<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090127_10-K_edgar_data_886982_0000950123-09-001278_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>5561464</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>2034296</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>67558</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2417729</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>186</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>31</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-09-001278.hdr.sgml : 20090127
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090127060328
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-09-001278
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		40
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081128
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090127
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090127

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000886982
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS & FLOTATION COMPANIES [6211]
		IRS NUMBER:				134019460
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1225

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-14965
		FILM NUMBER:		09546636

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		85 BROAD ST
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10004
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2129021000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		85 BROAD ST
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10004

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC/
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20010104

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 MnNcTtIUPjpfc+CCO1b3gUAmDTSsJ2DBHbw2WeON9wWJdG5o84sE9CQSXWU0APWz
 ZRkrySbP6p3FVl4DJfSgDw==

 0000950123-09-001278.txt : 20090127

10-K
 1
 y74032e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

10-K 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
    COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C.
    20549  

FORM 10-K   

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO
    SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
    1934  

The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc.  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

Delaware 

13-4019460 

(State or other jurisdiction
    of 
    incorporation or organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer 
    Identification No.)  

85 Broad Street 
    New York, N.Y. 

10004 
     (Zip Code)  

(Address of principal executive
    offices)  

(212) 902-1000  

(Registrant s telephone
    number, including area code)  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

Title of each class: 

Name of each exchange on which registered: 

Common stock, par value $.01 per share, and attached
    Shareholder Protection Rights 

New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, Each Representing 1/1,000th Interest in a
    Share of Floating Rate
     Non-Cumulative 
    Preferred Stock, Series A 

New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, Each Representing 1/1,000th Interest in a
    Share of 6.20%
     Non-Cumulative 
    Preferred Stock, Series B 

New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, Each Representing 1/1,000th Interest in a
    Share of Floating Rate
     Non-Cumulative 
    Preferred Stock, Series C 

New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, Each Representing 1/1,000th Interest in a
    Share of Floating Rate
     Non-Cumulative 
    Preferred Stock, Series D 

New York Stock Exchange 

5.793%
     Fixed-to-Floating 
    Rate Normal Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital Securities of
    Goldman Sachs Capital II (and Registrant s guarantee with
    respect thereto) 

New York Stock Exchange 

Floating Rate Normal Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital
    Securities of Goldman Sachs Capital III (and Registrant s
    guarantee with respect thereto) 

New York Stock Exchange 

Medium-Term 
    Notes, Series B, Index-Linked Notes due February 2013;
    Index-Linked Notes due April 2013; Index-Linked Notes due
    May 2013; Index-Linked Notes due 2010; and Index-Linked
    Notes due 2011 

NYSE Alternext US 

Medium-Term 
    Notes, Series B, 7.35% Notes due 2009; 7.80% Notes due
    2010; and Floating Rate Notes due 2011 

New York Stock Exchange 

Medium-Term 
    Notes, Series A, Index-Linked Notes due 2037 of GS Finance
    Corp. (and Registrant s guarantee with respect thereto) 

NYSE Arca 

Medium-Term 
    Notes, Series B, Index-Linked Notes due 2037 

NYSE Arca 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: None 

Indicate
    by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer,
    as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.

Yes          No     

Indicate
    by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports
    pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.

Yes          No     

Indicate
    by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
    reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes          No     

Indicate
    by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
    Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K.      

Indicate
    by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated
    filer, an accelerated filer, a
     non-accelerated 
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated
    filer          Accelerated
    filer           Non-accelerated 
    filer (Do not check if a smaller reporting
    company)          Smaller
    reporting
    company     

Indicate
    by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as
    defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act).
    Yes          No     

As of
    May 30, 2008, the aggregate market value of the common
    stock of the registrant held by
     non-affiliates 
    of the registrant was approximately $68.2 billion.

As of
    January 16, 2009, there were 461,784,433 shares
    of the registrant s common stock outstanding.

Documents
    incorporated by reference:   Portions of The
    Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. s Proxy Statement for its 2009
    Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on
    May 8, 2009 are incorporated by reference in the
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    in response to Part III, Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC.  

ANNUAL REPORT ON
     FORM 10-K 
    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 28, 2008 

INDEX 

Page 

Form 10-K Item
    Number:  

No.  

PART I  

1 

Item 1. 

Business 

1

Introduction 

1

Cautionary Statement Pursuant to the
    U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 

2

Segment Operating Results 

3

Where We Conduct Business 

4

Business Segments 

5

Global Investment Research 

14

Business Continuity and Information Security 

15

Employees 

15

Competition 

15

Regulation 

17

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors 

27

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

40

Item 2. 

Properties 

40

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings 

41

Item 4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders 

50

Executive Officers of The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc 

51

PART II  

53 

Item 5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities 

53

Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data 

54

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

55

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk 

127

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

128

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

219

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures 

219

Item 9B. 

Other Information 

219

PART III  

220 

Item 10. 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance 

220

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation 

220

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

220

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
    and Director Independence 

221

Item 14. 

Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

221

PART IV  

222 

Item 15. 

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

222

SIGNATURES 

II-1

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

II-2

EX-3.1: RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION    
     EX-4.5: FORM OF FLOATING RATE SENIOR DEBT SECURITY (TLGP)    
     EX-4.6: FORM OF FIXED RATE SENIOR DEBT SECURITY (TLGP)    
     EX-4.7: FORM OF FLOATING RATE MEDIUM-TERM NOTE, SERIES D (TLGP)    
     EX-4.8: FORM OF FIXED RATE MEDIUM-TERM NOTE, SERIES D (TLGP)    
     EX-10.1: AMENDED AND RESTATED STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN    
     EX-10.36: FORM OF YEAR-END OPTION AWARD AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.37: FORM OF YEAR-END RSU AWARD AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.39: FORM OF YEAR-END RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (FRENCH ALTERNATIVE AWARD)    
     EX-10.41: FORM OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR OPTION AWARD AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.42: FORM OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR RSU AWARD AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.43: DESCRIPTION OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR COMPENSATION    
     EX-10.49: FORM OF SIGNATURE CARD FOR EQUITY AWARDS    
     EX-10.58: FORM OF LETTER AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.59: GENERAL GUARANTEE AGREEMENT - GS BANK EUROPE    
     EX-10.60: GUARANTEE AGREEMENT - GS BANK USA    
     EX-10.61: COLLATERAL AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.62: FORM OF PERFORMANCE-BASED ONE-TIME RSU AWARD AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.63: FORM OF MAKE-WHOLE ONE-TIME RSU AWARD AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.64: FORM OF INCENTIVE ONE-TIME RSU AWARD AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.65: FORM OF YEAR-END SUPPLEMENTAL RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (FRANCE)    
     EX-10.66: FORM OF SIGNATURE CARD FOR EQUITY AWARDS (ASIA EX CHINA)    
     EX-10.67: FORM OF SIGNATURE CARD FOR EQUITY AWARDS (CHINA)    
     EX-10.68: AMENDMENTS TO CERTAIN EQUITY AWARD AGREEMENTS    
     EX-10.69: AMENDMENTS TO CERTAIN NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR EQUITY AWARD AGREEMENTS    
     EX-12.1: STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF RATIOS    
     EX-21.1: LIST OF SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES    
     EX-23.1: CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
     EX-31.1: RULE 13A-14(A) CERTIFICATIONS    
     EX-32.1: SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS    
     EX-99.1: REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    

Table of Contents   

PART I  

Item 1.    

Business  

Introduction  

Goldman Sachs is a bank holding company and a leading global
    investment banking, securities and investment management firm
    that provides a wide range of services worldwide to a
    substantial and diversified client base that includes
    corporations, financial institutions, governments and
     high-net-worth 
    individuals. Goldman Sachs is the successor to a commercial
    paper business founded in 1869 by Marcus Goldman. On
    May 7, 1999, we converted from a partnership to a
    corporation and completed an initial public offering of our
    common stock. On September 21, 2008, The Goldman Sachs
    Group, Inc. (Group Inc.) became a bank holding company regulated
    by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal
    Reserve Board) under the U.S. Bank Holding Company Act of
    1956 (BHC Act). Our depository institution subsidiary, Goldman
    Sachs Bank USA (GS Bank USA), became a New York State-chartered
    bank on November 28, 2008.

Our activities are divided into three segments:
    (i) Investment Banking, (ii) Trading and Principal
    Investments and (iii) Asset Management and Securities
    Services.

All references to 2008, 2007 and 2006 refer to our fiscal years
    ended, or the dates, as the context requires,
    November 28, 2008, November 30, 2007 and
    November 24, 2006, respectively. When we use the terms
     Goldman Sachs,   the firm,   we, 
     us  and  our,  we mean The Goldman Sachs
    Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated
    subsidiaries. References herein to our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    are to our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 28, 2008.

On December 15, 2008, our Board of Directors approved
    a change in our fiscal year-end from the last Friday of November
    to the last Friday of December. The change is effective for our
    2009 fiscal year. Our 2009 fiscal year began
    December 27, 2008 and will end
    December 25, 2009, resulting in a
     one-month 
    transition period that began November 29, 2008 and
    ended December 26, 2008. Information on this
     one-month 
    transition period will be included in our Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the three months ended March 27, 2009.

Financial information concerning our business segments and
    geographic regions for each of 2008, 2007 and 2006 is set forth
    in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations,  the consolidated
    financial statements and the notes thereto, and the supplemental
    financial information, which are in Part II, Items 7,
    7A and 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Our internet address is  www.gs.com  and the investor
    relations section of our web site is located at
     www.gs.com/shareholders . We make available free of
    charge, on or through the investor relations section of our web
    site, annual reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q 
    and current reports on
     Form 8-K 
    and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the U.S. Securities Exchange
    Act of 1934 (Exchange Act), as well as proxy statements, as soon
    as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
    material with, or furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and
    Exchange Commission. Also posted on our web site, and available
    in print upon request of any shareholder to our Investor
    Relations Department, are our certificate of incorporation and
    by-laws, charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation
    Committee, and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee,
    our Policy Regarding Director Independence Determinations, our
    Policy on Reporting of Concerns Regarding Accounting and Other
    Matters, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and our Code of
    Business Conduct and Ethics governing our directors, officers
    and employees. Within the time period required by the SEC and
    the New York Stock Exchange, we will post on our web site any
    amendment to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and any
    waiver applicable to any executive officer, director or senior
    financial officer (as defined in the Code). In addition, our web
    site includes information concerning purchases and sales of our
    equity securities by our executive officers and directors, as
    well as disclosure relating to certain
     non-GAAP 
    financial measures (as defined in the SEC s
    Regulation G) that we may make public orally,
    telephonically, by webcast, by broadcast or by similar means
    from time to time.

Our Investor Relations Department can be contacted at The
    Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., 85 Broad Street, 17th Floor, New
    York, New York 10004, Attn: Investor Relations, telephone:
     212-902-0300, 
     e-mail: 
     gs-investor-relations@gs.com .

1

Table of Contents   

Cautionary
    Statement Pursuant to the U.S. Private Securities
    Litigation Reform Act of 1995  

We have included or incorporated by reference in our Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    and from time to time our management may make, statements that
    may constitute  forward-looking statements  within the
    meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking
    statements are not historical facts but instead represent only
    our beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their
    nature, are inherently uncertain and outside our control. These
    statements include statements other than historical information
    or statements of current condition and may relate to our future
    plans and objectives and results, among other things, and may
    also include our belief regarding the effect of various legal
    proceedings, as set forth under  Legal Proceedings  in
    Part I, Item 3 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    as well as statements about the objectives and effectiveness of
    our risk management and liquidity policies, statements about
    trends in or growth opportunities for our businesses, statements
    about our future status, activities or reporting under
    U.S. banking regulation, and statements about our
    investment banking transaction backlog, in Part II,
    Item 7 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    By identifying these statements for you in this manner, we are
    alerting you to the possibility that our actual results and
    financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from the
    anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these
    forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause
    our actual results and financial condition to differ from those
    indicated in the forward-looking statements include, among
    others, those discussed below and under  Risk Factors 
    in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

In the case of statements about our investment banking
    transaction backlog, such statements are subject to the risk
    that the terms of these transactions may be modified or that
    they may not be completed at all; therefore, the net revenues,
    if any, that we actually earn from these transactions may
    differ, possibly materially, from those currently expected.
    Important factors that could result in a modification of the
    terms of a transaction or a transaction not being completed
    include, in the case of underwriting transactions, a decline or
    continued weakness in general economic conditions, outbreak of
    hostilities, volatility in the securities markets generally or
    an adverse development with respect to the issuer of the
    securities and, in the case of financial advisory transactions,
    a decline in the securities markets, an inability to obtain
    adequate financing, an adverse development with respect to a
    party to the transaction or a failure to obtain a required
    regulatory approval. For a discussion of other important factors
    that could adversely affect our investment banking transactions,
    see  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of our
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

2

Table of Contents   

Segment Operating
    Results 
       (in
    millions)

(1)   

Operating expenses include net
    provisions for a number of litigation and regulatory proceedings
    of $(4) million, $37 million and $45 million for the
    years ended November 2008, November 2007 and
    November 2006, respectively, that have not been allocated
    to our segments.

3

Table of Contents   

Where We Conduct
    Business  

As of November 28, 2008, we operated offices in over
    30 countries and 43% of our 30,067 employees were based outside
    the Americas (which includes the countries in North and South
    America). In 2008, we derived 30% of our net revenues outside of
    the Americas. See geographic information in Note 18 to the
    consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8
    of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Our clients are located worldwide, and we are an active
    participant in financial markets around the world. We have
    developed and continue to build strong investment banking
    relationships in new and developing markets. We also continue to
    expand our presence throughout these markets to invest
    strategically when opportunities arise and to work more closely
    with our private wealth and asset management clients in these
    regions. Our global reach is illustrated by the following:

we are a member of and an active participant in most of the
    world s major stock, options and futures exchanges and
    marketplaces;

we are a primary dealer in many of the largest government bond
    markets around the world;

we have interbank dealer status in currency markets around the
    world;

we are a member of or have relationships with major commodities
    exchanges worldwide; and

we have commercial banking or deposit-taking institutions
    organized or operating in the United States, the United Kingdom,
    Ireland, Brazil, Switzerland, Germany, France, Russia and South
    Korea.

Our businesses are supported by our Global Investment Research
    division, which, as of November 2008, provided research
    coverage of over 3,250 companies worldwide and over 45 national
    economies, and maintained a presence in locations around the
    world.

We continue to expand our geographic reach. For example, in
    recent years we have opened offices in Mumbai, Moscow, Sao
    Paulo, Dubai, Qatar, Riyadh and Tel Aviv, become licensed as a
     broker-dealer 
    in Russia, India and China, opened banks in Brazil, Ireland and
    Russia and entered into the asset management business in South
    Korea and India.

4

Table of Contents   

Business
    Segments  

The primary products and activities of our business segments are
    set forth in the following chart:

Business
    Segment/ Component   

Primary Products and
    Activities  

Investment Banking: 

Financial Advisory  

Mergers and acquisitions advisory services

Financial restructuring advisory services

Underwriting  

Equity and debt underwriting

Trading and Principal Investments: 

Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities  

Commodities and commodity derivatives,
    including power generation and related activities

Credit products, including trading and
    investing in credit derivatives, investment-grade corporate
    securities, high-yield securities, bank and secured loans,
    municipal securities, emerging market and distressed debt,
    public and private equity securities and real estate

Currencies and currency derivatives

Interest rate products, including interest
    rate derivatives, global government securities and money market
    instruments, including matched book positions

Mortgage-related securities and loan products
    and other asset-backed instruments

Equities  

Equity securities and derivatives

Securities, futures and options clearing
    services

Market-making and specialist activities in
    equity securities and options

Insurance activities

Principal Investments  

Principal investments in connection with
    merchant banking activities

Investment in the ordinary shares of
    Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited

Asset Management and Securities Services: 

Asset Management  

Investment advisory services, financial
    planning and investment products (primarily through separately
    managed accounts and commingled vehicles) across all major asset
    classes, including money markets, fixed income, equities and
    alternative investments (including hedge funds, private equity,
    real estate, currencies, commodities and asset allocation
    strategies), for institutional and individual investors
    (including
     high-net-worth 
    clients, as well as retail clients through third-party channels)

Management of merchant banking funds

Securities Services  

Prime brokerage

Financing services

Securities lending

5

Table of Contents   

Investment
    Banking  

Investment Banking represented 23% of 2008 net revenues. We
    provide a broad range of investment banking services to a
    diverse group of corporations, financial institutions,
    investment funds, governments and individuals and seek to
    develop and maintain
     long-term 
    relationships with these clients as their lead investment bank.

Our current structure, which is organized by regional, industry
    and product groups, seeks to combine client-focused investment
    bankers with execution and industry expertise. We continually
    assess and adapt our organization to meet the demands of our
    clients in each geographic region. Through our commitment to
    teamwork, we believe that we provide services in an integrated
    fashion for the benefit of our clients.

Our goal is to make available to our clients the entire
    resources of the firm in a seamless fashion, with investment
    banking serving as  front of the house.  To accomplish
    this objective, we focus on coordination among our equity and
    debt underwriting activities and our corporate risk and
    liability management activities. This coordination is intended
    to assist our investment banking clients in managing their asset
    and liability exposures and their capital.

Our Investment Banking segment is divided into two components:
    Financial Advisory and Underwriting.

Financial
    Advisory   

Financial Advisory includes advisory assignments with respect to
    mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense
    activities, restructurings and
     spin-offs. 
    Our mergers and acquisitions capabilities are evidenced by our
    significant share of assignments in large, complex transactions
    for which we provide multiple services, including
      one-stop  
    acquisition financing and cross-border structuring expertise, as
    well as services in other areas of the firm, such as interest
    rate and currency hedging. In particular, a significant number
    of the loan commitments and bank and bridge loan facilities that
    we enter into arise in connection with our advisory assignments.

Underwriting   

Underwriting includes public offerings and private placements of
    a wide range of securities and other financial instruments,
    including common and preferred stock, convertible and
    exchangeable securities,
     investment-grade 
    debt,
     high-yield 
    debt, sovereign and emerging market debt, municipal debt, bank
    loans,
     asset-backed 
    securities and real estate-related securities, such as
     mortgage-related 
    securities and the securities of real estate investment trusts.

Equity Underwriting.   Equity underwriting has
    been a
     long-term 
    core strength of Goldman Sachs. As with mergers and
    acquisitions, we have been particularly successful in winning
    mandates for large, complex transactions. We believe our
    leadership in worldwide initial public offerings and worldwide
    public common stock offerings reflects our expertise in complex
    transactions, prior experience and distribution capabilities.

Debt Underwriting.   We engage in the
    underwriting and origination of various types of debt
    instruments, including
     investment-grade 
    debt securities,
     high-yield 
    debt securities, bank and bridge loans and emerging market debt
    securities, which may be issued by, among others, corporate,
    sovereign and agency issuers. In addition, we underwrite and
    originate structured securities, which include
     mortgage-related 
    securities and other
     asset-backed 
    securities and collateralized debt obligations.

6

Table of Contents   

Trading and
    Principal Investments  

Trading and Principal Investments represented 41% of 2008 net
    revenues. Trading and Principal Investments facilitates client
    transactions with a diverse group of corporations, financial
    institutions, investment funds, governments and individuals and
    takes proprietary positions through market making in, trading of
    and investing in fixed income and equity products, currencies,
    commodities and derivatives on these products. In addition, we
    engage in
     market-making 
    and specialist activities on equities and options exchanges, and
    we clear client transactions on major stock, options and futures
    exchanges worldwide. In connection with our merchant banking and
    other investing activities, we make principal investments
    directly and through funds that we raise and manage.

To meet the needs of our clients, Trading and Principal
    Investments is diversified across a wide range of products. We
    believe our willingness and ability to take risk to facilitate
    client transactions distinguishes us from many of our
    competitors and substantially enhances our client relationships.

Our Trading and Principal Investments segment is divided into
    three components: Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities;
    Equities; and Principal Investments.

Fixed Income,
    Currency and Commodities and Equities   

Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities (FICC) and Equities are
    large and diversified operations through which we engage in a
    variety of client-driven and proprietary trading and investing
    activities.

In our client-driven businesses, FICC and Equities strive to
    deliver
     high-quality 
    service by offering broad
     market-making 
    and market knowledge to our clients on a global basis. In
    addition, we use our expertise to take positions in markets, by
    committing capital and taking risk, to facilitate client
    transactions and to provide liquidity. Our willingness to make
    markets, commit capital and take risk in a broad range of fixed
    income, currency, commodity and equity products and their
    derivatives is crucial to our client relationships and to
    support our underwriting business by providing secondary market
    liquidity.

We generate trading net revenues from our client-driven
    businesses in three ways:

First, in large, highly liquid markets, we undertake a high
    volume of transactions for modest spreads and fees.

Second, by capitalizing on our strong relationships and capital
    position, we undertake transactions in less liquid markets where
    spreads and fees are generally larger.

Finally, we structure and execute transactions that address
    complex client needs.

Our FICC and Equities businesses operate in close coordination
    to provide clients with services and cross-market knowledge and
    expertise.

In our proprietary activities in both FICC and Equities, we
    assume a variety of risks and devote resources to identify,
    analyze and benefit from these exposures. We capitalize on our
    analytical models to analyze information and make informed
    trading judgments, and we seek to benefit from perceived
    disparities in the value of assets in the trading markets and
    from macroeconomic and issuer-specific trends.

7

Table of Contents   

FICC   

We make markets in and trade interest rate and credit products,
     mortgage-related 
    securities and loan products and other
     asset-backed 
    instruments, currencies and commodities, structure and enter
    into a wide variety of derivative transactions, and engage in
    proprietary trading and investing. FICC has five principal
    businesses: commodities; credit products; currencies; interest
    rate products, including money market instruments; and
     mortgage-related 
    securities and loan products and other
     asset-backed 
    instruments.

Commodities.   We enter into trades with our
    clients in, make markets in, and trade for our own account a
    wide variety of commodities, commodity derivatives and interests
    in commodity-related assets, including oil and oil products,
    metals, natural gas and electricity, and forest products. As
    part of our commodities business, we acquire and dispose of
    interests in, and engage in the development and operation of,
    electric power generation facilities and related activities.

Credit Products.   We offer to and trade for our
    clients a broad array of credit and
     credit-linked 
    products all over the world, including credit derivatives,
     investment-grade 
    corporate securities,
     high-yield 
    securities, bank and secured loans (origination and trading),
    municipal securities, and emerging market and distressed debt.
    For example, we enter, as principal, into complex structured
    transactions designed to meet client needs.

In addition, we provide credit through bridge and other loan
    facilities to a broad range of clients. Commitments that are
    extended for contingent acquisition financing are often intended
    to be
     short-term 
    in nature, as borrowers often seek to replace them with other
    funding sources. As part of our ongoing credit origination
    activities, we may seek to reduce our credit risk on commitments
    by syndicating all or substantial portions of commitments to
    other investors or, upon funding, by securitizing the positions
    through investment vehicles sold to other investors.
    Underwriting fees from syndications of these commitments are
    recorded in debt underwriting in our Investment Banking segment.
    However, to the extent that we recognize losses on these
    commitments, such losses are recorded within our Trading and
    Principal Investments segment, net of any related underwriting
    fees. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Contractual Obligations and Commitments  in Part II,
    Item 7 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for additional information on our commitments.

Our credit products business includes making significant
     long-term 
    and
     short-term 
    investments for our own account (sometimes investing together
    with our merchant banking funds) in a broad array of asset
    classes (including distressed debt) globally. We
    opportunistically invest in debt and equity securities and
    secured loans, and in private equity, real estate and other
    assets.

Currencies.   We act as a dealer in foreign
    exchange and trade for our clients and ourselves in most
    currencies on exchanges and in cash and derivative markets
    globally.

Interest Rate Products.   We trade and make
    markets in a variety of interest rate products, including
    interest rate swaps, options and other derivatives, and
    government bonds, as well as money market instruments, such as
    commercial paper, treasury bills, repurchase agreements and
    other highly liquid securities and instruments. This business
    includes our matched book, which consists of
     short-term 
    collateralized financing transactions.

Mortgage Business.   We make markets in and
    trade for our clients and ourselves commercial and residential
     mortgage-related 
    securities and loan products (including agency prime and
    non-agency prime,
     Alt-A  and
    subprime mortgages) and other
     asset-backed 
    and derivative instruments. We acquire positions in these
    products for proprietary trading purposes as well as for
    securitization or syndication. We also originate and service
    commercial and residential mortgages.

8

Table of Contents   

Equities   

We make markets in and trade equities and
     equity-related 
    products, structure and enter into equity derivative
    transactions, and engage in proprietary trading. We generate
    commissions from executing and clearing client transactions on
    major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide through our
    Equities client franchise and clearing activities.

Equities includes two principal businesses: our client franchise
    business and principal strategies. We also engage in specialist
    and insurance activities.

Client Franchise Business.   Our client
    franchise business includes primarily client-driven activities
    in the shares, equity derivatives and convertible securities
    markets. These activities also include clearing client
    transactions on major stock, options and futures exchanges
    worldwide, as well as our options specialist and
     market-making 
    businesses. Our client franchise business increasingly involves
    providing our clients with access to electronic
      low-touch  
    equity trading platforms, and electronic trades account for the
    majority of our client trading activity in this business.
    However, a majority of our net revenues in this business
    continues to be derived from our traditional
      high-touch  
    handling of more complex trades. We expect both types of trading
    activities to remain important components of our client
    franchise business.

We trade equity securities and
     equity-related 
    products, including convertible securities, options, futures and
     over-the-counter 
    (OTC) derivative instruments, on a global basis as an agent, as
    a market maker or otherwise as a principal. As a principal, we
    facilitate client transactions, often by committing capital and
    taking risk, to provide liquidity to clients with large blocks
    of stocks or options. For example, we are active in the
    execution of large block trades. We also execute transactions as
    agent and offer clients direct electronic access to trading
    markets.

In the options and futures markets, we structure, distribute and
    execute derivatives on market indices, industry groups,
    financial measures and individual company stocks to facilitate
    client transactions and our proprietary activities. We develop
    strategies and render advice with respect to portfolio hedging
    and restructuring and asset allocation transactions. We also
    create specially tailored instruments to enable sophisticated
    investors to undertake hedging strategies and to establish or
    liquidate investment positions. We are one of the leading
    participants in the trading and development of equity derivative
    instruments. In options, we are a specialist
     and/or 
    market maker on the International Securities Exchange, the
    Chicago Board Options Exchange, NYSE Arca, the Boston Options
    Exchange, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, NYSE Alternext US and
    the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.

Principal Strategies.   Our principal strategies
    business is a multi-strategy investment business that invests
    and trades our capital across global markets. Investment
    strategies include fundamental equities and relative value
    trading (which involves trading strategies designed to take
    advantage of perceived discrepancies in the relative value of
    financial instruments, including equity,
     equity-related 
    and debt instruments), event-driven investments (which focus on
    event-oriented special situations such as corporate
    restructurings, bankruptcies, recapitalizations, mergers and
    acquisitions, and legal and regulatory events), convertible bond
    trading, various types of volatility trading and principal
    finance.

At the start of our first fiscal quarter of 2008, we reassigned
    approximately
     one-half  of
    the traders and other personnel and transferred approximately
     one-half  of
    the firm s assets comprising our principal strategies
    business to our asset management business in an effort to
    strengthen and diversify our asset management offerings. These
    assets are invested in an alternative investment fund managed by
    our asset management business.

9

Table of Contents   

Specialist Activities.   Our specialist
    activities business consists of our stock and
     exchange-traded 
    funds (ETF) specialist and
     market-making 
    businesses. We engage in specialist and
     market-making 
    activities on equities exchanges. In the United States, we are
    one of the leading designated market makers for stocks traded on
    the NYSE. For ETFs, we are registered market makers on NYSE Arca.

Insurance Activities.   Through our insurance
    subsidiaries, we engage in a range of insurance and reinsurance
    businesses, including buying, originating
     and/or 
    reinsuring variable annuity and life insurance contracts,
    reinsuring property catastrophe and residential homeowner risks
    and providing power interruption coverage to power generating
    facilities.

Principal
    Investments   

Principal Investments primarily represents net revenues from
    three primary sources: returns on corporate and real estate
    investments; overrides on corporate and real estate investments
    made by merchant banking funds that we manage; and our
    investment in the ordinary shares of Industrial and Commercial
    Bank of China Limited (ICBC).

Returns on Corporate and Real Estate
    Investments.   As of November 2008, the
    aggregate carrying value of our principal investments held
    directly or through our merchant banking funds, excluding our
    investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC, was
    $15.13 billion, comprised of corporate principal
    investments with an aggregate carrying value of
    $12.16 billion and real estate investments with an
    aggregate carrying value of $2.97 billion. In addition, as
    of November 2008, we had outstanding unfunded equity
    capital commitments of up to $13.47 billion, comprised of
    corporate principal investment commitments of
    $10.39 billion and real estate investment commitments of
    $3.08 billion.

Overrides.   Consists of the increased share of
    the income and gains derived from our merchant banking funds
    when the return on a fund s investments over the life of
    the fund exceeds certain threshold returns (typically referred
    to as an override). Overrides are recognized in net revenues
    when all material contingencies have been resolved.

ICBC.   Our investment in the ordinary shares of
    ICBC was acquired on April 28, 2006. The ordinary
    shares acquired from ICBC are subject to transfer restrictions
    that, among other things, prohibit any sale, disposition or
    other transfer until April 28, 2009. From
    April 28, 2009 to October 20, 2009, we may
    transfer up to 50% of the aggregate ordinary shares of ICBC that
    we owned as of October 20, 2006. We may transfer the
    remaining shares after October 20, 2009. As of
    November 2008, the fair value of our investment in the
    ordinary shares of ICBC was $5.50 billion. A portion of our
    interest is held by investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs.
    For further information regarding our investment in the ordinary
    shares of ICBC, see  Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Critical Accounting Policies  
    Fair Value   Cash Instruments  in Part II,
    Item 7 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

10

Table of Contents   

Asset Management
    and Securities Services  

Asset Management and Securities Services represented 36% of 2008
    net revenues. Our asset management business provides investment
    advisory and financial planning services and offers investment
    products (primarily through separately managed accounts and
    commingled vehicles) across all major asset classes to a diverse
    group of institutions and individuals worldwide and primarily
    generates revenues in the form of management and incentive fees.
    Securities Services provides prime brokerage services, financing
    services and securities lending services to institutional
    clients, including hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds and
    foundations, and to
     high-net-worth 
    individuals worldwide, and generates revenues primarily in the
    form of interest rate spreads or fees.

Our Asset Management and Securities Services segment is divided
    into two components: Asset Management and Securities Services.

Asset
    Management   

We offer a broad array of investment strategies, advice and
    planning. We provide asset management services and offer
    investment products (primarily through separately managed
    accounts and commingled vehicles, such as mutual funds and
    private investment funds) across all major asset classes: money
    markets, fixed income, equities and alternative investments
    (including hedge funds, private equity, real estate, currencies,
    commodities and asset allocation strategies). Through our
    subsidiary, The Ayco Company, L.P., we also provide fee-based
    financial counseling and financial education in the United
    States.

Assets under management (AUM) typically generate fees as a
    percentage of asset value, which is affected by investment
    performance and by inflows and redemptions. The fees that we
    charge vary by asset class, as do our related expenses. In
    certain circumstances, we are also entitled to receive incentive
    fees based on a percentage of a fund s return or when the
    return on assets under management exceeds specified benchmark
    returns or other performance targets. Incentive fees are
    recognized when the performance period ends and they are no
    longer subject to adjustment. We have numerous incentive fee
    arrangements, many of which have annual performance periods that
    end on December 31. For that reason, incentive fees have
    been seasonally weighted to our first quarter.

AUM includes our mutual funds, alternative investment funds and
    separately managed accounts for institutional and individual
    investors. Alternative investments include our merchant banking
    funds, which generate revenues as described below under
        Management 
    of Merchant Banking Funds.  AUM includes assets in
    clients  brokerage accounts to the extent that they
    generate fees based on the assets in the accounts rather than
    commissions on transactional activity in the accounts.

AUM does not include assets in brokerage accounts that generate
    commissions,
     mark-ups  and
    spreads based on transactional activity, or our own investments
    in funds that we manage. Net revenues from these assets are
    included in our Trading and Principal Investments segment. AUM
    also does not include
     non-fee-paying 
    assets, including interest-bearing deposits held through our
    bank depository institution subsidiaries.

11

Table of Contents   

The amount of AUM is set forth in the graph below. In the
    following graph, as well as in the following tables,
    substantially all assets under management are valued as of
    November 30:

Assets Under
    Management 
       (in
    billions)

The following table sets forth AUM by asset class:

Assets Under
    Management by Asset Class 
       (in
    billions)

(1)   

Primarily includes hedge funds,
    private equity, real estate, currencies, commodities and asset
    allocation strategies.

12

Table of Contents   

Clients.   Our clients are institutions and
    individuals, including both
     high-net-worth 
    and retail investors. We access institutional and
     high-net-worth 
    clients through both direct and
     third-party 
    channels and retail clients primarily through
     third-party 
    channels. Our institutional clients include pension funds,
    governmental organizations, corporations, insurance companies,
    banks, foundations and endowments. In
     third-party 
    distribution channels, we distribute our mutual funds,
    alternative investment funds and separately managed accounts
    through brokerage firms, banks, insurance companies and other
    financial intermediaries. Our clients are located worldwide.

The table below sets forth the amount of AUM by distribution
    channel and client category:

Assets Under
    Management by Distribution Channel 
       (in
    billions)

Management of Merchant Banking Funds.   Goldman
    Sachs sponsors numerous corporate and real estate private
    investment funds. As of November 2008, the amount of AUM in
    these funds (including both funded amounts and unfunded
    commitments on which we earn fees) was $93 billion.

Our strategy with respect to these funds generally is to invest
    opportunistically to build a portfolio of investments that is
    diversified by industry, product type, geographic region, and
    transaction structure and type. Our corporate investment funds
    pursue, on a global basis,
     long-term 
    investments in equity and debt securities in privately
    negotiated transactions, leveraged buyouts, acquisitions and
    investments in funds managed by external parties. Our real
    estate investment funds invest in real estate operating
    companies, debt and equity interests in real estate assets, and
    other real estate-related investments. In addition, our merchant
    banking funds include funds that invest in infrastructure and
    infrastructure-related assets and companies on a global basis.

Merchant banking activities generate three primary revenue
    streams. First, we receive a management fee that is generally a
    percentage of a fund s committed capital, invested capital,
    total gross acquisition cost or asset value. These annual
    management fees are included in our Asset Management net
    revenues. Second, Goldman Sachs, as a substantial investor in
    some of these funds, is allocated its proportionate share of the
    funds  unrealized appreciation or depreciation arising from
    changes in fair value as well as gains and losses upon
    realization. Third, after a fund has achieved a minimum return
    for fund investors, we receive an increased share of the
    fund s income and gains that is a percentage of the income
    and gains from the fund s investments. The second and third
    of these revenue streams are included in Principal Investments
    within our Trading and Principal Investments segment.

13

Table of Contents   

Securities
    Services   

Securities Services provides prime brokerage services, financing
    services and securities lending services to institutional
    clients, including hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds and
    foundations, and to
     high-net-worth 
    individuals worldwide.

Prime brokerage services.   We offer prime
    brokerage services to our clients, allowing them the flexibility
    to trade with most brokers while maintaining a single source for
    financing and consolidated portfolio reports. Our prime
    brokerage business provides clearing and custody in 53 markets
    globally and provides consolidated multi-currency accounting and
    reporting, fund administration and other ancillary services.

Financing services.   A central element of our
    prime brokerage business involves providing financing to our
    clients for their securities trading activities through margin
    and securities loans that are collateralized by securities, cash
    or other acceptable collateral.

Securities lending services.   Securities
    lending services principally involve the borrowing and lending
    of securities to cover clients  and Goldman Sachs 
    short sales and otherwise to make deliveries into the market. In
    addition, we are an active participant in the
     broker-to-broker 
    securities lending business and the
     third-party 
    agency lending business. Net revenues in securities lending
    services are, as a general matter, weighted toward our second
    and third quarters each year due to seasonally higher activity
    levels in Europe.

Global Investment
    Research  

Global Investment Research provides fundamental research on
    companies, industries, economies, currencies and commodities and
    macro strategy research on a worldwide basis.

Global Investment Research employs a team approach that as of
    November 2008 provided research coverage of over 3,250
    companies worldwide and over 45 national economies. This is
    accomplished by the following departments:

The Equity Research Departments provide fundamental analysis,
    earnings forecasts and investment opinions for equity securities;

The Credit Research Department provides fundamental analysis,
    forecasts and investment opinions as to
     investment-grade 
    and
     high-yield 
    corporate bonds and credit derivatives; and

The Global ECS Department (formed in December 2008 through
    a consolidation of the Economic, Commodities and Strategy
    Research Departments) formulates macroeconomic forecasts for
    economic activity, foreign exchange and interest rates, provides
    research on the commodity markets, and provides equity market
    forecasts, opinions on both asset and industry sector
    allocation, equity trading strategies, credit trading strategies
    and options research.

Further information regarding research at Goldman Sachs is
    provided below under    Regulation  
    Regulations Applicable in and Outside the United States 
    and  Legal Proceedings   Research Independence
    Matters  in Part I, Item 3 of our Annual Report
    on
     Form 10-K. 

14

Table of Contents   

Business
    Continuity and Information Security  

Business continuity and information security are high priorities
    for Goldman Sachs. Our Business Continuity Program has been
    developed to provide reasonable assurance of business continuity
    in the event of disruptions at the firm s critical
    facilities and to comply with the regulatory requirements of the
    Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA). Because we are
    a bank holding company, our Business Continuity Program will be
    subject to review by the Federal Reserve Board. The key elements
    of the program are crisis management, people recovery
    facilities, business recovery, systems and data recovery, and
    process improvement. In the area of information security, we
    have developed and implemented a framework of principles,
    policies and technology to protect the information assets of the
    firm and our clients. Safeguards are applied to maintain the
    confidentiality, integrity and availability of information
    resources.

Employees  

Management believes that a major strength and principal reason
    for the success of Goldman Sachs is the quality and dedication
    of our people and the shared sense of being part of a team. We
    strive to maintain a work environment that fosters
    professionalism, excellence, diversity, cooperation among our
    employees worldwide and high standards of business ethics.

Instilling the Goldman Sachs culture in all employees is a
    continuous process, in which training plays an important part.
    All employees are offered the opportunity to participate in
    education and periodic seminars that we sponsor at various
    locations throughout the world. Another important part of
    instilling the Goldman Sachs culture is our employee review
    process. Employees are reviewed by supervisors, co-workers and
    employees they supervise in a
     360-degree 
    review process that is integral to our team approach.

As of November 2008, we had 30,067 employees, excluding
    4,671 employees of certain consolidated entities that are held
    for investment purposes only. Consolidated entities held for
    investment purposes are entities that are held strictly for
    capital appreciation, have a defined exit strategy and are
    engaged in activities that are not closely related to our
    principal businesses.

Competition  

The financial services industry   and all of our
    businesses   are intensely competitive, and we expect
    them to remain so. Our competitors are other entities that
    provide investment banking, securities and investment management
    services, as well as those entities that make investments in
    securities, commodities, derivatives, real estate, loans and
    other financial assets. These entities include brokers and
    dealers, investment banking firms, commercial banks, insurance
    companies, investment advisers, mutual funds, hedge funds,
    private equity funds and merchant banks. We compete with some of
    our competitors globally and with others on a regional, product
    or niche basis. Our competition is based on a number of factors,
    including transaction execution, our products and services,
    innovation, reputation and price.

We also face intense competition in attracting and retaining
    qualified employees. Our ability to continue to compete
    effectively in our businesses will depend upon our ability to
    attract new employees and retain and motivate our existing
    employees.

15

Table of Contents   

Over time, there has been substantial consolidation and
    convergence among companies in the financial services industry.
    This trend accelerated over the course of the past year as the
    credit crisis caused numerous mergers and asset acquisitions
    among industry participants. Many commercial banks and other
     broad-based 
    financial services firms have had the ability for some time to
    offer a wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and
    insurance to brokerage, asset management and investment banking
    services, which may enhance their competitive position. They
    also have had the ability to support investment banking and
    securities products with commercial banking, insurance and other
    financial services revenues in an effort to gain market share,
    which has resulted in pricing pressure in our investment banking
    and trading businesses and could result in pricing pressure in
    other of our businesses.

Moreover, we have faced, and expect to continue to face,
    pressure to retain market share by committing capital to
    businesses or transactions on terms that offer returns that may
    not be commensurate with their risks. In particular, corporate
    clients seek such commitments (such as agreements to participate
    in their commercial paper backstop or other loan facilities)
    from financial services firms in connection with investment
    banking and other assignments.

We provide these commitments primarily through GS Bank USA and
    its subsidiaries, including our William Street entities and
    Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. With respect to most of the
    William Street commitments, Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group,
    Inc. (SMFG) provides us with credit loss protection that is
    generally limited to 95% of the first loss we realize on
    approved loan commitments, up to a maximum of
    $1.00 billion. In addition, subject to the satisfaction of
    certain conditions, upon our request, SMFG will provide
    protection for 70% of additional losses on such commitments, up
    to a maximum of $1.13 billion, of which $375 million
    of protection has been provided as of November 2008. We
    also use other financial instruments to mitigate credit risks
    related to certain William Street commitments not covered by
    SMFG. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Contractual Obligations and Commitments  in Part II,
    Item 7 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    and Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for more information regarding the William Street entities and
    for a description of the credit loss protection provided by
    SMFG. An increasing number of our commitments in connection with
    investment banking and other assignments do not meet the
    criteria established for the William Street entities and do not
    benefit from the SMFG loss protection. These commitments are
    issued through GS Bank USA and its subsidiaries or our other
    subsidiaries.

The trend toward consolidation and convergence has significantly
    increased the capital base and geographic reach of some of our
    competitors. This trend has also hastened the globalization of
    the securities and other financial services markets. As a
    result, we have had to commit capital to support our
    international operations and to execute large global
    transactions. To take advantage of some of our most significant
    challenges and opportunities, we will have to compete
    successfully with financial institutions that are larger and
    better capitalized and that may have a stronger local presence
    and longer operating history outside the United States.

We have experienced intense price competition in some of our
    businesses in recent years. There has been considerable pressure
    in the pricing of block trades. Also, equity and debt
    underwriting discounts, as well as trading spreads, have been
    under pressure for a number of years and the ability to execute
    trades electronically, through the internet and through
    alternative trading systems, has increased the pressure on
    trading commissions. It appears that this trend toward
    electronic and other
      low-touch,  
     low-commission 
    trading will continue. We believe that we will continue to
    experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the
    future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by
    reducing prices.

16

Table of Contents   

Regulation  

Goldman Sachs, as a participant in the banking, securities,
    commodity futures and options and insurance industries, is
    subject to extensive regulation in the United States and the
    other countries in which we operate. See  Risk
    Factors   Our businesses and those of our clients are
    subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around the
    world  in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for a further discussion of the effect that regulation may have
    on our businesses. As a matter of public policy, regulatory
    bodies around the world are charged with safeguarding the
    integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with
    protecting the interests of clients participating in those
    markets, including depositors in U.S. depository
    institutions such as GS Bank USA. They are not, however,
    generally charged with protecting the interests of Goldman
    Sachs  shareholders or creditors.

On September 21, 2008, Group Inc. became a bank
    holding company under the BHC Act. As of that date, the Federal
    Reserve Board became the primary U.S. regulator of Group
    Inc., as a consolidated entity. Prior to
    September 21, 2008, Group Inc. was subject to
    regulation by the SEC as a Consolidated Supervised Entity (CSE)
    and was subject to
     group-wide 
    supervision and examination by the SEC and to minimum capital
    standards on a consolidated basis. On
    September 26, 2008, the SEC announced that it was
    ending the CSE program. Our principal
     U.S. broker-dealer, 
    Goldman, Sachs   Co. (GS Co.) remains subject to
    regulation by the SEC.

Banking
    Regulation  

Supervision
    and Regulation   

As a bank holding company under the BHC Act, Group Inc. is now
    subject to supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve
    Board. Under the system of  functional regulation 
    established under the BHC Act, the Federal Reserve Board
    supervises Group Inc., including all of its nonbank
    subsidiaries, as an  umbrella regulator  of the
    consolidated organization and generally defers to the primary
    U.S. regulators of Group Inc. s U.S. depository
    institution subsidiary, as applicable, and to the other
    U.S. regulators of Group Inc. s
     U.S. non-depository 
    institution subsidiaries that regulate certain activities of
    those subsidiaries. Such  functionally regulated 
     non-depository 
    institution subsidiaries include
     broker-dealers 
    registered with the SEC, insurance companies regulated by state
    insurance authorities, investment advisors registered with the
    SEC with respect to their investment advisory activities and
    entities regulated by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
    Commission (CFTC) with respect to certain futures-related
    activities.

Activities   

The BHC Act generally restricts us from engaging in business
    activities other than the business of banking and certain
    closely related activities. However, the BHC Act also grants a
    new bank holding company, such as Group Inc., two years from the
    date the entity becomes a bank holding company to comply with
    the restrictions on its activities imposed by the BHC Act with
    respect to any activities that it was engaged in when it became
    a bank holding company. We expect that this
     grandfather  right will allow us to continue to
    conduct our business substantially as we have in the past until
    at least September 22, 2010. In addition, under the
    BHC Act, we can apply to the Federal Reserve Board for up to
    three
     one-year 
    extensions.

Under the
     U.S. Gramm-Leach-Bliley 
    Act of 1999 (GLB Act), an eligible bank holding company may
    elect to become a  financial holding company. 
    Financial holding companies may engage in a broader range of
    financial and related activities than are permissible for bank
    holding companies as long as they continue to meet the
    eligibility requirements for financial holding companies. These
    activities include underwriting, dealing and making markets in
    securities, insurance underwriting and making merchant banking
    investments in nonfinancial companies. In addition, the GLB Act
    also allows a company that was not a bank holding company and
    becomes a financial holding company after
    November 12, 1999 to continue to engage in certain
    commodities activities that are otherwise

17

Table of Contents   

impermissible for bank holding companies if the company was
    engaged in any of these activities in the United States as of
    September 30, 1997 and if the assets held pursuant to
    these activities do not equal 5% or more of the consolidated
    assets of the bank holding company.

We intend to apply to elect to become a financial holding
    company under the GLB Act as soon as practicable. Our ability to
    achieve and maintain financial holding company status is
    dependent on a number of factors, including our
    U.S. depository institution subsidiaries continuing to
    qualify as  well capitalized  as described under
        Prompt 
    Corrective Action  below. We do not believe that any
    activities that are material to our current or currently
    proposed business would be impermissible activities for us as a
    financial holding company.

As a bank holding company, Group Inc. is required to obtain
    prior Federal Reserve Board approval before directly or
    indirectly acquiring more than 5% of any class of voting shares
    of any unaffiliated depository institution. In addition, as a
    bank holding company, we may generally engage in banking and
    other financial activities abroad, including investing in and
    owning
     non-U.S. banks, 
    if those activities and investments do not exceed certain limits
    and, in some cases, if we have obtained the prior approval of
    the Federal Reserve Board.

Capital
    Requirements   

We are subject to regulatory capital requirements administered
    by the U.S. federal banking agencies. Our bank depository
    institution subsidiaries, including GS Bank USA, are subject to
    similar capital guidelines. Under the Federal Reserve
    Board s capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory
    framework for prompt corrective action (PCA) that is applicable
    to GS Bank USA, Goldman Sachs and its bank depository
    institution subsidiaries must meet specific capital guidelines
    that involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and
    certain
     off-balance-sheet 
    items as calculated under regulatory reporting practices.
    Goldman Sachs and its bank depository institution
    subsidiaries  capital amounts, as well as GS Bank
    USA s PCA classification, are also subject to qualitative
    judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings
    and other factors. We anticipate reporting capital ratios as
    follows:

Before we became a bank holding company, we were subject to
    capital guidelines by the SEC as a CSE that were generally
    consistent with those set out in the Revised Framework for the
    International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital
    Standards issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
    (Basel II). We currently compute and report our firmwide capital
    ratios in accordance with the Basel II requirements as
    applicable to us when we were regulated as a CSE for the purpose
    of assessing the adequacy of our capital. We expect to continue
    to report to investors for a period of time our Basel II capital
    ratios as applicable to us when we were regulated as a CSE.

The regulatory capital guidelines currently applicable to bank
    holding companies are based on the Capital Accord of the Basel
    Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel I), with Basel II to be
    phased in over time. We are currently working with the Federal
    Reserve Board to put in place the appropriate reporting and
    compliance mechanisms and methodologies to allow reporting of
    the Basel I capital ratios as of the end of March 2009.

In addition, we are currently working to implement the Basel II
    framework as applicable to us as a bank holding company (as
    opposed to as a CSE). U.S. banking regulators have
    incorporated the Basel II framework into the existing
     risk-based 
    capital requirements by requiring that internationally active
    banking organizations, such as Group Inc., transition to Basel
    II over the next several years.

Under the Basel II framework as it applied to us when we were
    regulated as a CSE, we evaluate our Tier 1 Capital and
    Total Allowable Capital as a percentage of
     Risk-Weighted 
    Assets (RWAs). RWAs are calculated based on the level of market
    risk, credit risk and operational risk associated with our
    business activities, using methodologies generally consistent
    with those set out in Basel II. Our

18

Table of Contents   

Tier 1 Capital consists of common shareholders 
    equity, qualifying preferred stock (including the cumulative
    preferred stock issued by Group Inc. to the U.S. Department
    of the Treasury s (U.S. Treasury) TARP Capital
    Purchase Program and our junior subordinated debt issued to
    trusts, less deductions for goodwill, disallowed intangible
    assets and other items. Our Total Allowable Capital consists of
    our Tier 1 Capital and our qualifying subordinated debt,
    less certain deductions. Additional information on the
    calculation of our Tier 1 Capital, Total Allowable Capital
    and RWAs under the Basel II framework as it applied to us
    as a CSE is set forth in  Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Equity Capital   Consolidated
    Capital Requirements,  and in Note 17 to the
    consolidated financial statements, which are in Part II,
    Items 7 and 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    As of November 2008, our Total Capital Ratio (Total
    Allowable Capital as a percentage of RWAs) was 18.9% and our
    Tier 1 Ratio (Tier 1 Capital as a percentage of RWAs)
    was 15.6%, in each case calculated under the Basel II framework
    as it applied to us when we were regulated as a CSE.

As noted above, we are currently working to implement the Basel
    II framework as applicable to us as a bank holding company (as
    opposed to as a CSE). During a parallel period, we anticipate
    that Group Inc. s capital calculations computed under both
    the Basel I rules and the Basel II rules will be reported to the
    Federal Reserve Board for examination and compliance for at
    least four consecutive quarterly periods. Once the parallel
    period and subsequent three-year transition period are
    successfully completed, Group Inc. will utilize the Basel II
    framework as its means of capital adequacy assessment,
    measurement and reporting and will discontinue use of Basel I.
    Internationally, the Basel II framework was implemented in
    several countries during the second half of 2007 and in 2008,
    while others will begin implementation in 2009. The Basel II
    rules therefore also apply to certain of our operations in
     non-U.S. jurisdictions. 

The Federal Reserve Board also has established minimum leverage
    ratio guidelines. We were not subject to these guidelines before
    becoming a bank holding company and, accordingly, we are
    currently working with the Federal Reserve Board to finalize our
    methodology for calculating this ratio. The Tier 1 leverage
    ratio is defined as Tier 1 capital (as applicable to us as
    a bank holding company) divided by adjusted average total assets
    (which includes adjustments for disallowed goodwill and certain
    intangible assets). The minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio is 3%
    for bank holding companies that have received the highest
    supervisory rating under Federal Reserve Board guidelines or
    that have implemented the Federal Reserve Board s
     risk-based 
    capital measure for market risk. Other bank holding companies
    must have a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. Bank
    holding companies may be expected to maintain ratios well above
    the minimum levels, depending upon their particular condition,
    risk profile and growth plans. As of November 2008, our
    estimated Tier 1 leverage ratio was 6.1%. This ratio
    represents a preliminary estimate and may be revised in
    subsequent filings as we continue to work with the Federal
    Reserve Board to finalize the methodology for the calculation.

GS Co. will continue to calculate its regulatory capital
    requirements in accordance with the market and credit risk
    standards of Appendix E of
     Rule 15c3-1 
    under the Exchange Act, which are consistent with Basel II.

Payment of
    Dividends   

Federal and state law imposes limitations on the payment of
    dividends by our bank depository institution subsidiaries. The
    amount of dividends that may be paid by a state-chartered bank
    that is a member of the Federal Reserve System, such as GS Bank
    USA or our national bank trust company subsidiary, is limited to
    the lesser of the amounts calculated under a  recent
    earnings  test and an  undivided profits  test.
    Under the recent earnings test, a dividend may not be paid if
    the total of all dividends declared by a bank in any calendar
    year is in excess of the current year s net income combined
    with the retained net income of the two preceding years, unless
    the bank obtains the approval of its chartering authority. Under
    the undivided profits test, a dividend may not be paid in excess
    of a bank s  undivided profits.  New York law
    imposes similar limitations on New York State-

19

Table of Contents   

chartered banks. As a result of these restrictions, GS Bank USA
    was not able to declare dividends to Group Inc. without
    regulatory approval as of November 2008.

In addition to the dividend restrictions described above, the
    banking regulators have authority to prohibit or to limit the
    payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise
    if, in the banking regulator s opinion, payment of a
    dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light
    of the financial condition of the banking organization.

It is also the policy of the Federal Reserve Board that a bank
    holding company generally only pay dividends on common stock out
    of net income available to common shareholders over the past
    year and only if the prospective rate of earnings retention
    appears consistent with the bank holding company s capital
    needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. In the
    current financial and economic environment, the Federal Reserve
    Board has indicated that bank holding companies should carefully
    review their dividend policy and has discouraged dividend
    pay-out ratios that are at the 100% level unless both asset
    quality and capital are very strong. A bank holding company also
    should not maintain a dividend level that places undue pressure
    on the capital of bank depository institution subsidiaries, or
    that may undermine the bank holding company s ability to
    serve as a source of strength for such bank depository
    institution subsidiaries. See
        U.S. Treasury s 
    TARP Capital Purchase Program  below for a discussion of
    additional restrictions on Group Inc. s ability to pay
    dividends. In addition, certain of Group Inc. s nonbank
    subsidiaries are subject to separate regulatory limitations on
    dividends and distributions, including our
     broker-dealer 
    and our insurance subsidiaries as described below.

Source of
    Strength   

Under Federal Reserve Board policy, Group Inc. is expected to
    act as a source of strength to GS Bank USA and to commit capital
    and financial resources to support this subsidiary. The required
    support may be needed at times when, absent that Federal Reserve
    Board policy, we may not find ourselves able to provide it.
    Capital loans by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary
    banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to
    certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary banks. In the
    event of a bank holding company s bankruptcy, any
    commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank
    regulator to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be
    assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of
    payment.

However, because the BHC Act provides for functional regulation
    of bank holding company activities by various regulators, the
    BHC Act prohibits the Federal Reserve Board from requiring
    payment by a holding company or subsidiary to a depository
    institution if the functional regulator of the payor objects to
    such payment. In such a case, the Federal Reserve Board could
    instead require the divestiture of the depository institution
    and impose operating restrictions pending the divestiture.

Cross-guarantee
    Provisions   

Each insured depository institution  controlled  (as
    defined in the BHC Act) by the same bank holding company can be
    held liable to the U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance
    Corporation (FDIC) for any loss incurred, or reasonably expected
    to be incurred, by the FDIC due to the default of any other
    insured depository institution controlled by that holding
    company and for any assistance provided by the FDIC to any of
    those banks that is in danger of default. Such a
     cross-guarantee  claim against a depository
    institution is generally superior in right of payment to claims
    of the holding company and its affiliates against that
    depository institution. At this time, we control only one
    insured depository institution for this purpose, namely GS Bank
    USA. However, if, in the future, we were to control other
    insured depository institutions, such cross-guarantee would
    apply to all such insured depository institutions.

20

Table of Contents   

U.S. Treasury s
    TARP Capital Purchase Program   

On October 28, 2008, Group Inc. issued preferred stock
    and a warrant to purchase its common stock to the
    U.S. Treasury as a participant in the TARP Capital Purchase
    Program. Prior to October 28, 2011, unless we have
    redeemed all of this preferred stock or the U.S. Treasury
    has transferred all of this preferred stock to a third party,
    the consent of the U.S. Treasury will be required for us
    to, among other things, increase our common stock dividend above
    the current quarterly cash dividend of $0.35 per share or
    repurchase our common stock or outstanding preferred stock
    except in limited circumstances. In addition, until the
    U.S. Treasury ceases to own any Group Inc. securities sold
    under the TARP Capital Purchase Program, the compensation
    arrangements for our senior executive officers must comply in
    all respects with the U.S. Emergency Economic Stabilization
    Act of 2008 and the rules and regulations thereunder. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Equity
    Capital   Equity Capital Management  in
    Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for a further discussion of our participation in the
    U.S. Treasury s TARP Capital Purchase Program.

FDIC Temporary
    Liquidity Guarantee Program   

Group Inc. and GS Bank USA have chosen to participate in the
    FDIC s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP), which
    applies to, among others, all U.S. depository institutions
    insured by the FDIC and all U.S. bank holding companies,
    unless they have opted out of the TLGP or the FDIC has
    terminated their participation. Under the TLGP, the FDIC
    guarantees certain senior unsecured debt of Group Inc. and GS
    Bank USA, as well as noninterest-bearing transaction account
    deposits at GS Bank USA, and in return for these guarantees the
    FDIC is paid a fee based on the amount of the deposit or the
    amount and maturity of the debt. Under the debt guarantee
    component of the TLGP, the FDIC will pay the unpaid principal
    and interest on an FDIC-guaranteed debt instrument upon the
    uncured failure of the participating entity to make a timely
    payment of principal or interest in accordance with the terms of
    the instrument. Under the transaction account guarantee
    component of the TLGP, all noninterest-bearing transaction
    accounts maintained at GS Bank USA are insured in full by the
    FDIC until December 31, 2009, regardless of the
    standard maximum deposit insurance amount. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and
    Funding Risk   Conservative Liability Structure 
    in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for a further discussion of our participation in the TLGP.

GS Bank
    USA   

Our U.S. depository institution subsidiary, GS Bank USA, a New
    York State-chartered bank and a member of the Federal Reserve
    System and the FDIC, is regulated by the Federal Reserve Board
    and the New York State Banking Department and is subject to
    minimum capital requirements that (subject to certain
    exceptions) are similar to those applicable to bank holding
    companies. GS Bank USA was formed in November 2008 through
    the merger of our existing Utah industrial bank (named GS Bank
    USA) into our New York limited purpose trust company, with the
    surviving company taking the name GS Bank USA. Concurrently with
    this merger, we contributed subsidiaries with an aggregate of
    $117.16 billion of assets into GS Bank USA (which brought
    total assets in GS Bank USA to $145.06 billion as of
    November 2008). As a result, a number of our businesses are now
    conducted partially or entirely through GS Bank USA, including:
    bank loan trading and origination; interest rate, credit,
    currency and other derivatives; leveraged finance; commercial
    and residential mortgage origination, trading and servicing;
    structured finance; and agency lending, custody and hedge fund
    administration services. The businesses conducted through GS
    Bank USA are now subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve
    Board, the New York State Banking Department and the FDIC.

21

Table of Contents   

Deposit
    Insurance   

GS Bank USA accepts deposits, and those deposits have the
    benefit of FDIC insurance up to the applicable limits. The
    FDIC s Deposit Insurance Fund is funded by assessments on
    insured depository institutions, which depend on the risk
    category of an institution and the amount of insured deposits
    that it holds. The FDIC may increase or decrease the assessment
    rate schedule on a
     semi-annual 
    basis. We are also participants in the TLGP as discussed above
    under
        FDIC 
    Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. 

Prompt
    Corrective Action   

The U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement
    Act of 1991 (FDICIA), among other things, requires the federal
    banking agencies to take  prompt corrective action  in
    respect of depository institutions that do not meet specified
    capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital categories
    for FDIC-insured banks: well capitalized, adequately
    capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized
    and critically undercapitalized. A depository institution is
    deemed to be  well capitalized,  the highest category,
    if it has a total capital ratio of 10% or greater, a Tier 1
    capital ratio of 6% or greater and a Tier 1 leverage ratio
    of 5% or greater and is not subject to any order or written
    directive by any such regulatory authority to meet and maintain
    a specific capital level for any capital measure. In connection
    with the November 2008 asset transfer described below, GS Bank
    USA agreed with the Federal Reserve Board to minimum capital
    ratios in excess of these  well capitalized  levels.
    Accordingly, for a period of time, GS Bank USA is expected to
    maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 8%, a total
    capital ratio of at least 11% and a Tier 1 leverage ratio
    of at least 6%. We contributed subsidiaries with an aggregate of
    $117.16 billion in assets into GS Bank USA in November 2008
    (which brought total assets in GS Bank USA to
    $145.06 billion as of November 2008). As a result, we are
    currently working with the Federal Reserve Board to finalize our
    methodology for the Basel I calculations. As of November
    2008, under Basel I, GS Bank USA s estimated
    Tier 1 capital ratio was 8.9% and estimated total capital
    ratio was 11.6%. In addition, GS Bank USA s estimated
    Tier 1 leverage ratio was 9.1%. An institution may be
    downgraded to, or deemed to be in, a capital category that is
    lower than is indicated by its capital ratios if it is
    determined to be in an unsafe or unsound condition or if it
    receives an unsatisfactory examination rating with respect to
    certain matters.

FDICIA imposes progressively more restrictive constraints on
    operations, management and capital distributions, as the capital
    category of an institution declines. Failure to meet the capital
    guidelines could also subject a depository institution to
    capital raising requirements. Ultimately, critically
    undercapitalized institutions are subject to the appointment of
    a receiver or conservator.

The prompt corrective action regulations apply only to
    depository institutions and not to bank holding companies such
    as Group Inc. However, the Federal Reserve Board is authorized
    to take appropriate action at the holding company level, based
    upon the undercapitalized status of the holding company s
    depository institution subsidiaries. In certain instances
    relating to an undercapitalized depository institution
    subsidiary, the bank holding company would be required to
    guarantee the performance of the undercapitalized
    subsidiary s capital restoration plan and might be liable
    for civil money damages for failure to fulfill its commitments
    on that guarantee. Furthermore, in the event of the bankruptcy
    of the parent holding company, the guarantee would take priority
    over the parent s general unsecured creditors.

Insolvency of
    an Insured Depository Institution   

If the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of an
    insured depository institution such as GS Bank USA, upon its
    insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC has the power:

to transfer any of the depository institution s assets and
    liabilities to a new obligor without the approval of the
    depository institution s creditors;

22

Table of Contents   

to enforce the terms of the depository institution s
    contracts pursuant to their terms; or

to repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to which the
    depository institution is a party, the performance of which is
    determined by the FDIC to be burdensome and the disaffirmance or
    repudiation of which is determined by the FDIC to promote the
    orderly administration of the depository institution.

In addition, under federal law, the claims of holders of deposit
    liabilities and certain claims for administrative expenses
    against an insured depository institution would be afforded a
    priority over other general unsecured claims against such an
    institution, including claims of debt holders of the
    institution, in the  liquidation or other resolution 
    of such an institution by any receiver. As a result, whether or
    not the FDIC ever sought to repudiate any debt obligations of GS
    Bank USA, the debt holders would be treated differently from,
    and could receive, if anything, substantially less than, the
    depositors of the depository institution.

Transactions
    with Affiliates   

Transactions between GS Bank USA and Group Inc. and its
    subsidiaries and affiliates are regulated by the Federal Reserve
    Board. These regulations limit the types and amounts of
    transactions (including loans to and credit extensions from GS
    Bank USA) that may take place and generally require those
    transactions to be on an arms-length basis. These regulations
    generally do not apply to transactions between GS Bank USA and
    its subsidiaries. In November 2008, Group Inc. transferred
    assets and operations to GS Bank USA as described above under
        GS 
    Bank USA.  In connection with this transfer, Group Inc.
    entered into a guarantee agreement with GS Bank USA whereby
    Group Inc. agreed to (i) purchase from GS Bank USA certain
    transferred assets (other than derivatives and mortgage
    servicing rights) or reimburse GS Bank USA for certain losses
    relating to those assets; (ii) reimburse GS Bank USA for
     credit-related 
    losses from assets transferred to GS Bank USA; and
    (iii) protect GS Bank USA or reimburse it for certain
    losses arising from derivatives and mortgage servicing rights
    transferred to GS Bank USA. Group Inc. also agreed to pledge to
    GS Bank USA collateral with an aggregate value at any time not
    less than 5% of the face amount of committed but unfunded credit
    lines plus the original transfer value of the assets transferred
    to GS Bank USA, which amounted to a required collateral value of
    approximately $7.1 billion as of November 2008.

Trust Companies   

Group Inc. s two limited purpose trust company subsidiaries
    operate under state or federal law. They are not permitted to
    and do not accept deposits (other than as incidental to their
    trust activities) or make loans and, as a result, are not
    insured by the FDIC. The Goldman Sachs Trust Company, N.A.,
    a national banking association that is limited to fiduciary
    activities, is regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the
    Currency and is a member bank of the Federal Reserve System. The
    Goldman Sachs Trust Company of Delaware, a Delaware limited
    purpose trust company, is regulated by the Office of the
    Delaware State Bank Commissioner.

U.S. Securities
    and Commodities Regulation  

Goldman Sachs 
     broker-dealer 
    subsidiaries are subject to regulations that cover all aspects
    of the securities business, including sales methods, trade
    practices, use and safekeeping of clients  funds and
    securities, capital structure, recordkeeping, the financing of
    clients  purchases, and the conduct of directors, officers
    and employees.

In the United States, the SEC is the federal agency responsible
    for the administration of the federal securities laws.
    GS Co. is registered as a
     broker-dealer 
    and as an investment adviser with the SEC and as a
     broker-dealer 
    in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Self-regulatory
    organizations, such as FINRA and the NYSE, adopt rules that
    apply to, and examine,
     broker-dealers 
    such as GS Co. In addition, state securities and other
    regulators also have regulatory or oversight

23

Table of Contents   

authority over GS Co. Similarly, our businesses are also
    subject to regulation by various
     non-U.S. governmental 
    and regulatory bodies and self-regulatory authorities in
    virtually all countries where we have offices. Goldman Sachs
    Execution   Clearing, L.P. (GSEC) and two of its
    subsidiaries are registered
     U.S. broker-dealers 
    and are regulated by the SEC, the NYSE and FINRA. Goldman Sachs
    Financial Markets, L.P. is registered with the SEC as an OTC
    derivatives dealer and conducts certain OTC derivatives
    businesses.

The commodity futures and commodity options industry in the
    United States is subject to regulation under the
    U.S. Commodity Exchange Act (CEA). The CFTC is the federal
    agency charged with the administration of the CEA. Several of
    Goldman Sachs  subsidiaries, including GS Co. and
    GSEC, are registered with the CFTC and act as futures commission
    merchants, commodity pool operators or commodity trading
    advisors and are subject to the CEA. The rules and regulations
    of various self-regulatory organizations, such as the Chicago
    Board of Trade and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, other
    futures exchanges and the National Futures Association, also
    govern the commodity futures and commodity options businesses of
    these entities.

GS Co. and GSEC are subject to
     Rule 15c3-1 
    of the SEC and Rule 1.17 of the CFTC, which specify uniform
    minimum net capital requirements and also effectively require
    that a significant part of the registrants  assets be kept
    in relatively liquid form. GS Co. and GSEC have elected to
    compute their minimum capital requirements in accordance with
    the  Alternative Net Capital Requirement  as permitted
    by
     Rule 15c3-1. 
    As of November 2008, GS Co. had regulatory net
    capital, as defined by
     Rule 15c3-1, 
    of $10.92 billion, which exceeded the amounts required by
    $8.87 billion. As of November 2008, GSEC had
    regulatory net capital, as defined by
     Rule 15c3-1, 
    of $1.38 billion, which exceeded the amounts required by
    $1.29 billion. In addition to its alternative minimum net
    capital requirements, GS Co. is also required to hold
    tentative net capital in excess of $1 billion and net
    capital in excess of $500 million in accordance with the
    market and credit risk standards of Appendix E of
     Rule 15c3-1. 
    GS Co. is also required to notify the SEC in the event that
    its tentative net capital is less than $5 billion. As of
    November 2008, GS Co. had tentative net capital and
    net capital in excess of both the minimum and the notification
    requirements. These net capital requirements may have the effect
    of prohibiting these entities from distributing or withdrawing
    capital and may require prior notice to the SEC for certain
    withdrawals of capital. See Note 17 to the consolidated
    financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Our specialist businesses are subject to extensive regulation by
    a number of securities exchanges. As a Designated Market Maker
    on the NYSE and as a specialist on other exchanges, we are
    required to maintain orderly markets in the securities to which
    we are assigned. Under the NYSE s new Designated Market
    Maker rules, this may require us to supply liquidity to these
    markets in certain circumstances.

J. Aron   Company is authorized by the
    U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to sell
    wholesale physical power at
     market-based 
    rates. As a FERC-authorized power marketer, J. Aron  
    Company is subject to regulation under the U.S. Federal
    Power Act and FERC regulations and to the oversight of FERC. As
    a result of our investing activities, GS Co. is also an
     exempt holding company  under the U.S. Public
    Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 and applicable FERC rules.

In addition, as a result of our power-related activities, we are
    subject to extensive and evolving energy, environmental and
    other governmental laws and regulations, as discussed under
     Risk Factors   Our power generation interests
    and related activities subject us to extensive regulation, as
    well as environmental and other risks associated with power
    generation activities  in Part I, Item 1A of our
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Other Regulation
    in the United States  

Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to state
    insurance regulation and oversight in the states in which they
    are domiciled and in the other states in which they are
    licensed, and we are subject to oversight as an insurance
    holding company in states where our insurance subsidiaries are

24

Table of Contents   

domiciled. State insurance regulations limit the ability of our
    insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to Group Inc. in certain
    circumstances, and could require regulatory approval for any
    change in  control  of Group Inc., which may include
    control of 10% or more of our voting stock. In addition, a
    number of our other businesses, including our lending and
    mortgage businesses, require us to obtain licenses, adhere to
    applicable regulations and be subject to the oversight of
    various regulators in the states in which we conduct these
    businesses.

The U.S. Bank Secrecy Act (BSA), as amended by the USA
    PATRIOT Act of 2001 (PATRIOT Act), contains anti-money
    laundering and financial transparency laws and mandated the
    implementation of various regulations applicable to all
    financial institutions, including standards for verifying client
    identification at account opening, and obligations to monitor
    client transactions and report suspicious activities. Through
    these and other provisions, the BSA and the PATRIOT Act seek to
    promote the identification of parties that may be involved in
    terrorism, money laundering or other suspicious activities.
    Anti-money laundering laws outside the United States contain
    some similar provisions. The obligation of financial
    institutions, including Goldman Sachs, to identify their
    clients, to monitor for and report suspicious transactions, to
    respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities
    and law enforcement agencies, and to share information with
    other financial institutions, has required the implementation
    and maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls
    that have increased, and may continue to increase, our costs,
    and any failure with respect to our programs in this area could
    subject us to substantial liability and regulatory fines.

Regulation Outside
    the United States  

Goldman Sachs provides investment services in and from the
    United Kingdom under the regulation of the Financial Services
    Authority (FSA). Goldman Sachs International (GSI), our
    regulated U.K.
     broker-dealer, 
    is subject to the capital requirements imposed by the FSA. As of
    November 2008, GSI was in compliance with the FSA capital
    requirements. Other subsidiaries, including Goldman Sachs
    International Bank, are also regulated by the FSA.

Goldman Sachs Bank (Europe) PLC (GS Bank Europe), our regulated
    Irish bank, is subject to minimum capital requirements imposed
    by the Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority. As of
    November 2008, this bank was in compliance with all
    regulatory capital requirements. Group Inc. has issued a general
    guarantee of the obligations of this bank.

Various other Goldman Sachs entities are regulated by the
    banking, insurance and securities regulatory authorities of the
    European countries in which they operate, including, among
    others, the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) and
    the Bundesbank in Germany, Banque de France and the
    Autorit  des March s Financiers in France, Banca
    d Italia and the Commissione Nazionale per le Societ 
    e la Borsa (CONSOB) in Italy, the Federal Financial Markets
    Service in Russia and the Swiss Federal Banking Commission.
    Certain Goldman Sachs entities are also regulated by the
    European securities, derivatives and commodities exchanges of
    which they are members.

The investment services that are subject to oversight by the FSA
    and other regulators within the European Union (EU) are
    regulated in accordance with national laws, many of which
    implement EU directives requiring, among other things,
    compliance with certain capital adequacy standards, customer
    protection requirements and market conduct and trade reporting
    rules. These standards, requirements and rules are similarly
    implemented, under the same directives, throughout the EU.

Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd. (GSJCL), our regulated Japanese
     broker-dealer, 
    is subject to the capital requirements imposed by Japan s
    Financial Services Agency. As of November 2008, GSJCL was
    in compliance with its capital adequacy requirements. GSJCL is
    also regulated by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Osaka Securities
    Exchange, the Tokyo Financial Exchange, the Japan Securities
    Dealers Association, the Tokyo Commodity Exchange and the
    Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in Japan.

25

Table of Contents   

Also in Asia, the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong
    Kong, the Monetary Authority of Singapore, the China Securities
    Regulatory Commission, the Korean Financial Supervisory Service,
    the Reserve Bank of India and the Securities and Exchange Board
    of India, among others, regulate various of our subsidiaries and
    also have capital standards and other requirements comparable to
    the rules of the SEC.

Various Goldman Sachs entities are regulated by the banking and
    regulatory authorities in other
     non-U.S. countries 
    in which Goldman Sachs operates, including, among others, Brazil
    and Dubai. In addition, certain of our insurance subsidiaries
    are regulated by Lloyd s (which is, in turn, regulated by
    the FSA) and by the Bermuda Monetary Authority.

Regulations
    Applicable in and Outside the United States  

The U.S. and
     non-U.S. government 
    agencies, regulatory bodies and self-regulatory organizations,
    as well as state securities commissions and other state
    regulators in the United States, are empowered to conduct
    administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, the
    issuance of cease and desist orders, or the suspension or
    expulsion of a
     broker-dealer 
    or its directors, officers or employees. From time to time, our
    subsidiaries have been subject to investigations and
    proceedings, and sanctions have been imposed for infractions of
    various regulations relating to our activities, none of which
    has had a material adverse effect on us or our businesses.

The research areas of investment banks have been and remain the
    subject of regulatory scrutiny. The SEC and FINRA have rules
    governing research analysts, including rules imposing
    restrictions on the interaction between equity research analysts
    and investment banking personnel at member securities firms.
    Various
     non-U.S. jurisdictions 
    have imposed both substantive and disclosure-based requirements
    with respect to research and may impose additional regulations.
    In 2003, GS Co. agreed to a global settlement with certain
    federal and state securities regulators and self-regulatory
    organizations to resolve investigations into equity research
    analysts  alleged conflicts of interest. The global
    settlement includes certain restrictions and undertakings that
    have imposed additional costs and limitations on the conduct of
    our businesses, including restrictions on the interaction
    between research and investment banking areas.

In connection with the research settlement, we have also
    subscribed to a voluntary initiative imposing restrictions on
    the allocation of shares in initial public offerings to
    executives and directors of public companies. The FSA in the
    United Kingdom has imposed requirements on the conduct of the
    allocation process in equity and fixed income securities
    offerings (including initial public offerings and secondary
    distributions). The SEC, the FSA, FINRA and other U.S. or
     non-U.S. regulators 
    may in the future adopt additional and more stringent rules with
    respect to offering procedures and the management of conflicts
    of interest, and we cannot fully predict the effect that any new
    requirements will have on our business.

Our investment management businesses are subject to significant
    regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world relating
    to, among other things, the safeguarding of client assets and
    our management of client funds.

As discussed above, many of our subsidiaries are subject to
    regulatory capital requirements in jurisdictions throughout the
    world. Subsidiaries not subject to separate regulation may hold
    capital to satisfy local tax guidelines, rating agency
    requirements or internal policies, including policies concerning
    the minimum amount of capital a subsidiary should hold based
    upon its underlying risk.

Certain of our businesses are subject to compliance with
    regulations enacted by U.S. federal and state governments,
    the European Union or other jurisdictions
     and/or 
    enacted by various regulatory organizations or exchanges
    relating to the privacy of the information of clients, employees
    or others, and any failure to comply with these regulations
    could expose us to liability
     and/or 
    reputational damage.

26

Table of Contents   

Item 1A.  Risk
    Factors  

We face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in
    our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit,
    operational, legal and regulatory risks. The following are some
    of the more important factors that could affect our businesses.

Our businesses
    have been and may continue to be adversely affected by
    conditions in the global financial markets and economic
    conditions generally.   

Our businesses, by their nature, do not produce predictable
    earnings, and all of our businesses are materially affected by
    conditions in the global financial markets and economic
    conditions generally. In the past twelve months, these
    conditions have changed suddenly and negatively.

Since mid-2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008,
    the financial services industry and the securities markets
    generally were materially and adversely affected by significant
    declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a
    serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by
    declines in the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all
    mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans
    and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. The global
    markets have been characterized by substantially increased
    volatility and
     short-selling 
    and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in
    financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a
    number of other industries and in the broader markets. The
    decline in asset values has caused increases in margin calls for
    investors, requirements that derivatives counterparties post
    additional collateral and redemptions by mutual and hedge fund
    investors, all of which have increased the downward pressure on
    asset values and outflows of client funds across the financial
    services industry. In addition, the increased redemptions and
    unavailability of credit have required hedge funds and others to
    rapidly reduce leverage, which has increased volatility and
    further contributed to the decline in asset values.

Market conditions have also led to the failure or merger of a
    number of prominent financial institutions. Financial
    institution failures or near-failures have resulted in further
    losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them
    and defaults under bilateral derivatives and other contracts
    entered into with such entities as counterparties. Furthermore,
    declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer
    loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well
    as other factors, have all combined to increase credit default
    swap spreads, to cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings,
    and to otherwise increase the cost and decrease the availability
    of liquidity, despite very significant declines in central bank
    borrowing rates and other government actions. Banks and other
    lenders have suffered significant losses and have become
    reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased
    risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the
    value of collateral. The markets for securitized debt offerings
    backed by mortgages, loans, credit card receivables and other
    assets have for the most part been closed.

In 2008, governments, regulators and central banks in the United
    States and worldwide have taken numerous steps to increase
    liquidity and to restore investor confidence, but asset values
    have continued to decline and access to liquidity continues to
    be very limited.

We have  long  proprietary positions in a number of
    our businesses. These positions are accounted for at fair value,
    and the declines in the values of assets have had a direct and
    large negative impact on our earnings in fiscal 2008. Revenues
    from our asset management and merchant banking businesses were
    also negatively impacted by declines in the values of assets
    managed for our clients.

The ongoing liquidity crisis and the loss of confidence in
    financial institutions has increased our cost of funding and
    limited our access to some of our traditional sources of
    liquidity, including both secured and unsecured borrowings.
    While the numerous steps taken by governments, regulators and
    central banks have helped reduce these funding costs somewhat
    and increase our access to traditional and new sources of
    liquidity, increases in funding costs and limitations on our
    access to liquidity have

27

Table of Contents   

negatively impacted our earnings and our ability to engage in
    certain activities. In particular, in the latter half of 2008,
    we were unable to raise significant amounts of
     long-term 
    unsecured debt in the public markets, other than as a result of
    the issuance of securities guaranteed by the FDIC under the
    TLGP. We are able to have outstanding approximately
    $35 billion of debt under the TLGP that is issued prior to
    June 30, 2009. It is unclear when we will regain
    access to the public
     long-term 
    unsecured debt markets on customary terms or whether any similar
    program will be available after the TLGP s scheduled
    June 2009 expiration. However, we continue to have access
    to
     short-term 
    funding and to a number of sources of secured funding, both in
    the private markets and through various government and central
    bank sponsored initiatives. In December 2008, Moody s
    Investors Service downgraded our
     long-term 
    debt credit rating and Standard   Poor s
    downgraded both our
     long-term 
    and
     short-term 
    debt credit ratings, in each case with an outlook of
     negative. 

We have been able to fund our operations during fiscal 2008. Our
    global core excess (our cash and cash equivalent positions
    maintained to ensure
     short-term 
    liquidity) and our capital ratios are at levels significantly
    higher than in the past. Nevertheless, our credit spreads have
    widened and the average maturity of our new funding has
    decreased. Recently, we have relied to a significant extent for
    our
     long-term 
    unsecured funding on emergency funding programs implemented by
    governments and central banks. It is unclear whether or for how
    long these facilities will be extended and what impact
    termination of these facilities could have on our ability to
    access funding. See  Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Liquidity and Funding Risk  in
    Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Furthermore, the increased riskiness of assets due to increases
    in the volatility of asset prices, coupled with market concerns
    about the levels of financial institution leverage ratios, as
    well as fewer attractive business opportunities, have caused us
    to significantly decrease the size of our balance sheet and to
    increase the size of our global core excess. Both of these steps
    may have a negative effect on our profitability, until reversed.

Concerns about financial institution profitability and solvency
    as a result of general market conditions, particularly in the
    credit markets, together with the forced merger or failure of a
    number of major commercial and investment banks, have at times
    caused a number of our clients to reduce the level of business
    that they do with us, either because of concerns about the
    safety of their assets held by us or simply arising from a
    desire to diversify their risk or for other reasons. Some
    clients have withdrawn some of the funds held at our firm or
    transferred them from deposits with GS Bank USA to other types
    of assets (in many cases leaving those assets in their brokerage
    accounts held with us). Some counterparties have at times
    refused to enter into certain derivatives and other
     long-term 
    transactions with us or have requested additional collateral.
    These instances were more prevalent during periods when the lack
    of confidence in financial institutions was most widespread and
    have become significantly less frequent in recent months in the
    wake of government and central bank actions, greater
    understanding of client account protections and higher limits of
    FDIC insurance. In addition, we have acquired some new clients
    as a result of the difficulties experienced by other financial
    institutions.

During the fourth quarter of 2008, we raised $20.75 billion
    in equity, comprised of a $5.75 billion public common stock
    offering, a $5 billion preferred stock and warrant issuance
    to Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and certain affiliates and a
    $10 billion preferred stock and warrant issuance under the
    U.S. Treasury s TARP Capital Purchase Program. While this
    additional capital provides further funding to our business and
    we believe has improved investor perceptions with regard to our
    financial position, it has increased our equity and the number
    of actual and diluted outstanding shares of our common stock as
    well as our preferred dividend requirements, which will reduce
    our earnings per share and the return on our equity unless our
    earnings increase sufficiently.

In addition, as of the end of 2008, the United States, Europe
    and Japan are all in a recession. Business activity across a
    wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced and
    local governments and many companies are in serious difficulty
    due to the lack of consumer spending and

28

Table of Contents   

the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment has
    increased significantly. While lower interest rates, increased
    volatility and substantial increases in trading volumes have
    positively impacted earnings in a number of our trading
    businesses, declines in asset values, the lack of liquidity,
    general uncertainty about economic and market activities and a
    lack of consumer, investor and CEO confidence have negatively
    impacted many of our other businesses, particularly our
    investment banking, merchant banking, asset management, credit
    products, mortgage, leveraged lending and equity principal
    strategies businesses. In particular, our investment banking
    business has been affected during the last twelve months by the
    decrease in equity and debt underwritings and the decline in
    both announced and completed mergers and acquisitions.

Our financial performance is highly dependent on the environment
    in which our businesses operate. A favorable business
    environment is generally characterized by, among other factors,
    high global gross domestic product growth, transparent, liquid
    and efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and
    investor confidence, stable geopolitical conditions, and strong
    business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market
    conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth,
    business activity or investor or business confidence;
    limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of
    credit and capital; increases in inflation, interest rates,
    exchange rate volatility, default rates or the price of basic
    commodities; outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical
    instability; corporate, political or other scandals that reduce
    investor confidence in capital markets; natural disasters or
    pandemics; or a combination of these or other factors.

Overall, during fiscal 2008, the business environment has been
    extremely adverse for many of our businesses and there can be no
    assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term.
    Until they do, we expect our results of operations to be
    adversely affected.

Our businesses
    have been and may continue to be adversely affected by declining
    asset values.   

Many of our businesses, such as our merchant banking businesses,
    our mortgages, leveraged loan and credit products businesses in
    our FICC segment, and our equity principal strategies business,
    have net  long  positions in debt securities, loans,
    derivatives, mortgages, equities (including private equity) and
    most other asset classes. In addition, many of our
     market-making 
    and other businesses in which we act as a principal to
    facilitate our clients  activities, including our
    specialist businesses, commit large amounts of capital to
    maintain trading positions in interest rate and credit products,
    as well as currencies, commodities and equities. Because nearly
    all of these investing and trading positions are
     marked-to-market 
    on a daily basis, declines in asset values directly and
    immediately impact our earnings, unless we have effectively
     hedged  our exposures to such declines. In certain
    circumstances (particularly in the case of leveraged loans and
    private equities or other securities that are not freely
    tradable or lack established and liquid trading markets), it may
    not be possible or economic to hedge such exposures and to the
    extent that we do so the hedge may be ineffective or may greatly
    reduce our ability to profit from increases in the values of the
    assets. Sudden declines and significant volatility in the prices
    of assets may substantially curtail or eliminate the trading
    markets for certain assets, which may make it very difficult to
    sell, hedge or value such assets. The inability to sell or
    effectively hedge assets reduces our ability to limit losses in
    such positions and the difficulty in valuing assets may increase
    our
     risk-weighted 
    assets which requires us to maintain additional capital and
    increases our funding costs.

In our specialist businesses, we are obligated by stock exchange
    rules to maintain an orderly market, including by purchasing
    shares in a declining market. In markets where asset values are
    declining and in volatile markets, this results in trading
    losses and an increased need for liquidity.

We receive
     asset-based 
    management fees based on the value of our clients 
    portfolios or investment in funds managed by us and, in some
    cases, we also receive incentive fees based on increases in the
    value of such investments. Declines in asset values reduce the
    value of our clients  portfolios or fund assets, which in
    turn reduce the fees we earn for managing such assets.

29

Table of Contents   

We post collateral to support our obligations and receive
    collateral to support the obligations of our clients and
    counterparties in connection with our trading businesses. When
    the value of the assets posted as collateral declines, the party
    posting the collateral may need to provide additional collateral
    or, if possible, reduce its trading position. A classic example
    of such a situation is a  margin call  in connection
    with a brokerage account. Therefore, declines in the value of
    asset classes used as collateral mean that either the cost of
    funding trading positions is increased or the size of trading
    positions is decreased. If we are the party providing collateral
    this can increase our costs and reduce our profitability and if
    we are the party receiving collateral this can also reduce our
    profitability by reducing the level of business done with our
    clients and counterparties. In addition, volatile or less liquid
    markets increase the difficulty of valuing assets which can lead
    to costly and time-consuming disputes over asset values and the
    level of required collateral, as well as increased credit risk
    to the recipient of the collateral due to delays in receiving
    adequate collateral.

Our businesses
    have been and may continue to be adversely affected by
    disruptions in the credit markets, including reduced access to
    credit and higher costs of obtaining credit.   

Widening credit spreads, as well as significant declines in the
    availability of credit, have adversely affected our ability to
    borrow on a secured and unsecured basis and may continue to do
    so. We fund ourselves on an unsecured basis by issuing
    commercial paper, promissory notes and
     long-term 
    debt, or by obtaining bank loans or lines of credit. We seek to
    finance many of our assets, including our less liquid assets, on
    a secured basis, including by entering into repurchase
    agreements. Disruptions in the credit markets make it harder and
    more expensive to obtain funding for our businesses. If our
    available funding is limited or we are forced to fund our
    operations at a higher cost, these conditions may require us to
    curtail our business activities and increase our cost of
    funding, both of which could reduce our profitability,
    particularly in our businesses that involve investing, lending
    and taking principal positions, including market making.

Our clients engaging in mergers and acquisitions often rely on
    access to the secured and unsecured credit markets to finance
    their transactions. The lack of available credit and the
    increased cost of credit can adversely affect the size, volume
    and timing of our clients  merger and acquisition
    transactions   particularly large
    transactions   and adversely affect our financial
    advisory and underwriting businesses.

In addition, we may incur significant unrealized gains or losses
    due solely to changes in our credit spreads or those of third
    parties, as these changes may affect the fair value of our
    derivative instruments and the debt securities that we hold or
    issue.

Our businesses
    have been and may continue to be affected by changes in the
    levels of market volatility.   

Certain of our trading businesses depend on market volatility to
    provide trading and arbitrage opportunities, and decreases in
    volatility may reduce these opportunities and adversely affect
    the results of these businesses. On the other hand, increased
    volatility, while it can increase trading volumes and spreads,
    also increases risk as measured by VaR and may expose us to
    increased risks in connection with our
     market-making 
    and proprietary businesses or cause us to reduce the size of
    these businesses in order to avoid increasing our VaR. Limiting
    the size of our
     market-making 
    positions and investing businesses can adversely affect our
    profitability, even though spreads are widening and we may earn
    more on each trade. In periods when volatility is increasing,
    but asset values are declining significantly (as has been the
    case recently), it may not be possible to sell assets at all or
    it may only be possible to do so at steep discounts. In such
    circumstances we may be forced to either take on additional risk
    or to incur losses in order to decrease our VaR. In addition,
    increases in volatility increase the level of our risk weighted
    assets and increase our capital requirements which increases our
    funding costs.

30

Table of Contents   

Our businesses
    have been adversely affected and may continue to be adversely
    affected by market uncertainty or lack of confidence among
    investors and CEOs due to general declines in economic activity
    and other unfavorable economic, geopolitical or market
    conditions.   

Our investment banking business has been and may continue to be
    adversely affected by market conditions. Poor economic
    conditions and other adverse geopolitical conditions can
    adversely affect and have adversely affected investor and CEO
    confidence, resulting in significant
     industry-wide 
    declines in the size and number of underwritings and of
    financial advisory transactions, which could continue to have an
    adverse effect on our revenues and our profit margins. In
    particular, because a significant portion of our investment
    banking revenues are derived from our participation in large
    transactions, a decline in the number of large transactions
    would adversely affect our investment banking business.

In certain circumstances, market uncertainty or general declines
    in market or economic activity may affect our trading businesses
    by decreasing levels of overall activity or by decreasing
    volatility, but at other times market uncertainty and even
    declining economic activity may result in higher trading volumes
    or higher spreads or both.

Market uncertainty, volatility and adverse economic conditions,
    as well as declines in asset values, may cause our clients to
    transfer their assets out of our funds or other products or
    their brokerage accounts and result in reduced net revenues,
    principally in our asset management business. To the extent that
    clients do not withdraw their funds, they may invest them in
    products that generate less fee income.

Our investing
    businesses may be affected by the poor investment performance of
    our investment products.   

Poor investment returns in our asset management business, due to
    either general market conditions or underperformance (against
    the performance of benchmarks or of our competitors) by funds or
    accounts that we manage or investment products that we design or
    sell, affects our ability to retain existing assets and to
    attract new clients or additional assets from existing clients.
    This could affect the asset management and incentive fees that
    we earn on assets under management or the commissions that we
    earn for selling other investment products, such as structured
    notes or derivatives.

We have in the past provided financial support to certain of our
    investment products in difficult market circumstances and, at
    our discretion, we may decide to do so in the future for
    reputational or business reasons, including through equity
    investments or cash infusions.

We may incur
    losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and
    strategies.   

We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk
    and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but
    complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and
    legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review
    processes and other mechanisms. Our trading risk management
    process seeks to balance our ability to profit from trading
    positions with our exposure to potential losses. While we employ
    a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk
    mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that
    accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and
    financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes.
    Thus, we may, in the course of our activities, incur losses.
    Recent market conditions have involved unprecedented
    dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using
    historical data to manage risk.

The models that we use to assess and control our risk exposures
    reflect assumptions about the degrees of correlation or lack
    thereof among prices of various asset classes or other market
    indicators. In times of market stress or other unforeseen
    circumstances, such as occurred during 2008, previously
    uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or conversely
    previously correlated indicators may move in different
    directions. These types of market movements have at times
    limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and have
    caused us to incur significant losses, and they

31

Table of Contents   

may do so in the future. These changes in correlation can be
    exacerbated where other market participants are using risk or
    trading models with assumptions or algorithms that are similar
    to ours. In these and other cases, it may be difficult to reduce
    our risk positions due to the activity of other market
    participants or widespread market dislocations, including
    circumstances where asset values are declining significantly or
    no market exists for certain assets. To the extent that we make
    investments directly through various of our businesses in
    securities, including private equity, that do not have an
    established liquid trading market or are otherwise subject to
    restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce
    our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such
    positions. In addition, we invest our own capital in our
    merchant banking, alternative investment and infrastructure
    funds, and limitations on our ability to withdraw some or all of
    our investments in these funds, whether for legal, reputational
    or other reasons, may make it more difficult for us to control
    the risk exposures relating to these investments.

For a further discussion of our risk management policies and
    procedures, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Risk Management  in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Our liquidity,
    profitability and businesses may be adversely affected by an
    inability to access the debt capital markets or to sell assets
    or by a reduction in our credit ratings or by an increase in our
    credit spreads.   

Liquidity is essential to our businesses. Our liquidity may be
    impaired by an inability to access secured
     and/or 
    unsecured debt markets, an inability to access funds from our
    subsidiaries, an inability to sell assets or redeem our
    investments, or unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. This
    situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable
    to control, such as a general market disruption or an
    operational problem that affects third parties or us, or even by
    the perception among market participants that we, or other
    market participants, are experiencing greater liquidity risk.

The financial instruments that we hold and the contracts to
    which we are a party are increasingly complex, as we employ
    structured products to benefit our clients and ourselves, and
    these complex structured products often do not have readily
    available markets to access in times of liquidity stress. Our
    investing activities may lead to situations where the holdings
    from these activities represent a significant portion of
    specific markets, which could restrict liquidity for our
    positions. Further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired
    if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets
    at the same time, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other
    market crisis. In addition, financial institutions with which we
    interact may exercise set-off rights or the right to require
    additional collateral, including in difficult market conditions,
    which could further impair our access to liquidity.

Our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. A reduction
    in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and
    competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our
    access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under
    certain bilateral provisions in some of our trading and
    collateralized financing contracts. Under these provisions,
    counterparties could be permitted to terminate contracts with
    Goldman Sachs or require us to post additional collateral.
    Termination of our trading and collateralized financing
    contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our
    liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or
    to make significant cash payments or securities movements.

Our cost of obtaining
     long-term 
    unsecured funding is directly related to our credit spreads (the
    amount in excess of the interest rate of U.S. Treasury
    securities (or other benchmark securities) of the same maturity
    that we need to pay to our debt investors). Increases in our
    credit spreads can significantly increase our cost of this
    funding. Changes in credit spreads are continuous,
     market-driven, 
    and subject at times to unpredictable and highly volatile
    movements. Credit spreads are influenced by market perceptions
    of our creditworthiness. In addition, our credit spreads may be
    influenced by movements in the costs to purchasers of credit
    default swaps referenced to our

32

Table of Contents   

long-term 
    debt. The market for credit default swaps is relatively new,
    although very large, and it has proven to be extremely volatile
    and currently lacks a high degree of structure or transparency.

Group Inc. is
    a holding company and is dependent for liquidity on payments
    from its subsidiaries, which are subject to
    restrictions.   

Group Inc. is a holding company and, therefore, depends on
    dividends, distributions and other payments from its
    subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments
    on its obligations, including debt obligations. Many of our
    subsidiaries, including our
     broker-dealer, 
    bank and insurance subsidiaries, are subject to laws that
    restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to
    block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to
    Group Inc. Restrictions or regulatory action of that kind could
    impede access to funds that Group Inc. needs to make payments on
    its obligations, including debt obligations, or dividend
    payments. In addition, Group Inc. s right to participate in
    a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary s liquidation or
    reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the
    subsidiary s creditors.

Furthermore, Group Inc. has guaranteed the payment obligations
    of GS Co., GS Bank USA and GS Bank Europe, subject to
    certain exceptions, and has pledged significant assets to GS
    Bank USA to support obligations to GS Bank USA. These guarantees
    may require Group Inc. to provide substantial funds or assets to
    its subsidiaries or their creditors and counterparties at a time
    when Group Inc. is in need of liquidity to fund its own
    obligations. See  Business   Regulation  in
    Part I, Item 1 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Our
    businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely
    affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults
    by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets
    or whose securities or obligations we hold.   

The amount and duration of our credit exposures have been
    increasing over the past several years, as have the breadth and
    size of the entities to which we have credit exposures. We are
    exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money,
    securities or other assets will not perform their obligations.
    These parties may default on their obligations to us due to
    bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other
    reasons. A failure of a significant market participant, or even
    concerns about a default by such an institution, could lead to
    significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other
    institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us.

We are also subject to the risk that our rights against third
    parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. In
    addition, deterioration in the credit quality of third parties
    whose securities or obligations we hold could result in losses
     and/or 
    adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use
    those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. A
    significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our
    counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results.
    While in many cases we are permitted to require additional
    collateral from counterparties that experience financial
    difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we
    are entitled to receive and the value of pledged assets. The
    termination of contracts and the foreclosure on collateral may
    subject us to claims for the improper exercise of our rights.
    Default rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to
    the valuation of collateral increase significantly in times of
    market stress and illiquidity.

As part of our clearing business, we finance our client
    positions, and we could be held responsible for the defaults or
    misconduct of our clients. Although we regularly review credit
    exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific
    industries, countries and regions that we believe may present
    credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or
    circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee.

33

Table of Contents   

Concentration
    of risk increases the potential for significant
    losses.   

Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant
    losses in our
     market-making, 
    proprietary trading, investing, block trading, merchant banking,
    underwriting and lending businesses. This risk may increase to
    the extent we expand our proprietary trading and investing
    businesses or commit capital to facilitate client-driven
    business. The number and size of such transactions may affect
    our results of operations in a given period. Moreover, because
    of concentration of risk, we may suffer losses even when
    economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our
    competitors. Disruptions in the credit markets can make it
    difficult to hedge these credit exposures effectively or
    economically. In addition, we extend large commitments as part
    of our credit origination activities. Our inability to reduce
    our credit risk by selling, syndicating or securitizing these
    positions, including during periods of market stress, could
    negatively affect our results of operations due to a decrease in
    the fair value of the positions, including due to the insolvency
    or bankruptcy of the borrower, as well as the loss of revenues
    associated with selling such securities or loans.

In the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to a
    concentration of credit risk to a particular counterparty,
    borrower or issuer, and a failure or downgrade of, or default
    by, such entity could negatively impact our businesses, perhaps
    materially, and the systems by which we set limits and monitor
    the level of our credit exposure to individual entities,
    industries and countries may not function as we have
    anticipated. While our activities expose us to many different
    industries and counterparties, we routinely execute a high
    volume of transactions with counterparties in the financial
    services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial
    banks, and investment funds. This has resulted in significant
    credit concentration with respect to this industry.

The financial
    services industry is highly competitive.   

The financial services industry   and all of our
    businesses   are intensely competitive, and we expect
    them to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of
    factors, including transaction execution, our products and
    services, innovation, reputation, creditworthiness and price.
    Over time, there has been substantial consolidation and
    convergence among companies in the financial services industry.
    This trend accelerated over the course of the past year as a
    result of numerous mergers and asset acquisitions among industry
    participants. This trend has also hastened the globalization of
    the securities and other financial services markets. As a
    result, we have had to commit capital to support our
    international operations and to execute large global
    transactions. To the extent we expand into new business areas
    and new geographic regions, we will face competitors with more
    experience and more established relationships with clients,
    regulators and industry participants in the relevant market,
    which could adversely affect our ability to expand.

Pricing and other competitive pressures in our investment
    banking business, as well as our other businesses, have
    continued to increase, particularly in situations where some of
    our competitors may seek to increase market share by reducing
    prices. For example, in connection with investment banking and
    other assignments, we have experienced pressure to extend and
    price credit at levels that may not always fully compensate us
    for the risks we take.

We face
    enhanced risks as new business initiatives lead us to transact
    with a broader array of clients and counterparties and expose us
    to new asset classes and new markets.   

A number of our recent and planned business initiatives and
    expansions of existing businesses may bring us into contact,
    directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are
    not within our traditional client and counterparty base and
    expose us to new asset classes and new markets. These business
    activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, including risks
    associated with dealing with governmental entities, reputational
    concerns arising from dealing with less sophisticated
    counterparties and investors, greater regulatory scrutiny of
    these activities, increased
     credit-related, 
    sovereign and operational risks, risks arising from accidents or
    acts of terrorism, and reputational concerns with the manner in
    which these assets are being operated or held.

34

Table of Contents   

Derivative
    transactions may expose us to unexpected risk and potential
    losses.   

We are party to a large number of derivative transactions,
    including credit derivatives. Many of these derivative
    instruments are individually negotiated and
     non-standardized, 
    which can make exiting, transferring or settling the position
    difficult. Many credit derivatives require that we deliver to
    the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other
    obligation in order to receive payment. In a number of cases, we
    do not hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation
    and may not be able to obtain, the underlying security, loan or
    other obligation. This could cause us to forfeit the payments
    due to us under these contracts or result in settlement delays
    with the attendant credit and operational risk as well as
    increased costs to the firm.

Derivative contracts and other transactions entered into with
    third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties on
    a timely basis. While the transaction remains unconfirmed, we
    are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and in the
    event of a default may find it more difficult to enforce the
    contract. In addition, as new and more complex derivative
    products are created, covering a wider array of underlying
    credit and other instruments, disputes about the terms of the
    underlying contracts could arise, which could impair our ability
    to effectively manage our risk exposures from these products and
    subject us to increased costs. Any regulatory effort to create
    an exchange or trading platform for credit derivatives and other
    OTC derivative contracts, or a market shift toward standardized
    derivatives, could reduce the risk associated with such
    transactions, but under certain circumstances could also limit
    our ability to develop derivatives that best suit the needs of
    our clients and ourselves and adversely affect our profitability.

A failure in
    our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third
    parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses,
    result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our
    reputation and cause losses.   

Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process
    and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of
    transactions, many of which are highly complex, across numerous
    and diverse markets in many currencies. These transactions, as
    well as the information technology services we provide to
    clients, often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as
    well as legal and regulatory standards. As our client base and
    our geographical reach expands, developing and maintaining our
    operational systems and infrastructure becomes increasingly
    challenging. Our financial, accounting, data processing or other
    operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or
    become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or
    partially beyond our control, such as a spike in transaction
    volume, adversely affecting our ability to process these
    transactions or provide these services. In addition, we also
    face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity
    constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing
    houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate
    our securities transactions, and as our interconnectivity with
    our clients grows, we increasingly face the risk of operational
    failure with respect to our clients  systems. In recent
    years, there has been significant consolidation among clearing
    agents, exchanges and clearing houses, which has increased our
    exposure to operational failure, termination or capacity
    constraints of the particular financial intermediaries that we
    use and could affect our ability to find adequate and
     cost-effective 
    alternatives in the event of any such failure, termination or
    constraint. Industry consolidation, whether among market
    participants or financial intermediaries, increases the risk of
    operational failure as disparate complex systems need to be
    integrated, often on an accelerated basis. Furthermore, the
    interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with
    central agents, exchanges and clearing houses increases the risk
    that an operational failure at one institution may cause an
     industry-wide 
    operational failure that could materially impact our ability to
    conduct business. Any such failure, termination or constraint
    could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions,
    service our clients, manage our exposure to risk or expand our
    businesses or result in financial loss or liability to our
    clients, impairment of our liquidity, disruption of our
    businesses, regulatory intervention or reputational damage.

35

Table of Contents   

Despite the resiliency plans and facilities we have in place,
    our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a
    disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses
    and the communities in which we are located. This may include a
    disruption involving electrical, communications, internet,
    transportation or other services used by us or third parties
    with which we conduct business. These disruptions may occur as a
    result of events that affect only our buildings or the buildings
    of such third parties, or as a result of events with a broader
    impact globally, regionally or in the cities where those
    buildings are located. Nearly all of our employees in our
    primary locations, including the New York metropolitan area,
    London, Frankfurt, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Bangalore, work in close
    proximity to one another, in one or more buildings.
    Notwithstanding our efforts to maintain business continuity,
    given that our headquarters and the largest concentration of our
    employees are in the New York metropolitan area, depending on
    the intensity and longevity of the event, a catastrophic event
    impacting our New York metropolitan area offices could very
    negatively affect our business. If a disruption occurs in one
    location and our employees in that location are unable to occupy
    our offices or communicate with or travel to other locations,
    our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer,
    and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency
    plans that depend on communication or travel.

Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and
    transmission of confidential and other information in our
    computer systems and networks. Although we take protective
    measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant,
    our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to
    unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code
    and other events that could have a security impact. If one or
    more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our
    or our clients  or counterparties  confidential and
    other information processed and stored in, and transmitted
    through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause
    interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , our
    counterparties  or third parties  operations, which
    could result in significant losses or reputational damage. We
    may be required to expend significant additional resources to
    modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate
    vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to
    litigation and financial losses that are either not insured
    against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by
    us.

We routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and
    proprietary information by email and other electronic means. We
    have discussed and worked with clients, vendors, service
    providers, counterparties and other third parties to develop
    secure transmission capabilities, but we do not have, and may be
    unable to put in place, secure capabilities with all of our
    clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other
    third parties and we may not be able to ensure that these third
    parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the
    confidentiality of the information. An interception, misuse or
    mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information
    being sent to or received from a client, vendor, service
    provider, counterparty or other third party could result in
    legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm.

Conflicts of
    interest are increasing and a failure to appropriately identify
    and deal with conflicts of interest could adversely affect our
    businesses.   

As we have expanded the scope of our businesses and our client
    base, we increasingly must address potential conflicts of
    interest, including situations where our services to a
    particular client or our own investments or other interests
    conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of
    another client, as well as situations where one or more of our
    businesses have access to material
     non-public 
    information that may not be shared with other businesses within
    the firm and situations where we may be a creditor of an entity
    with which we also have an advisory or other relationship.

Our regulators have the ability to scrutinize our activities for
    potential conflicts of interest, including through detailed
    examinations of specific transactions. Our status as a bank
    holding company subjects us to heightened regulation and
    increased regulatory scrutiny by the Federal Reserve Board with
    respect to transactions between GS Bank USA and entities that
    are or could be seen as affiliates of ours.

36

Table of Contents   

We have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to
    identify and address conflicts of interest, including those
    designed to prevent the improper sharing of information among
    our businesses. However, appropriately identifying and dealing
    with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our
    reputation, which is one of our most important assets, could be
    damaged and the willingness of clients to enter into
    transactions in which such a conflict might arise may be
    affected if we fail, or appear to fail, to identify and deal
    appropriately with conflicts of interest. In addition, potential
    or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or
    enforcement actions.

Our businesses
    and those of our clients are subject to extensive and pervasive
    regulation around the world.   

As a participant in the financial services industry, we are
    subject to extensive regulation in jurisdictions around the
    world. We face the risk of significant intervention by
    regulatory authorities in all jurisdictions in which we conduct
    our businesses. Among other things, we could be fined,
    prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities or
    subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities.

In recent years, firms in the financial services industry have
    been operating in a difficult regulatory environment. The
    industry has experienced increased scrutiny from a variety of
    regulators, both within and outside the United States. Penalties
    and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased
    substantially over the last several years, and certain
    regulators have been more likely in recent years to commence
    enforcement actions.

In addition, new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement
    of existing laws or regulations applicable to our businesses or
    those of our clients may adversely affect our businesses. Recent
    market disruptions have led to numerous proposals for changes in
    the regulation of the financial services industry, including
    significant additional regulation. Regulatory changes could lead
    to business disruptions, could impact the value of assets that
    we hold or the scope or profitability of our business
    activities, could require us to change certain of our business
    practices and could expose us to additional costs (including
    compliance costs) and liabilities as well as reputational harm,
    and, to the extent the regulations strictly control the
    activities of financial services firms, make it more difficult
    for us to distinguish ourselves from competitors. For a
    discussion of the extensive regulation to which our businesses
    are subject, see  Business   Regulation  in
    Part I, Item 1 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Our status as a bank holding company and the operation of our
    lending and other businesses through GS Bank USA subject us to
    additional regulation and limitations on our activities, as
    described in  Business   Regulation  
    Banking Regulation  in Part I, Item 1 of our
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    as well as some regulatory uncertainty as we apply banking
    regulations and practices to many of our businesses. The
    application of these regulations and practices may present us
    and our regulators with new or novel issues.

Our firm is subject to regulatory capital requirements at a
    number of levels, as described above under
     Business   Regulation  in Part I,
    Item 1 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    As a bank holding company, we will be subject to capital
    requirements based on Basel I as opposed to the requirements
    based on Basel II that applied to us as a CSE. Complying with
    these requirements may require us to liquidate assets or raise
    capital in a manner that adversely increases our funding costs
    or otherwise adversely affects our shareholders and creditors.
    In addition, failure to meet minimum capital requirements can
    initiate certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary
    actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct
    material adverse effect on our financial condition.

Our agreements
    with the U.S. Treasury and Berkshire Hathaway Inc. impose
    restrictions and obligations on us that limit our ability to
    increase dividends, repurchase our common stock or preferred
    stock and access the equity capital markets.   

In October 2008, we issued preferred stock and a warrant to
    purchase our common stock to the U.S. Treasury as part of
    its TARP Capital Purchase Program. Prior to
    October 28, 2011, unless we have redeemed all of the
    preferred stock or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of
    the preferred stock to a third party, the consent of the
    U.S. Treasury will be required for us to, among other
    things,

37

Table of Contents   

increase our common stock dividend or repurchase our common
    stock or other preferred stock (with certain exceptions,
    including the repurchase of our common stock to offset share
    dilution from
     equity-based 
    employee compensation awards). We have also granted registration
    rights and offering facilitation rights to the
    U.S. Treasury and to Berkshire Hathaway Inc. pursuant to
    which we have agreed to
     lock-up 
    periods during which we would be unable to issue equity
    securities.

Substantial
    legal liability or significant regulatory action against us
    could have material adverse financial effects or cause us
    significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously
    harm our business prospects.   

We face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the
    volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in
    litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial
    institutions remain high. See  Legal Proceedings  in
    Part I, Item 3 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are
    involved. Our experience has been that legal claims by customers
    and clients increase in a market downturn. In addition,
    employment-related claims typically increase in periods when we
    have reduced the total number of employees.

There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving
    fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services
    industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee
    misconduct could occur. It is not always possible to deter or
    prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to
    prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all
    cases.

The growth of
    electronic trading and the introduction of new technology may
    adversely affect our business and may increase
    competition.   

Technology is fundamental to our business and our industry. The
    growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new
    technologies is changing our businesses and presenting us with
    new challenges. Securities, futures and options transactions are
    increasingly occurring electronically, both on our own systems
    and through other alternative trading systems, and it appears
    that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue
    and probably accelerate. Some of these alternative trading
    systems compete with our trading businesses, including our
    specialist businesses, and we may experience continued
    competitive pressures in these and other areas. In addition, the
    increased use by our clients of
     low-cost 
    electronic trading systems and direct electronic access to
    trading markets could cause a reduction in commissions and
    spreads. As our clients increasingly use our systems to trade
    directly in the markets, we may incur liabilities as a result of
    their use of our order routing and execution infrastructure. The
    NYSE s adoption and continued refinement of its hybrid
    market for trading securities may increase pressure on our
    Equities business as clients execute more of their NYSE-related
    trades electronically. We have invested significant resources
    into the development of electronic trading systems and expect to
    continue to do so, but there is no assurance that the revenues
    generated by these systems will yield an adequate return on our
    investment, particularly given the relatively lower commissions
    arising from electronic trades.

Our businesses
    may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain
    qualified employees.   

Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts
    of highly skilled individuals; therefore, our continued ability
    to compete effectively in our businesses, to manage our
    businesses effectively and to expand into new businesses and
    geographic areas depends on our ability to attract new employees
    and to retain and motivate our existing employees. Competition
    from within the financial services industry and from businesses
    outside the financial services industry for qualified employees
    has often been intense. This is particularly the case in
    emerging markets, where we are often competing for qualified
    employees with entities that have a significantly greater
    presence or more extensive experience in the region.

38

Table of Contents   

In fiscal 2008, we significantly reduced compensation levels. In
    addition, the market price of our shares of our common stock
    declined very significantly during the year. A substantial
    portion of our annual bonus compensation paid to our senior
    employees has in recent years been paid in the form of
     equity-based 
    awards. In addition, we reduced the number of employees across
    nearly all of our businesses during the latter portion of the
    year. The combination of these events could adversely affect our
    ability to hire and retain qualified employees.

Our power
    generation interests and related activities subject us to
    extensive regulation, as well as environmental and other risks
    associated with power generation activities.   

The power generation facilities that we own and those that we
    operate, as well as our other power-related activities, are
    subject to extensive and evolving federal, state and local
    energy, environmental and other governmental laws and
    regulations, including environmental laws and regulations
    relating to, among others, air quality, water quality, waste
    management, natural resources, site remediation and health and
    safety.

We may incur substantial costs (including being required to
    cease or curtail operations of one or more of our power
    generation facilities) in complying with current or future laws
    and regulations relating to electric power generation and
    wholesale sales and trading of electricity and natural gas,
    including having to commit significant capital toward
    environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control
    equipment, payment of emission fees and carbon or other taxes,
    and application for, and holding of, permits and licenses at our
    power generation facilities. Our power generation facilities are
    also subject to the risk of unforeseen or catastrophic events,
    many of which are outside of our control, including breakdown or
    failure of power generation equipment, transmission lines or
    other equipment or processes or other mechanical malfunctions,
    performance below expected levels of output or efficiency,
    terrorist attacks, natural disasters or other hostile or
    catastrophic events. In addition, these facilities could be
    adversely affected by the failure of any of our third party
    suppliers or service providers to perform their contractual
    obligations, including the failure to obtain raw materials
    necessary for operation at reasonable prices. Market conditions
    or other factors could cause a failure to satisfy or obtain
    waivers under agreements with third parties, including lenders
    and utilities, which impose significant obligations on our
    subsidiaries that own such facilities. In addition, we may not
    have insurance against the risks that such facilities face or
    the insurance that we have may be inadequate to cover our losses.

The occurrence of any of such events may prevent the affected
    facilities from performing under applicable power sales
    agreements, may impair their operations or financial results and
    may result in litigation or other reputational harm.

In conducting
    our businesses around the world, we are subject to political,
    economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent
    in operating in many countries.   

In conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our
    global operations, we are subject to risks of possible
    nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital
    controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental
    actions, as well the outbreak of hostilities or acts of
    terrorism. In many countries, the laws and regulations
    applicable to the securities and financial services industries
    and many of the transactions in which we are involved are
    uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to
    determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market.
    Any determination by local regulators that we have not acted in
    compliance with the application of local laws in a particular
    market or our failure to develop effective working relationships
    with local regulators could have a significant and negative
    effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our
    reputation generally. We are also subject to the enhanced risk
    that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable
    in all cases.

Our businesses and operations are increasingly expanding into
    new regions throughout the world, including emerging markets,
    and we expect this trend to continue. Various emerging market

39

Table of Contents   

countries have experienced severe economic and financial
    disruptions, including significant devaluations of their
    currencies, defaults or threatened defaults on sovereign debt,
    capital and currency exchange controls, and low or negative
    growth rates in their economies, as well as military activity or
    acts of terrorism. The possible effects of any of these
    conditions include an adverse impact on our businesses and
    increased volatility in financial markets generally.

We may incur
    losses as a result of unforeseen or catastrophic events,
    including the emergence of a pandemic, terrorist attacks or
    natural disasters.   

The occurrence of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including
    the emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency
    (or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency),
    terrorist attacks or natural disasters, could create economic
    and financial disruptions, could lead to operational
    difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair
    our ability to manage our businesses, and could expose our
    insurance subsidiaries to significant losses.

Item 1B.    

Unresolved
    Staff Comments  

There are no material unresolved written comments that were
    received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end
    of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports
    under the Exchange Act.

Item 2.    

Properties  

Our principal executive offices are located at 85 Broad
    Street, New York, New York, and comprise approximately one
    million rentable square feet of leased space, pursuant to a
    lease agreement expiring in June 2011. We also occupy over
    680,000 rentable square feet at One New York Plaza under lease
    agreements expiring primarily in 2010 (with options to renew for
    up to five additional years), and we lease space at various
    other locations in the New York metropolitan area. In total, we
    lease approximately 3.7 million rentable square feet in the
    New York metropolitan area.

In August 2005, we leased from Battery Park City Authority
    a parcel of land in lower Manhattan, pursuant to a ground lease.
    We are currently constructing a 2.1 million gross square
    foot office building on the site that will serve as our
    headquarters. Under the lease, Battery Park City Authority holds
    title to all improvements, including the office building,
    subject to Goldman Sachs  right of exclusive possession and
    use until June 2069, the expiration date of the lease.

Under the terms of the ground lease, we made a lump-sum ground
    rent payment in June 2007 of $161 million, which was
    paid into escrow, to be released to the Battery Park City
    Authority pending performance of specified state and city
    obligations. We are required to make additional periodic
    payments during the term of the lease. We are obligated under
    the ground lease to construct the office building by 2011
    (subject to extensions in the case of force majeure) in
    accordance with certain
     pre-approved 
    design standards. Construction began on the building in
    November 2005, and we expect construction completion and
    initial occupancy of the building during 2009. The building is
    projected to cost between $2.1 billion and
    $2.3 billion, including acquisition, development, fitout
    and furnishings, financing and other related costs.

We are receiving significant benefits from the City and State of
    New York based on our agreement to construct our headquarters in
    lower Manhattan. These benefits are subject to recoupment or
    recapture if we do not satisfy our obligations under these
    agreements with the City and State of New York.

We have offices at 30 Hudson Street in Jersey City, New Jersey,
    which we own and which include approximately 1.6 million
    gross square feet of office space, and we own over 575,000
    square feet of additional office space spread among four
    locations in New York and New Jersey. We have additional offices
    in the U.S. and elsewhere in the Americas, which together
    comprise approximately 2.9 million rentable square feet of
    leased space.

40

Table of Contents   

In Europe, the Middle East and Africa, we have offices that
    total approximately 2.2 million rentable square feet. Our
    European headquarters is located in London at Peterborough
    Court, pursuant to a lease expiring in 2026. In total, we lease
    approximately 1.6 million rentable square feet in London
    through various leases, relating to various properties.

In Asia, we have offices that total approximately
    1.5 million rentable square feet. Our headquarters in this
    region are in Tokyo, at the Roppongi Hills Mori Tower, and in
    Hong Kong, at the Cheung Kong Center. In Tokyo, we currently
    lease approximately 415,000 rentable square feet, the majority
    of which will expire in 2018. In Hong Kong, we currently lease
    approximately 295,000 rentable square feet under lease
    agreements, the majority of which will expire in 2011.

Our occupancy expenses include costs associated with office
    space held in excess of our current requirements. This excess
    space, the cost of which is charged to earnings as incurred, is
    being held for potential growth or to replace currently occupied
    space that we may exit in the future. We regularly evaluate our
    current and future space capacity in relation to current and
    projected staffing levels. In 2008, we incurred exit costs of
    $80 million related to our office space. We may incur exit
    costs in the future to the extent we (i) reduce our space
    capacity or (ii) commit to, or occupy, new properties in
    the locations in which we operate and, consequently, dispose of
    existing space that had been held for potential growth. These
    exit costs may be material to our results of operations in a
    given period.

Item 3.    

Legal
    Proceedings  

We are involved in a number of judicial, regulatory and
    arbitration proceedings (including those described below)
    concerning matters arising in connection with the conduct of our
    businesses. We believe, based on currently available
    information, that the results of such proceedings, in the
    aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition, but might be material to our operating
    results for any particular period, depending, in part, upon the
    operating results for such period. Given the range of litigation
    and investigations presently under way, our litigation expenses
    can be expected to remain high.

IPO Process
    Matters  

Group Inc. and GS Co. are among the numerous financial
    services companies that have been named as defendants in a
    variety of lawsuits alleging improprieties in the process by
    which those companies participated in the underwriting of public
    offerings in recent years.

GS Co. has, together with other underwriters in certain
    offerings as well as the issuers and certain of their officers
    and directors, been named as a defendant in a number of related
    lawsuits filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern
    District of New York alleging, among other things, that the
    prospectuses for the offerings violated the federal securities
    laws by failing to disclose the existence of alleged
    arrangements tying allocations in certain offerings to higher
    customer brokerage commission rates as well as purchase orders
    in the aftermarket, and that the alleged arrangements resulted
    in market manipulation. The federal district court denied a
    motion to dismiss in all material respects relating to the
    underwriter defendants and generally granted plaintiffs 
    motion for class certification in six  focus cases. 
    The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed
    the district court s order granting class certification,
    denied plaintiffs  applications for rehearing and rehearing
    en banc, and remanded. On August 14, 2007, plaintiffs
    amended their complaints in the six  focus cases  as
    well as their master allegations for all such cases to reflect
    new class related allegations. On September 27, 2007,
    plaintiffs filed a new motion for class certification in the
    district court, and on November 14, 2007, GS Co.
    and the other defendants moved to dismiss the amended
    complaints. Following a mediation, a settlement in principle has
    been reached, subject to negotiation of definitive documentation
    and court approval.

GS Co. is among numerous underwriting firms named as
    defendants in a number of complaints filed commencing
    October 3, 2007, in the U.S. District Court for
    the Western District of Washington alleging violations of the
    federal securities laws in connection with offerings of
    securities for 16 issuers

41

Table of Contents   

during 1999 and 2000. The complaints generally assert that the
    underwriters, together with each issuer s directors,
    officers and principal shareholders, entered into purported
    agreements to tie allocations in the offerings to increased
    brokerage commissions and aftermarket purchase orders. The
    complaints further allege that, based upon these and other
    purported agreements, the underwriters violated the reporting
    provisions of, and are subject to
     short-swing 
    profit recovery under, Section 16 of the Exchange Act. On
    October 29, 2007, the cases were reassigned to a
    single district judge. On July 25, 2008, defendants
    moved to dismiss the various complaints.

GS Co. has been named as a defendant in an action commenced
    on May 15, 2002 in New York Supreme Court, New York
    County, by an official committee of unsecured creditors on
    behalf of eToys, Inc., alleging that the firm intentionally
    underpriced eToys, Inc. s initial public offering. The
    action seeks, among other things, unspecified compensatory
    damages resulting from the alleged lower amount of offering
    proceeds. The court granted GS Co. s motion to dismiss
    as to five of the claims; plaintiff appealed from the dismissal
    of the five claims, and GS Co. appealed from the denial of
    its motion as to the remaining claim. The New York Appellate
    Division, First Department affirmed in part and reversed in part
    the lower court s ruling on the firm s motion to
    dismiss, permitting all claims to proceed except the claim for
    fraud, as to which the appellate court granted leave to replead,
    and the New York Court of Appeals affirmed in part and reversed
    in part, dismissing claims for breach of contract, professional
    malpractice and unjust enrichment, but permitting claims for
    breach of fiduciary duty and fraud to continue. On remand to the
    lower court, GS Co. moved to dismiss the surviving claims
    or, in the alternative, for summary judgment, but the motion was
    denied by a decision dated March 21, 2006. Plaintiff
    has moved for leave to amend the complaint again, and
    GS Co. has cross-moved to dismiss.

Group Inc. and certain of its affiliates have, together with
    various underwriters in certain offerings, received subpoenas
    and requests for documents and information from various
    governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations in
    connection with investigations relating to the public offering
    process. Goldman Sachs has cooperated with these investigations.

Iridium
    Securities Litigation  

GS Co. has been named as a defendant in two purported class
    action lawsuits commenced, beginning on May 26, 1999,
    in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia
    brought on behalf of purchasers of Class A common stock of
    Iridium World Communications, Ltd. in a January 1999
    underwritten secondary offering of 7,500,000 shares of
    Class A common stock. All parties entered into settlement
    agreements, with the underwriter defendants contributing
    $8.25 million to a settlement fund. The settlement was
    approved by the Court by order dated October 23, 2008
    and has become final.

World Online
    Litigation  

Several lawsuits have been commenced in the Netherlands courts
    based on alleged misstatements and omissions relating to the
    initial public offering of World Online in March 2000.
    Goldman Sachs and ABN AMRO Rothschild served as joint global
    coordinators of the approximately  2.9 billion
    offering. GSI underwrote 20,268,846 shares and GS Co.
    underwrote 6,756,282 shares for a total offering price of
    approximately  1.16 billion.

On September 11, 2000, several Dutch World Online
    shareholders as well as a Dutch entity purporting to represent
    the interests of certain World Online shareholders commenced a
    proceeding in Amsterdam District Court against  ABN AMRO
    Bank N.V., also acting under the name of ABN AMRO
    Rothschild,  alleging misrepresentations and omissions
    relating to the initial public offering of World Online. The
    lawsuit seeks, among other things, the return of the purchase
    price of the shares purchased by the plaintiffs or unspecified
    damages. The court held that the claims failed and dismissed the
    complaint and the Amsterdam Court of Appeal affirmed dismissal
    of the complaint.

In March 2001, a Dutch shareholders association initiated
    legal proceedings for an unspecified amount of damages against
    GSI in Amsterdam District Court in connection with the World
    Online

42

Table of Contents   

offering. The court rejected the claims against GSI, but found
    World Online liable in an amount to be determined. The Dutch
    shareholders association appealed from the dismissal of their
    claims against GSI. By a decision dated May 3, 2007,
    the Netherlands Court of Appeals affirmed in part and reversed
    in part the decision of the district court dismissing the
    complaint, holding that certain of the alleged disclosure
    deficiencies were actionable. On July 24, 2007, the
    shareholder association appealed from the Netherlands Court of
    Appeals decision to the extent that it affirmed the decision of
    the district court dismissing the complaint. On
    November 2, 2007, GSI joined the other defendants in
    appealing from the Court of Appeals decision to the extent that
    it reversed the district court s dismissal.

Research
    Independence Matters  

GS Co. is one of several investment firms that have been
    named as defendants in substantively identical purported class
    actions filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern
    District of New York alleging violations of the federal
    securities laws in connection with research coverage of certain
    issuers and seeking compensatory damages. In one such action,
    relating to coverage of RSL Communications, Inc. commenced on
    July 15, 2003, GS Co. s motion to dismiss
    the complaint was denied. The district court granted the
    plaintiffs  motion for class certification and the
    U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, by an order
    dated January 26, 2007, vacated the district court s
    class certification and remanded for reconsideration.

GS Co. is also a defendant in several actions relating to
    research coverage of Exodus Communications, Inc. that commenced
    beginning in May 2003. The actions were consolidated,
    Goldman, Sachs   Co. s motion to dismiss was
    granted with leave to replead, and plaintiff filed a second
    amended complaint. The defendants  motion to dismiss the
    second amended complaint was granted by order dated
    December 4, 2007, and plaintiff s motion for
    reconsideration was denied by order dated
    June 3, 2008. Plaintiff appealed the dismissal, and
    while the appeal was pending, the parties entered into a
    settlement agreement on a
     non-class 
    basis, disposing of the case.

A purported shareholder derivative action was filed in New York
    Supreme Court, New York County on June 13, 2003
    against Group Inc. and its board of directors, which, as amended
    on March 3, 2004 and June 14, 2005, alleges
    that the directors breached their fiduciary duties in connection
    with the firm s research as well as the firm s IPO
    allocations practices.

Group Inc., GS Co. and Henry M. Paulson, Jr., the former
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Group Inc., have been
    named as defendants in a purported class action filed originally
    on July 18, 2003 in the U.S. District Court for
    the District of Nevada on behalf of purchasers of Group Inc.
    stock from July 1, 1999 through May 7, 2002.
    The complaint alleges that defendants breached their fiduciary
    duties and violated the federal securities laws in connection
    with the firm s research activities. The complaint seeks,
    among other things, unspecified compensatory damages
     and/or 
    rescission. The action was transferred on consent to the
    U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York,
    and the district court granted the defendants  motion to
    dismiss with leave to amend. Plaintiffs filed a second amended
    complaint, and defendants filed a motion to dismiss. In a
    decision dated September 29, 2006, the federal
    district court granted Mr. Paulson s motion to dismiss
    with leave to replead but otherwise denied the motion.
    Plaintiffs  motion for class certification was granted by a
    decision dated September 15, 2008, and on
    September 26, 2008, the Goldman Sachs defendants filed
    a petition in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
    Circuit seeking review of the certification ruling.

Group Inc. and its affiliates, together with other financial
    services firms, have received requests for information from
    various governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations
    in connection with their review of research independence issues.
    Goldman Sachs has cooperated with these requests. See
     Business   Regulation   Regulations
    Applicable in and Outside the United States  in
    Part I, Item 1 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for a discussion of our global research settlement.

43

Table of Contents   

Enron Litigation
    Matters  

Goldman Sachs affiliates are defendants in certain actions
    relating to Enron Corp., which filed for protection under the
    U.S. bankruptcy laws on December 2, 2001.

GS Co. and co-managing underwriters have been named as
    defendants in certain purported securities class and individual
    actions commenced beginning on December 14, 2001 in
    the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas
    and California Superior Court brought by purchasers of
    $255,875,000, (including
     over-allotments) 
    of Exchangeable Notes of Enron Corp. in August 1999. The
    notes were mandatorily exchangeable in 2002 into shares of Enron
    Oil   Gas Company held by Enron Corp. or their cash
    equivalent. The complaints also name as defendants Group Inc. as
    well as certain past and present officers and directors of Enron
    Corp. and the company s outside accounting firm. The
    complaints generally allege violations of the disclosure
    requirements of the federal securities laws
     and/or  state
    law, and seek compensatory damages. GS Co. underwrote
    $127,937,500 (including
     over-allotments) 
    principal amount of the notes. Group Inc. and GS Co. moved
    to dismiss the class action complaint in the Texas federal court
    and the motion was granted as to Group Inc. but denied as to
    GS Co. One of the plaintiffs has moved for class
    certification. GS Co. has moved for judgment on the
    pleadings against all plaintiffs. On October 18, 2007,
    the parties reached a settlement agreement in principle pursuant
    to which GS Co. has contributed $11.5 million to a
    settlement fund, subject to definitive documentation and court
    approval. Plaintiffs in various consolidated actions relating to
    Enron entered into a settlement with Banc of America Securities
    LLC on July 2, 2004 and with Citigroup, Inc. on
    June 10, 2005, including with respect to claims
    relating to the Exchangeable Notes offering, as to which
    affiliates of those settling defendants were two of the three
    underwriters (together with GS Co.).

Several funds which allegedly sustained investment losses of
    approximately $125 million in connection with secondary
    market purchases of the Exchangeable Notes as well as Zero
    Coupon Convertible Notes of Enron Corp. commenced an action in
    the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
    York on January 16, 2002. As amended, the lawsuit
    names as defendants the underwriters of the August 1999
    offering and the company s outside accounting firm, and
    alleges violations of the disclosure requirements of the federal
    securities laws, fraud and misrepresentation. The Judicial Panel
    on Multidistrict Litigation has transferred that action to the
    Texas federal district court for purposes of coordinated or
    consolidated pretrial proceedings with other matters relating to
    Enron Corp. GS Co. moved to dismiss the complaint and the
    motion was granted in part and denied in part. The district
    court granted the funds  motion for leave to file a second
    amended complaint on January 22, 2007.

GS Co. is among numerous defendants in two substantively
    identical actions filed by Enron Corp. s bankruptcy trustee
    in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of
    New York beginning in November 2003 seeking to recover as
    fraudulent transfers
     and/or 
    preferences payments made by Enron Corp. in repurchasing its
    commercial paper shortly before its bankruptcy filing.
    GS Co., which had acted as a commercial paper dealer for
    Enron Corp., resold to Enron Corp. approximately
    $30 million of commercial paper as principal, and as an
    agent facilitated Enron Corp. s repurchase of approximately
    $340 million additional commercial paper from various
    customers who have also been named as defendants. The bankruptcy
    court denied GS Co. s motion to dismiss as well as
    similar motions by other defendants. On
    August 1, 2005, various defendants including
    GS Co. petitioned to have the denial of their motion to
    dismiss reviewed by the U.S. District Court for the
    Southern District of New York. On March 10, 2008, the
    district court denied GS Co. s motion to remove the
    standing reference at the present time. On
    April 29, 2008, GS Co. moved for summary
    judgment. On January 6, 2009, GS Co. entered into
    a settlement with the trustee pursuant to which it will pay
    $6.95 million in exchange for a release and a bar order
    against any third party claims. The settlement was approved by
    the bankruptcy court on January 21, 2009.

44

Table of Contents   

Exodus Securities
    Litigation  

By an amended complaint dated July 11, 2002,
    GS Co. and the other lead underwriters for the
    February 2001 offering of 13,000,000 shares of common
    stock and $575,000,000 of
    5 1 / 4 %
    convertible subordinated notes of Exodus Communications, Inc.
    were added as defendants in a purported class action pending in
    the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
    California. The complaint, which also names as defendants
    certain officers and directors of Exodus Communications, Inc.,
    alleged violations of the disclosure requirements of the federal
    securities laws and seeks compensatory damages. The parties
    entered into a settlement agreement, with the underwriter
    defendants contributing $1 million toward a settlement
    fund. The settlement was approved by the district court on
    October 31, 2008 and has become final.

Montana Power
    Litigation  

GS Co. and Group Inc. have been named as defendants in a
    purported class action commenced originally on
    October 1, 2001 in Montana District Court, Second
    Judicial District on behalf of former shareholders of Montana
    Power Company. The complaint generally alleges that Montana
    Power Company violated Montana law by failing to procure
    shareholder approval of certain corporate strategies and
    transactions, that the company s board breached its
    fiduciary duties in pursuing those strategies and transactions,
    and that GS Co. aided and abetted the board s breaches
    and rendered negligent advice in its role as financial advisor
    to the company. The complaint seeks, among other things,
    compensatory damages. In addition to GS Co. and Group Inc.,
    the defendants include Montana Power Company, certain of its
    officers and directors, an outside law firm for the Montana
    Power Company, and certain companies that purchased assets from
    Montana Power Company and its affiliates. The Montana state
    court denied the Goldman Sachs defendants  motions to
    dismiss. Following the bankruptcies of certain defendants in the
    action, defendants removed the action to federal court, the
    U.S. District Court for the District of Montana, Butte
    Division.

On October 26, 2004, a creditors committee of Touch
    America Holdings, Inc. brought an action against GS Co.,
    Group Inc., and a former outside law firm for Montana Power
    Company in Montana District Court, Second Judicial District. The
    complaint asserts that Touch America Holdings, Inc. is the
    successor to Montana Power Corporation and alleges substantially
    the same claims as in the purported class action. Defendants
    removed the action to federal court. Defendants moved to dismiss
    the complaint, but the motion was denied by a decision dated
    June 10, 2005.

Adelphia
    Communications Fraudulent Conveyance Litigation  

GS Co. is among numerous entities named as defendants in
    two adversary proceedings commenced in the U.S. Bankruptcy
    Court for the Southern District of New York, one on
    July 6, 2003 by a creditors committee, and the second
    on or about July 31, 2003 by an equity committee of
    Adelphia Communications, Inc. Those proceedings have now been
    consolidated in a single amended complaint filed by the Adelphia
    Recovery Trust on October 31, 2007. The complaint
    seeks, among other things, to recover, as fraudulent
    conveyances, payments made allegedly by Adelphia Communications,
    Inc. and its affiliates to certain brokerage firms, including
    approximately $62.9 million allegedly paid to GS Co.,
    in respect of margin calls made in the ordinary course of
    business on accounts owned by members of the family that
    formerly controlled Adelphia Communications, Inc. GS Co.
    moved to dismiss the claim related to such margin payments on
    December 21, 2007.

Specialist
    Matters  

Spear, Leeds   Kellogg Specialists LLC (SLKS) and
    certain affiliates have received requests for information from
    various governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations
    as part of an
     industry-wide 
    investigation relating to activities of floor specialists in
    recent years. Goldman Sachs has cooperated with the requests.

45

Table of Contents   

On March 30, 2004, certain specialist firms on the
    NYSE, including SLKS, without admitting or denying the
    allegations, entered into a final global settlement with the SEC
    and the NYSE covering certain activities during the years 1999
    through 2003. The SLKS settlement involves, among other things,
    (i) findings by the SEC and the NYSE that SLKS violated
    certain federal securities laws and NYSE rules, and in some
    cases failed to supervise certain individual specialists, in
    connection with trades that allegedly disadvantaged customer
    orders, (ii) a cease and desist order against SLKS,
    (iii) a censure of SLKS, (iv) SLKS  agreement to
    pay an aggregate of $45.3 million in disgorgement and a
    penalty to be used to compensate customers, (v) certain
    undertakings with respect to SLKS  systems and procedures,
    and (v) SLKS  retention of an independent consultant
    to review and evaluate certain of SLKS  compliance systems,
    policies and procedures. Comparable findings were made and
    sanctions imposed in the settlements with other specialist
    firms. The settlement did not resolve the related private civil
    actions against SLKS and other firms or regulatory
    investigations involving individuals or conduct on other
    exchanges.

SLKS, Spear, Leeds   Kellogg, L.P. and Group Inc. are
    among numerous defendants named in purported class actions
    brought beginning in October 2003 on behalf of investors in
    the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
    York alleging violations of the federal securities laws and
    state common law in connection with NYSE floor specialist
    activities. The actions seek unspecified compensatory damages,
    restitution and disgorgement on behalf of purchasers and sellers
    of unspecified securities between October 17, 1998 and
    October 15, 2003. Plaintiffs filed a consolidated
    amended complaint on September 16, 2004. The
    defendants  motion to dismiss the amended complaint was
    granted in part and denied in part by a decision dated
    December 13, 2005. On June 28, 2007,
    plaintiffs filed a motion seeking to certify a class.

Treasury
    Matters  

On September 4, 2003, the SEC announced that
    GS Co. had settled an administrative proceeding arising
    from certain trading in U.S. Treasury bonds over an
    approximately eight-minute period after GS Co. received an
    October 31, 2001 telephone call from a Washington,
    D.C.-based political consultant concerning a forthcoming
    Treasury refunding announcement. Without admitting or denying
    the allegations, GS Co. consented to the entry of an order
    that, among other things, (i) censured GS Co.;
    (ii) directed GS Co. to cease and desist from
    committing or causing any violations of
    Sections 15(c)(1)(A) and (C) and 15(f) of, and
     Rule 15c1-2 
    under, the Exchange Act; (iii) ordered GS Co. to pay
    disgorgement and prejudgment interest in the amount of
    $1,742,642, and a civil monetary penalty of $5 million; and
    (iv) directed GS Co. to conduct a review of its
    policies and procedures and adopt, implement and maintain
    policies and procedures consistent with the order and that
    review. GS Co. also undertook to pay $2,562,740 in
    disgorgement and interest relating to certain trading in
    U.S. Treasury bond futures during the same eight-minute
    period.

GS Co. has been named as a defendant in a purported class
    action filed on March 10, 2004 in the
    U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois
    on behalf of holders of short positions in
     30-year 
    U.S. Treasury futures and options on the morning of
    October 31, 2001. The complaint alleges that the firm
    purchased
     30-year 
    bonds and futures prior to the Treasury s refunding
    announcement that morning based on
     non-public 
    information about that announcement, and that such purchases
    increased the costs of covering such short positions. The
    complaint also names as defendants the Washington, D.C.-based
    political consultant who allegedly was the source of the
    information, a former GS Co. economist who allegedly
    received the information, and another company and one of its
    employees who also allegedly received and traded on the
    information prior to its public announcement. The complaint
    alleges violations of the federal commodities and antitrust
    laws, as well as Illinois statutory and common law, and seeks,
    among other things, unspecified damages including treble damages
    under the antitrust laws. The district court dismissed the
    antitrust and Illinois state law claims but permitted the
    federal commodities law claims to proceed. Plaintiff s
    motion for class certification was denied by a decision dated
    August 22, 2008. GS Co. moved for summary
    judgment, and by a decision dated July 30, 2008, the
    district court granted the motion insofar as the remaining

46

Table of Contents   

claim relates to the trading of treasury bonds, but denied the
    motion without prejudice to the extent the claim relates to
    trading of treasury futures.

Mutual
    Fund Matters  

GS Co. and certain mutual fund affiliates have received
    subpoenas and requests for information from various governmental
    agencies and self-regulatory organizations including the SEC as
    part of the
     industry-wide 
    investigation relating to the practices of mutual funds and
    their customers. GS Co. and its affiliates have cooperated
    with such requests.

Refco Securities
    Litigation  

GS Co. and the other lead underwriters for the
    August 2005 initial public offering of
    26,500,000 shares of common stock of Refco Inc. are among
    the defendants in various putative class actions filed in the
    U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
    beginning in October 2005 by investors in Refco Inc. in
    response to certain publicly reported events that culminated in
    the October 17, 2005 filing by Refco Inc. and certain
    affiliates for protection under U.S. bankruptcy laws. The
    actions, which have been consolidated, allege violations of the
    disclosure requirements of the federal securities laws and seek
    compensatory damages. In addition to the underwriters, the
    consolidated complaint names as defendants Refco Inc. and
    certain of its affiliates, certain officers and directors of
    Refco Inc., Thomas H. Lee Partners, L.P. (which held a majority
    of Refco Inc. s equity through certain funds it manages),
    Grant Thornton (Refco Inc. s outside auditor), and BAWAG
    P.S.K. Bank fur Arbeit und Wirtschaft und Osterreichische
    Postsparkasse Aktiengesellschaft (BAWAG). Lead plaintiffs
    entered into a settlement with BAWAG, which was approved
    following certain amendments on June 29, 2007.
    GS Co. underwrote 5,639,200 shares of common stock at
    a price of $22 per share for a total offering price of
    approximately $124 million.

A purported shareholder derivative action was filed in the
    U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
    on November 2, 2005 on behalf of Group Inc. against
    certain of its officers and directors. The complaint alleges
    that the individual defendants breached their fiduciary duties
    by failing to ensure that adequate due diligence was conducted
    in connection with the Refco Inc. initial public offering. The
    parties subsequently stipulated to the action s dismissal,
    and the action was dismissed by the district court by order
    dated January 7, 2009.

GS Co. has, together with other underwriters of the Refco
    Inc. initial public offering, received requests for information
    from various governmental agencies and self-regulatory
    organizations. GS Co. is cooperating with those requests.

Short-Selling 
    Litigation  

Group Inc., GS Co. and Goldman Sachs Execution  
    Clearing, L.P. are among the numerous financial services firms
    that have been named as defendants in a purported class action
    filed on April 12, 2006 in the U.S. District
    Court for the Southern District of New York by customers who
    engaged in
     short-selling 
    transactions in equity securities since
    April 12, 2000. The amended complaint generally
    alleges that the customers were charged fees in connection with
    the short sales but that the applicable securities were not
    necessarily borrowed to effect delivery, resulting in failed
    deliveries, and that the defendants conspired to set a minimum
    threshold borrowing rate for securities designated as hard to
    borrow. The complaint asserts a claim under the federal
    antitrust laws, as well as claims under the New York Business
    Law and common law, and seeks treble damages as well as
    injunctive relief. Defendants  motion to dismiss the
    complaint was granted by a decision dated
    December 20, 2007. On January 18, 2008,
    plaintiffs appealed from this decision.

Fannie Mae
    Litigation  

GS Co. was added as a defendant in an amended complaint
    filed on August 14, 2006 in a purported class action
    pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of
    Columbia. The complaint

47

Table of Contents   

asserts violations of the federal securities laws generally
    arising from allegations concerning Fannie Mae s accounting
    practices in connection with certain Fannie Mae-sponsored REMIC
    transactions that were allegedly arranged by GS Co. The
    other defendants include Fannie Mae, certain of its past and
    present officers and directors, and accountants. By a decision
    dated May 8, 2007, the district court granted
    GS Co. s motion to dismiss the claim against it. The
    time for an appeal will not begin to run until disposition of
    the claims against other defendants.

Beginning in September 2006, Group Inc.
     and/or 
    GS Co. were added named as defendants in four Fannie Mae
    shareholder derivative actions in the U.S. District Court
    for the District of Columbia. The complaints generally allege
    that the Goldman Sachs defendants aided and abetted a breach of
    fiduciary duty by Fannie Mae s directors and officers in
    connection with certain Fannie Mae-sponsored REMIC transactions
    and one of the complaints also asserts a breach of contract
    claim. The complaints also name as defendants certain former
    officers and directors of Fannie Mae as well as an outside
    accounting firm. The complaints seek,  inter alia ,
    unspecified damages. The Goldman Sachs defendants were dismissed
    without prejudice from the first filed of these actions, and the
    remaining claims in that action were dismissed for failure to
    make a demand on Fannie Mae s board of directors. That
    dismissal has been affirmed on appeal. The remaining three
    actions have been stayed by the district court.

General American
    Litigation  

On February 13, 2007, the liquidators of General
    American Mutual Holding Corporation filed a complaint in
    Missouri Circuit Court against one of the company s former
    officers to assert claims against Group Inc. and GS Co. The
    amended complaint asserted that the Goldman Sachs defendants
    breached certain duties and violated Missouri law in the course
    of acting as the company s financial advisor during
     1998-1999  in
    connection with the exploration of a potential demutualization
    and initial public offering, and the ensuing sale of certain
    company assets. The complaint sought compensatory and punitive
    damages. The parties settled the action, with the Goldman Sachs
    defendants paying $99.975 million. The settlement was
    approved by order dated November 6, 2008.

Executive
    Compensation Litigation  

On March 16, 2007, Group Inc., its board of directors,
    executive officers and members of its management committee were
    named as defendants in a purported shareholder derivative action
    in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New
    York challenging the sufficiency of the firm s
    February 21, 2007 Proxy Statement and the compensation
    of certain employees. The complaint generally alleges that the
    Proxy Statement undervalues stock option awards disclosed
    therein, that the recipients received excessive awards because
    the proper methodology was not followed, and that the
    firm s senior management received excessive compensation,
    constituting corporate waste. The complaint seeks, among other
    things, an injunction against the 2007 Annual Meeting of
    Shareholders, the voiding of any election of directors in the
    absence of an injunction and an equitable accounting for the
    allegedly excessive compensation. On July 20, 2007,
    defendants moved to dismiss the complaint, the motion was
    granted by an order dated December 18, 2008 and
    plaintiff appealed on January 13, 2009.

On January 17, 2008, Group Inc., its board of
    directors, executive officers and members of its management
    committee were named as defendants in a related purported
    shareholder derivative action brought by the same plaintiff in
    the same court predicting that the firm s 2008 Proxy
    Statement will violate the federal securities laws by
    undervaluing certain stock option awards and alleging that
    senior management received excessive compensation for 2007. The
    complaint seeks, among other things, an injunction against the
    distribution of the 2008 Proxy Statement, the voiding of any
    election

48

Table of Contents   

of directors in the absence of an injunction and an equitable
    accounting for the allegedly excessive compensation. On
    January 25, 2008, the plaintiff moved for a
    preliminary injunction to prevent the 2008 Proxy Statement from
    using options valuations that the plaintiff alleges are
    incorrect and to require the amendment of SEC Form 4s filed
    by certain of the executive officers named in the complaint to
    reflect the stock option valuations alleged by the plaintiff.
    Plaintiff s motion for a preliminary injunction was denied
    by order dated February 14, 2008, plaintiff appealed
    and twice moved to expedite the appeal, with the motions being
    denied by orders dated February 29, 2008 and
    April 3, 2008.

Mortgage-Related 
    Matters  

GS Co. and certain of its affiliates, together with other
    financial services firms, have received requests for information
    from various governmental agencies and self-regulatory
    organizations relating to subprime mortgages, and
    securitizations, collateralized debt obligations and synthetic
    products related to subprime mortgages. GS Co. and its
    affiliates are cooperating with the requests.

GS Co., along with numerous other financial institutions,
    is a defendant in an action brought by the City of Cleveland
    alleging that the defendants  activities in connection with
    securitizations of subprime mortgages created a  public
    nuisance  in Cleveland. The action is pending in the
    U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, and
    the complaint seeks, among other things, unspecified
    compensatory damages. Defendants moved to dismiss on
    November 24, 2008.

GS Co., Goldman Sachs Mortgage Company and GS Mortgage
    Securities Corp. are among the defendants in a purported class
    action commenced on December 11, 2008 in the U.S. District
    Court for the Southern District of New York brought on behalf of
    purchasers of various mortgage pass-through certificates and
    asset-backed certificates issued by various securitization
    trusts in 2007 and underwritten by GS Co. The other
    defendants include the various issuer trusts that issued the
    securities as well as certain officers and directors of certain
    of the entity defendants. The complaint generally alleges that
    the registration statement and prospectus supplements for the
    certificates violated the federal securities laws. The complaint
    asserts claims against the issuer trusts and GS Co. under
    Section 11 of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 (Securities
    Act), and a related  controlling person  claim against
    the other defendants under Section 15 of the Securities
    Act, and seeks unspecified compensatory damages and rescission
    or recessionary damages.

Auction Products
    Matters  

On August 21, 2008, GS Co. entered into a
    settlement in principle with the Office of Attorney General of
    the State of New York and the Illinois Securities Department (on
    behalf of the North American Securities Administrators
    Association) regarding auction rate securities. Under the
    agreement, Goldman Sachs agreed, among other things, (i) to
    offer to repurchase at par the outstanding auction rate
    securities that its private wealth management clients purchased
    through the firm prior to February 11, 2008, with the
    exception of those auction rate securities where auctions are
    clearing, (ii) to continue to work with issuers and other
    interested parties, including regulatory and governmental
    entities, to expeditiously provide liquidity solutions for
    institutional investors, and (iii) to pay a
    $22.5 million fine. The settlement, which is subject to
    definitive documentation and approval by the various states,
    does not resolve any potential regulatory action by the SEC.

On August 28, 2008, a putative shareholder derivative
    action was filed in the U.S. District Court for the
    Southern District of New York naming as defendants Group Inc.,
    its board of directors, and certain senior officers. The
    complaint alleges generally that the board breached its
    fiduciary duties and committed mismanagement in connection with
    its oversight of auction rate securities marketing and trading
    operations, that certain individual defendants engaged in
    insider selling by selling shares of Group Inc., and that the
    firm s public filings were false and misleading in
    violation of the federal securities laws by failing to
    accurately disclose the alleged practices involving auction rate
    securities. The complaint seeks damages, injunctive and
    declaratory relief, restitution, and an order requiring the firm
    to adopt corporate reforms. Defendants moved to dismiss on
    January 23, 2009.

49

Table of Contents   

On September 4, 2008, Group Inc. was named as a
    defendant, together with numerous other financial services
    firms, in two complaints filed in the U.S. District Court
    for the Southern District of New York alleging that the
    defendants engaged in a conspiracy to manipulate the auction
    securities market in violation of federal antitrust laws. The
    actions were filed, respectively, on behalf of putative classes
    of issuers of and investors in auction rate securities and seek,
    among other things, treble damages. Defendants moved to dismiss
    on January 15, 2009.

Private
     Equity-Sponsored 
    Acquisitions Litigation  

Group Inc. and  GS Capital Partners  are among
    numerous private equity firms and investment banks named as
    defendants in a federal antitrust action filed in the
    U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts in
    December 2007. As amended, the complaint generally alleges
    that the defendants have colluded to limit competition in
    bidding for private
     equity-sponsored 
    acquisitions of public companies, thereby resulting in lower
    prevailing bids and, by extension, less consideration for
    shareholders of those companies in violation of Section 1
    of the U.S. Sherman Antitrust Act and common law.
    Defendants moved to dismiss on August 27, 2008. By an
    order dated November 19, 2008, the district court
    dismissed claims relating to certain transactions that were the
    subject of releases as part of the settlement of shareholder
    actions challenging such transactions, and by an order dated
    December 15, 2008 otherwise denied the motion to
    dismiss.

Washington Mutual
    Securities Litigation  

GS Co. is among numerous underwriters named as defendants
    in a putative securities class action amended complaint filed on
    August 5, 2008 in the U.S. District Court for the
    Western District of Washington. As to the underwriters,
    plaintiffs allege that the offering documents in connection with
    various securities offerings by Washington Mutual, Inc. failed
    to describe accurately the company s exposure to
     mortgage-related 
    activities in violation of the disclosure requirements of the
    federal securities laws. The defendants include past and present
    directors and officers of Washington Mutual, the company s
    former outside auditors, and numerous underwriters. The
    underwriter defendants moved to dismiss on
    December 8, 2008. GS Co. underwrote $788,500,000
    principal amount of securities in the offerings at issue.

On September 25, 2008, the FDIC took over the primary
    banking operations of Washington Mutual, Inc. and then sold
    them. On September 27, 2008, Washington Mutual, Inc.
    filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in the U.S. bankruptcy
    court in Delaware.

Britannia Bulk
    Securities Litigation  

GS Co. is among the underwriters named as defendants in
    numerous putative securities class actions filed beginning on
    November 6, 2008 in the U.S. District Court for
    the Southern District of New York arising from the
    June 17, 2008 $125 million initial public
    offering of common stock of Britannia Bulk Holdings, Inc. The
    complaints name as defendants the company, certain of its
    directors and officers, and the underwriters for the offering.
    Plaintiffs allege that the offering materials violated the
    disclosure requirements of the federal securities laws and seek
    compensatory damages. Defendants have yet to respond.

GS Co. underwrote 3.75 million shares of common stock
    for a total offering price of $56.25 million. The principal
    operating subsidiary of Britannia Bulk Holdings, Inc. is subject
    to an insolvency proceeding in the U.K. courts.

Item 4.    

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders
    during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year ended
    November 28, 2008.

50

Table of Contents   

EXECUTIVE
    OFFICERS OF THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

Set forth below are the name, age, present title, principal
    occupation and certain biographical information as of
    January 26, 2009 for our executive officers. All of
    our executive officers have been appointed by and serve at the
    pleasure of our board of directors.

Lloyd C.
    Blankfein, 54  

Mr. Blankfein has been our Chairman and Chief Executive
    Officer since June 2006, and a director since
    April 2003. Previously, he had been our President and Chief
    Operating Officer since January 2004. Prior to that, from
    April 2002 until January 2004, he was a Vice Chairman
    of Goldman Sachs, with management responsibility for Goldman
    Sachs  Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Division
    (FICC) and Equities Division (Equities). Prior to becoming a
    Vice Chairman, he had served as co-head of FICC since its
    formation in 1997. From 1994 to 1997, he headed or co-headed the
    Currency and Commodities Division. Mr. Blankfein is not on
    the board of any public company other than Goldman Sachs. He is
    affiliated with certain
     non-profit 
    organizations, including as a member of the Harvard University
    Committee on University Resources, the Advisory Board of the
    Tsinghua University School of Economics and Management and the
    Governing Board of the Indian School of Business, an overseer of
    the Weill Medical College of Cornell University, and a director
    of the Partnership for New York City and Catalyst.

Alan M. Cohen,
    58  

Mr. Cohen has been an Executive Vice President of Goldman
    Sachs and our Global Head of Compliance since
    February 2004. From 1991 until January 2004, he was a
    partner in the law firm of O Melveny   Myers LLP.
    He is affiliated with certain
     non-profit 
    organizations, including as a board member of the New York Stem
    Cell Foundation.

Gary D. Cohn,
    48  

Mr. Cohn has been our President and Co-Chief Operating
    Officer and a director since June 2006. Previously, he had
    been the co-head of Goldman Sachs  global securities
    businesses since January 2004. He also had been the co-head
    of Equities since 2003 and the co-head of FICC since
    September 2002. From March 2002 to
    September 2002, he served as co-chief operating officer of
    FICC. Prior to that, beginning in 1999, Mr. Cohn managed
    the FICC macro businesses. From 1996 to 1999, he was the global
    head of Goldman Sachs  commodities business. Mr. Cohn
    is not on the board of any public company other than Goldman
    Sachs. He is affiliated with certain
     non-profit 
    organizations, including as a trustee of the Gilmour Academy,
    the NYU Child Study Center, the NYU Hospital, the NYU Medical
    School, the Harlem Children s Zone and American University.

J. Michael Evans,
    51  

Mr. Evans has been a Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs since
    February 2008 and chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia since
    2004. Prior to becoming a Vice Chairman, he had served as global
    co-head of Goldman Sachs  securities business since 2003.
    Previously, he had been co-head of the Equities Division since
    2001. Mr. Evans is a board member of CASPER (Center for
    Advancement of Standards-based Physical Education Reform). He
    also serves as a trustee of the Bendheim Center for Finance at
    Princeton University.

Gregory K. Palm,
    60  

Mr. Palm has been an Executive Vice President of Goldman
    Sachs since May 1999, and our General Counsel and head or
    co-head of the Legal Department since May 1992.

51

Table of Contents   

Michael S.
    Sherwood, 43  

Mr. Sherwood has been a Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs
    since February 2008 and co-chief executive officer of
    Goldman Sachs International since 2005. Prior to becoming a Vice
    Chairman, he had served as global co-head of Goldman Sachs 
    securities business since 2003. Prior to that, he had been head
    of the Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Division in Europe
    since 2001.

Esta E. Stecher,
    51  

Ms. Stecher has been an Executive Vice President of Goldman
    Sachs and our General Counsel and co-head of the Legal
    Department since December 2000. From 1994 to 2000, she was
    head of the firm s Tax Department, over which she continues
    to have senior oversight responsibility. She is also a trustee
    of Columbia University.

David A. Viniar,
    53  

Mr. Viniar has been an Executive Vice President of Goldman
    Sachs and our Chief Financial Officer since May 1999. He
    has been the head of Operations, Technology, Finance and
    Services Division since December 2002. He was head of the
    Finance Division and co-head of Credit Risk Management and
    Advisory and Firmwide Risk from December 2001 to
    December 2002. Mr. Viniar was co-head of Operations,
    Finance and Resources from March 1999 to
    December 2001. He was Chief Financial Officer of The
    Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. from March 1999 to May 1999.
    From July 1998 until March 1999, he was Deputy Chief
    Financial Officer and from 1994 until July 1998, he was
    head of Finance, with responsibility for Controllers and
    Treasury. From 1992 to 1994, he was head of Treasury and prior
    to that was in the Structured Finance Department of Investment
    Banking. He also serves on the Board of Trustees of Union
    College.

John S. Weinberg,
    51  

Mr. Weinberg has been a Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs
    since June 2006. He has been co-head of Goldman Sachs 
    Investment Banking Division since December 2002. From
    January 2002 to December 2002, he was co-head of the
    Investment Banking Division in the Americas. Prior to that, he
    served as co-head of the Investment Banking Services Department
    since 1997. He is affiliated with certain
     non-profit 
    organizations, including as a board member at
    NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, The Steppingstone Foundation, the
    Greenwich Country Day School and Community Anti-Drug Coalitions
    of America. Mr. Weinberg also serves on the Visiting
    Committee for Harvard Business School.

Jon Winkelried,
    49  

Mr. Winkelried has been our President and Co-Chief
    Operating Officer and a director since June 2006.
    Previously, he had been the co-head of Goldman Sachs 
    Investment Banking Division since January 2005. From 2000
    to 2005, he was co-head of FICC. From 1999 to 2000, he was head
    of FICC in Europe. From 1995 to 1999, he was responsible for
    Goldman Sachs  leveraged finance business.
    Mr. Winkelried is not on the board of any public company
    other than Goldman Sachs. He is also a trustee of the University
    of Chicago.

52

Table of Contents   

PART II  

Item 5.    

Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

The principal market on which our common stock is traded is the
    NYSE. Information relating to the high and low sales prices per
    share of our common stock, as reported by the Consolidated Tape
    Association, for each full quarterly period during fiscal 2007
    and 2008 is set forth under the heading  Supplemental
    Financial Information   Common Stock Price Range 
    in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    As of January 16, 2009, there were 9,909 holders of
    record of our common stock.

During fiscal 2008 and 2007, dividends of $0.35 per share of
    common stock were declared on December 11, 2007,
    March 12, 2008, June 13, 2007,
    September 19, 2007, December 17, 2007,
    March 17, 2008, June 16, 2008 and
    September 15, 2008. The holders of our common stock
    share proportionately on a per share basis in all dividends and
    other distributions on common stock declared by our board of
    directors.

The declaration of dividends by Goldman Sachs is subject to the
    discretion of our board of directors. Our board of directors
    will take into account such matters as general business
    conditions, our financial results, capital requirements,
    contractual, legal and regulatory restrictions on the payment of
    dividends by us to our shareholders or by our subsidiaries to
    us, the effect on our debt ratings and such other factors as our
    board of directors may deem relevant. See
     Business   Regulation  in Part I,
    Item 1 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for a discussion of potential regulatory limitations on our
    receipt of funds from our regulated subsidiaries and our payment
    of dividends to shareholders of Group Inc.

Prior to October 28, 2011, unless we have redeemed all
    the preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury on
    October 28, 2008 or unless the U.S. Treasury has
    transferred all the preferred stock to a third party, the
    consent of the U.S. Treasury will be required for us to
    declare or pay any dividend or make any distribution on common
    stock other than (i) regular quarterly cash dividends of
    not more than $0.35 per share, as adjusted for any stock split,
    stock dividend, reverse stock split, reclassification or similar
    transaction, (ii) dividends payable solely in shares of
    common stock and (iii) dividends or distributions of rights
    or junior stock in connection with a stockholders  rights
    plan.

53

Table of Contents   

The table below sets forth the information with respect to
    purchases made by or on behalf of Group Inc. or any
     affiliated purchaser  (as defined in
     Rule 10b-18(a)(3) 
    under the Exchange Act), of our common stock during the fourth
    quarter of our fiscal year ended November 28, 2008.

(1)   

Goldman Sachs generally does not
    repurchase shares of its common stock as part of the repurchase
    program during self-imposed  black-out  periods, which
    run from the last two weeks of a fiscal quarter through and
    including the date of the earnings release for such quarter.

(2)   

On March 21, 2000, we
    announced that our board of directors had approved a repurchase
    program, pursuant to which up to 15 million shares of our
    common stock may be repurchased. This repurchase program was
    increased by an aggregate of 280 million shares by
    resolutions of our board of directors adopted on
    June 18, 2001, March 18, 2002,
    November 20, 2002, January 30, 2004,
    January 25, 2005, September 16, 2005,
    September 11, 2006 and December 17, 2007. We
    use our share repurchase program to help maintain the
    appropriate level of common equity and to substantially offset
    increases in share count over time resulting from employee
     share-based 
    compensation. Prior to October 28, 2011, unless we
    have redeemed all the preferred stock issued to the
    U.S. Treasury on October 28, 2008 or unless the
    U.S. Treasury has transferred all the preferred stock to a
    third party, the consent of the U.S. Treasury will be
    required for us to repurchase our common stock in an aggregate
    amount greater than the increase in the number of diluted shares
    outstanding (as reported in our Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the three months ended
    August 29, 2008) resulting from the grant,
    vesting or exercise of
     equity-based 
    compensation to employees and equitably adjusted for any stock
    split, stock dividend, reverse stock split, reclassification or
    similar transaction.

The repurchase program is effected
    primarily through regular
     open-market 
    purchases, the amounts and timing of which are determined
    primarily by our current and projected capital positions
    (i.e., comparisons of our desired level of capital to our
    actual level of capital) but which may also be influenced by
    general market conditions and the prevailing price and trading
    volumes of our common stock, in each case subject to the limit
    imposed under the U.S. Treasury s TARP Capital
    Purchase Program. The total remaining authorization under the
    repurchase program was 60,852,478 shares as of
    January 16, 2009; the repurchase program has no set
    expiration or termination date.

Information relating to compensation plans under which our
    equity securities are authorized for issuance is set forth in
    Part III, Item 12 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Item 6.    

Selected
    Financial Data  

The Selected Financial Data table is set forth under
    Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

54

Item 7.    

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations  

INDEX  

55

Table of Contents   

Introduction  

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (Group Inc.) is a bank holding
    company and a leading global investment banking, securities and
    investment management firm that provides a wide range of
    services worldwide to a substantial and diversified client base
    that includes corporations, financial institutions, governments
    and
     high-net-worth 
    individuals.

Our activities are divided into three segments:

Investment Banking.   We provide a broad range
    of investment banking services to a diverse group of
    corporations, financial institutions, investment funds,
    governments and individuals.

Trading and Principal Investments.   We
    facilitate client transactions with a diverse group of
    corporations, financial institutions, investment funds,
    governments and individuals and take proprietary positions
    through market making in, trading of and investing in fixed
    income and equity products, currencies, commodities and
    derivatives on these products. In addition, we engage in
    market-making and specialist activities on equities and options
    exchanges, and we clear client transactions on major stock,
    options and futures exchanges worldwide. In connection with our
    merchant banking and other investing activities, we make
    principal investments directly and through funds that we raise
    and manage.

Asset Management and Securities Services.   We
    provide investment advisory and financial planning services and
    offer investment products (primarily through separately managed
    accounts and commingled vehicles, such as mutual funds and
    private investment funds) across all major asset classes to a
    diverse group of institutions and individuals worldwide and
    provide prime brokerage services, financing services and
    securities lending services to institutional clients, including
    hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds and foundations, and to
     high-net-worth 
    individuals worldwide.

Unless specifically stated otherwise, all references to 2008,
    2007 and 2006 refer to our fiscal years ended, or the dates, as
    the context requires, November 28, 2008,
    November 30, 2007 and November 24, 2006,
    respectively, and any reference to a future year refers to a
    fiscal year ending on the last Friday in November of that year.

On December 15, 2008, the Board of Directors of Group
    Inc. (Board) approved a change in our fiscal year-end from the
    last Friday of November to the last Friday of December. The
    change is effective for our 2009 fiscal year. The firm s
    2009 fiscal year began December 27, 2008 and will end
    December 25, 2009, resulting in a
     one-month 
    transition period that began November 29, 2008 and
    ended December 26, 2008.

When we use the terms  Goldman Sachs,   the
    firm,   we,   us  and  our, 
    we mean Group Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated
    subsidiaries. References herein to our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    are to our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 28, 2008.

In this discussion, we have included statements that may
    constitute  forward-looking statements  within the
    meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking
    statements are not historical facts but instead represent only
    our beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their
    nature, are inherently uncertain and outside our control. These
    statements include statements other than historical information
    or statements of current condition and may relate to our future
    plans and objectives and results, among other things, and may
    also include statements about the objectives and effectiveness
    of our risk management and liquidity policies, statements about
    trends in or growth opportunities for our businesses, statements
    about our future status, activities or reporting under
    U.S. banking regulation, and statements about our
    investment banking transaction backlog. By identifying these
    statements for you in this manner, we are alerting you to the
    possibility that our actual results and financial condition may
    differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results and
    financial condition indicated in these forward-looking
    statements. Important factors that could cause our actual
    results and financial condition to differ from those indicated
    in these forward-looking statements include, among others, those
    discussed below under
        Certain 
    Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses  as well as
     Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of our
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    and  Cautionary Statement Pursuant to the U.S. Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995  in Part I,
    Item 1 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

56

Table of Contents   

Executive
    Overview  

Our diluted earnings per common share were $4.47 for 2008,
    compared with $24.73 for 2007. Return on average tangible common
    shareholders  equity
     (1)  was

    5.5% and return on average common shareholders  equity was
    4.9% for 2008. As of November 2008, book value per common
    share was $98.68, an increase of 9.1% compared with the end of
    2007, and our Tier 1 Ratio
     (2)  was

    15.6%. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we raised
    $20.75 billion in equity, comprised of a $5.75 billion
    public common stock sale, a $5 billion preferred stock and
    warrant issuance to Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and certain
    affiliates and a $10 billion preferred stock and warrant
    issuance under the U.S. Department of the Treasury s
    (U.S. Treasury) TARP Capital Purchase Program. Total assets
    were $885 billion at the end of the year, a decrease of 21%
    compared with the end of 2007. During the fourth quarter of
    2008, the firm became a bank holding company regulated by the
    Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal
    Reserve Board).

Our results for 2008 reflected a particularly difficult
    operating environment, including significant asset price
    declines, high levels of volatility and reduced levels of
    liquidity, particularly in the fourth quarter. In addition,
    credit markets experienced significant dislocation between
    prices for cash instruments and the related derivative contracts
    and between credit indices and underlying single names. Net
    revenues in Trading and Principal Investments were significantly
    lower compared with 2007, reflecting significant declines in
    Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities (FICC), Principal
    Investments and Equities. The decrease in FICC primarily
    reflected losses in credit products, which included a loss of
    approximately $3.1 billion (net of hedges) related to
     non-investment-grade 
    credit origination activities and losses from investments,
    including corporate debt and private and public equities.
    Results in mortgages included net losses of approximately
    $1.7 billion on residential mortgage loans and securities
    and approximately $1.4 billion on commercial mortgage loans
    and securities. Interest rate products, currencies and
    commodities each produced particularly strong results and net
    revenues were higher compared with 2007. During 2008, although
    client-driven activity was generally solid, FICC operated in a
    challenging environment characterized by
     broad-based 
    declines in asset values, wider mortgage and corporate credit
    spreads, reduced levels of liquidity and
     broad-based 
    investor deleveraging, particularly in the second half of the
    year. The decline in Principal Investments primarily reflected
    net losses of $2.53 billion from corporate principal
    investments and $949 million from real estate principal
    investments, as well as a $446 million loss from our
    investment in the ordinary shares of Industrial and Commercial
    Bank of China Limited (ICBC). In Equities, the decrease compared
    with particularly strong net revenues in 2007 reflected losses
    in principal strategies, partially offset by higher net revenues
    in our client franchise businesses. Commissions were
    particularly strong and were higher than 2007. During 2008,
    Equities operated in an environment characterized by a
    significant decline in global equity prices,
     broad-based 
    investor deleveraging and very high levels of volatility,
    particularly in the second half of the year.

(1)     

Return on average tangible common
    shareholders  equity (ROTE) is computed by dividing net
    earnings applicable to common shareholders by average monthly
    tangible common shareholders  equity. See
        Results 
    of Operations   Financial Overview  below for
    further information regarding our calculation of ROTE.

(2)     

Before we became a bank holding
    company, we were subject to capital guidelines as a Consolidated
    Supervised Entity (CSE) that were generally consistent with
    those set out in the Revised Framework for the International
    Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards issued
    by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel II). We
    currently compute and report our consolidated capital ratios in
    accordance with the Basel II requirements, as applicable to us
    when we were regulated as a CSE, for the purpose of assessing
    the adequacy of our capital. Under the Basel II framework as it
    applied to us when we were regulated as a CSE, our Tier 1
    Ratio equals Tier 1 Capital divided by Total
     Risk-Weighted 
    Assets (RWAs). We are currently working with the Federal Reserve
    Board to put in place the appropriate reporting and compliance
    mechanisms and methodologies to allow reporting of the
    Basel I capital ratios as of the end of March 2009. See
        Equity 
    Capital  below for a further discussion of our Tier 1
    Ratio.

57

Table of Contents   

Net revenues in Investment Banking also declined significantly
    compared with 2007, reflecting significantly lower net revenues
    in both Financial Advisory and Underwriting. In Financial
    Advisory, the decrease compared with particularly strong net
    revenues in 2007 reflected a decline in
     industry-wide 
    completed mergers and acquisitions. The decrease in Underwriting
    primarily reflected significantly lower net revenues in debt
    underwriting, primarily due to a decline in leveraged finance
    and
     mortgage-related 
    activity, reflecting difficult market conditions. Net revenues
    in equity underwriting were slightly lower compared with 2007,
    reflecting a decrease in
     industry-wide 
    equity and
     equity-related 
    offerings. Our investment banking transaction backlog at the end
    of 2008 was significantly lower than it was at the end of 2007.
     (3) 

Net revenues in Asset Management and Securities Services
    increased compared with 2007. Securities Services net revenues
    were higher, reflecting the impact of changes in the composition
    of securities lending customer balances, as well as higher total
    average customer balances. Asset Management net revenues
    increased slightly compared with 2007. During the year, assets
    under management decreased $89 billion to
    $779 billion, due to $123 billion of market
    depreciation, primarily in equity assets, partially offset by
    $34 billion of net inflows.

Given the difficult market conditions, and in particular, the
    challenging liquidity and funding environment during 2008, we
    focused on reducing concentrated risk positions, including our
    exposure to leveraged loans and real estate-related loans. We
    believe that the strength of our capital position will enable us
    to take advantage of market opportunities as they arise in 2009.

Our business, by its nature, does not produce predictable
    earnings. Our results in any given period can be materially
    affected by conditions in global financial markets and economic
    conditions generally. For a further discussion of the factors
    that may affect our future operating results, see
        Certain 
    Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses  below as well
    as  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of our
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

(3)  Our

    investment banking transaction backlog represents an estimate of
    our future net revenues from investment banking transactions
    where we believe that future revenue realization is more likely
    than not.

58

Table of Contents   

Business
    Environment  

Our financial performance is highly dependent on the environment
    in which our businesses operate. During the first half of 2008,
    global economic growth slowed as the U.S. entered a
    recession. Despite the weakness in the U.S. and other major
    economies, growth in most emerging markets remained solid, which
    contributed to a dramatic increase in commodity prices as well
    as increased inflation. However, during the second half of 2008,
    the downturn in global economic growth became
     broad-based, 
    which coincided with significant weakness and sharply reduced
    liquidity across global financial markets. For a further
    discussion of how market conditions affect our businesses, see
        Certain 
    Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses  below as well
    as  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of our
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    A further discussion of the business environment in 2008 is set
    forth below.

Global.   Growth in the global economy weakened
    substantially over the course of 2008, particularly in the major
    economies. Economic growth in emerging markets also generally
    declined in 2008, but remained high relative to the major
    economies. Fixed income and equity markets experienced high
    levels of volatility,
     broad-based 
    declines in asset prices and reduced levels of liquidity,
    particularly during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. In
    addition, mortgage and corporate credit spreads widened and
    credit markets experienced significant dislocation between
    prices for cash instruments and the related derivative contracts
    and between credit indices and underlying single names. The
    U.S. Federal Reserve lowered its federal funds target rate
    over the course of our fiscal year, while central banks in the
    Eurozone, United Kingdom, Japan and China also lowered interest
    rates towards the end of the year. Oil prices exhibited
    significant volatility during our fiscal year, rising to over
    $140 per barrel in July before declining to under $60 per barrel
    by the end of our fiscal year. In currency markets, the
    U.S. dollar initially weakened against most major
    currencies, particularly against the Euro, but subsequently
    recovered as the pace of decline in global economic growth began
    to accelerate in the second half of the year. Investment banking
    activity was generally subdued during our fiscal year,
    reflecting a significant decline in
     industry-wide 
    announced and completed mergers and acquisitions and equity and
     equity-related 
    offerings compared with 2007.

United States.   Real gross domestic product
    growth in the U.S. economy slowed to an estimated 1.2% in
    calendar year 2008, down from 2.0% in 2007. The economy entered
    a recession near the beginning of our fiscal year, with the
    downturn intensifying in our fourth quarter. Much of the
    slowdown was attributable to weakness in credit markets brought
    on by the contraction in the housing market and the associated
    increase in mortgage delinquencies and defaults. Growth in
    industrial production slowed from 2007 levels, reflecting
    reduced growth in domestic demand and exports. Both business and
    consumer confidence declined over the course of the year. Growth
    in consumer expenditure was supported in the first half of the
    year by the federal government s stimulus package but
    declined thereafter, as the housing market continued to weaken
    and the rate of unemployment rose significantly. The rate of
    inflation increased during the first half of our fiscal year, as
    energy and food prices increased significantly, but declined
    sharply towards the end of the year. Measures of core inflation,
    which remained elevated in the first half of the year, also
    declined towards the end of the year as the labor market
    continued to weaken and capacity utilization decreased. The
    U.S. Federal Reserve reduced its federal funds target rate
    by a total of 350 basis points to 1.00% during our fiscal year,
    its lowest level since 2003. U.S. regulatory agencies have
    also taken additional measures to address reduced levels of
    liquidity in credit markets and the U.S. Treasury took
    measures to strengthen the capital adequacy of financial
    institutions. The yield on the
     10-year 
    U.S. Treasury note declined by 104 basis points to 2.93%
    during our fiscal year. The Dow Jones Industrial Average, the
    S P 500 Index and the NASDAQ Composite Index ended our
    fiscal year lower by 34%, 39% and 42%, respectively.

Europe.   Real gross domestic product growth in
    the Eurozone economies slowed to an estimated 0.8% in calendar
    year 2008, down from 2.6% in 2007. Growth in industrial
    production, fixed investment and consumer expenditure weakened
    throughout the year. In addition, surveys of business and
    consumer confidence declined. Although the labor market remained
    solid in the first half of the

59

Table of Contents   

year, the unemployment rate began to increase in the second half
    of the year. The rate of inflation increased during the first
    three quarters of the year. In response to inflationary
    pressures, the European Central Bank (ECB) raised interest rates
    in July, increasing its main refinancing operations rate by 25
    basis points to 4.25%. However, during the fourth quarter of our
    fiscal year, the ECB lowered its main refinancing operations
    rate by a total of 100 basis points to 3.25%, as financial
    markets and the outlook for growth weakened considerably and
    inflationary pressures appeared to decline. In the United
    Kingdom, real gross domestic product growth fell to an estimated
    0.9% for calendar year 2008, down from 3.0% in 2007. The decline
    in growth accelerated in the second half of the year as credit
    market conditions deteriorated and the slowdown in the U.K.
    housing market intensified. The rate of inflation increased
    during the year, although inflationary pressures appeared to
    moderate in our fourth quarter. The Bank of England lowered its
    official bank rate over the course of our fiscal year by a total
    of 275 basis points to 3.00%.
     Long-term 
    government bond yields in both the Eurozone and the U.K. ended
    our fiscal year lower. The Euro and British pound depreciated by
    13% and 25%, respectively, against the U.S. dollar during
    our fiscal year. Major European equity markets ended our fiscal
    year significantly lower.

Asia.   In Japan, real gross domestic product
    decreased by an estimated 0.2% in calendar year 2008 compared
    with an increase of 2.4% in 2007. Measures of investment
    activity in the housing sector and growth in consumption
    declined during the year. Export growth remained solid in the
    first half of the year but deteriorated notably towards year-end
    as the environment outside of Japan worsened. The rate of
    inflation increased from the near-zero levels seen in recent
    years, but remained moderate. The Bank of Japan lowered its
    target overnight call rate by 20 basis points in October,
    bringing it to 0.30%, while the yield on
     10-year 
    Japanese government bonds declined by 23 basis points during our
    fiscal year. The yen appreciated by 14% against the
    U.S. dollar. The Nikkei 225 ended our fiscal year down 46%.

In China, real gross domestic product growth declined to an
    estimated 9.0% in calendar year 2008 from 13.0% in 2007. Export
    growth and industrial production decelerated rapidly toward the
    end of the year, while consumer spending softened but remained
    solid. Rising food prices contributed to a higher rate of
    inflation in the first half of the year but inflation fell
    sharply in the second half of the year. The People s Bank
    of China raised its
     one-year 
    benchmark lending rate by 18 basis points to 7.47% at the
    beginning of our fiscal year, but reduced the lending rate by
    189 basis points during our fourth quarter and took additional
    measures to increase liquidity in the financial system. The
    Chinese government continued to allow the steady appreciation of
    its currency against the U.S. dollar in the first half of
    the year, after which the exchange rate remained broadly
    unchanged. Real gross domestic product growth in India slowed to
    an estimated 6.7% in calendar year 2008 from 9.0% in 2007. While
    export growth remained solid for most of the year, growth in
    consumer expenditure and fixed investment declined. The rate of
    wholesale inflation increased sharply in the first half of the
    year and then subsequently declined. The Indian rupee, along
    with other currencies in the region, generally depreciated
    against the U.S. dollar. Equity markets experienced
    substantial declines across the region, with the Shanghai
    Composite Index down 62%, and markets in Hong Kong, India and
    South Korea also ending the year significantly lower.

Other Markets.   Real gross domestic product
    growth in Brazil declined to an estimated 5.4% in calendar year
    2008 from 5.7% in 2007. For most of the year, growth was
    supported by strong capital inflows, high demand for commodity
    exports, and strong domestic demand. Towards the end of the
    year, however, the economic outlook deteriorated, as the
    Brazilian currency depreciated against the U.S. dollar and
    commodity prices fell. In Russia, real gross domestic product
    growth declined to an estimated 6.2% in calendar year 2008 from
    8.1% in 2007. Growth was supported by strong household
    consumption and increased capital investment, particularly in
    the first half of the year. However, in the fourth quarter, the
    pace of growth declined sharply, as capital outflows intensified
    and the Russian currency depreciated against the
    U.S. dollar. Brazilian and Russian equity prices ended our
    fiscal year significantly lower.

60

Table of Contents   

Certain Risk
    Factors That May Affect Our Businesses  

We face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in
    our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit,
    operational, legal and regulatory risks. For a discussion of how
    management seeks to manage some of these risks, see
        Risk 
    Management  below. A summary of the more important factors
    that could affect our businesses follows below. For a further
    discussion of these and other important factors that could
    affect our businesses, see  Risk Factors  in
    Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Market Conditions and Market Risk.     Our
    financial performance is highly dependent on the environment in
    which our businesses operate. Overall, during fiscal 2008, the
    business environment has been extremely adverse for many of our
    businesses and there can be no assurance that these conditions
    will improve in the near term.

A favorable business environment is generally characterized by,
    among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth,
    transparent, liquid and efficient capital markets, low
    inflation, high business and investor confidence, stable
    geopolitical conditions and strong business earnings.
    Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be
    caused by: declines in economic growth, business activity or
    investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability
    or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in
    inflation, interest rates, exchange rate volatility, default
    rates or the price of basic commodities; outbreaks of
    hostilities or other geopolitical instability; corporate,
    political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in
    capital markets; natural disasters or pandemics; or a
    combination of these or other factors. Our businesses and
    profitability have been and may continue to become adversely
    affected by market conditions in many ways, including the
    following:

Many of our businesses, such as our merchant banking businesses,
    our mortgages, leveraged loan and credit products businesses in
    our FICC segment, and our equity principal strategies business,
    have net  long  positions in debt securities, loans,
    derivatives, mortgages, equities (including private equity) and
    most other asset classes. In addition, many of our
     market-making 
    and other businesses in which we act as a principal to
    facilitate our clients  activities, including our
    specialist businesses, commit large amounts of capital to
    maintain trading positions in interest rate and credit products,
    as well as currencies, commodities and equities. Because nearly
    all of these investing and trading positions are
     marked-to-market 
    on a daily basis, declines in asset values directly and
    immediately impact our earnings, unless we have effectively
     hedged  our exposures to such declines. In certain
    circumstances (particularly in the case of leveraged loans and
    private equities or other securities that are not freely
    tradable or lack established and liquid trading markets), it may
    not be possible or economic to hedge such exposures and to the
    extent that we do so the hedge may be ineffective or may greatly
    reduce our ability to profit from increases in the values of the
    assets. Sudden declines and significant volatility in the prices
    of assets may substantially curtail or eliminate the trading
    markets for certain assets, which may make it very difficult to
    sell, hedge or value such assets. The inability to sell or
    effectively hedge assets reduces our ability to limit losses in
    such positions and the difficulty in valuing assets may increase
    our
     risk-weighted 
    assets which requires us to maintain additional capital and
    increases our funding costs.

Our cost of obtaining
     long-term 
    unsecured funding is directly related to our credit spreads.
    Credit spreads are influenced by market perceptions of our
    creditworthiness. Widening credit spreads, as well as
    significant declines in the availability of credit, have
    adversely affected our ability to borrow on a secured and
    unsecured basis and may continue to do so. We fund ourselves on
    an unsecured basis by issuing commercial paper, promissory notes
    and
     long-term 
    debt, or by obtaining bank loans or lines of credit. We seek to
    finance many of our assets, including our less liquid assets, on
    a secured basis, including by entering into repurchase
    agreements. Disruptions in the credit markets make it harder and
    more expensive to obtain funding for our businesses. If our
    available funding is limited or we are forced to fund

61

Table of Contents   

our operations at a higher cost, these conditions may require us
    to curtail our business activities and increase our cost of
    funding, both of which could reduce our profitability,
    particularly in our businesses that involve investing, lending
    and taking principal positions, including market making.

Our investment banking business has been and may continue to be
    adversely affected by market conditions. Poor economic
    conditions and other adverse geopolitical conditions can
    adversely affect and have adversely affected investor and CEO
    confidence, resulting in significant
     industry-wide 
    declines in the size and number of underwritings and of
    financial advisory transactions, which could continue to have an
    adverse effect on our revenues and our profit margins. In
    addition, our clients engaging in mergers and acquisitions often
    rely on access to the secured and unsecured credit markets to
    finance their transactions. The lack of available credit and the
    increased cost of credit can adversely affect the size, volume
    and timing of our clients  merger and acquisition
    transactions   particularly large transactions.
    Because a significant portion of our investment banking revenues
    are derived from our participation in large transactions, a
    decline in the number of large transactions would adversely
    affect our investment banking business.

Certain of our trading businesses depend on market volatility to
    provide trading and arbitrage opportunities, and decreases in
    volatility may reduce these opportunities and adversely affect
    the results of these businesses. On the other hand, increased
    volatility, while it can increase trading volumes and spreads,
    also increases risk as measured by VaR and may expose us to
    increased risks in connection with our
     market-making 
    and proprietary businesses or cause us to reduce the size of
    these businesses in order to avoid increasing our VaR. Limiting
    the size of our
     market-making 
    positions and investing businesses can adversely affect our
    profitability.

We receive
     asset-based 
    management fees based on the value of our clients 
    portfolios or investment in funds managed by us and, in some
    cases, we also receive incentive fees based on increases in the
    value of such investments. Declines in asset values reduce the
    value of our clients  portfolios or fund assets, which in
    turn reduce the fees we earn for managing such assets. Market
    uncertainty, volatility and adverse economic conditions, as well
    as declines in asset values, may cause our clients to transfer
    their assets out of our funds or other products or their
    brokerage accounts or affect our ability to attract new clients
    or additional assets from existing clients and result in reduced
    net revenues, principally in our asset management business. To
    the extent that clients do not withdraw their funds, they may
    invest them in products that generate less fee income.

Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant
    losses in our
     market-making, 
    proprietary trading, investing, block trading, merchant banking,
    underwriting and lending businesses. This risk may increase to
    the extent we expand our proprietary trading and investing
    businesses or commit capital to facilitate customer-driven
    business.

Concerns about financial institution profitability and solvency
    as a result of general market conditions, particularly in the
    credit markets, together with the forced merger or failure of a
    number of major commercial and investment banks have at times
    caused a number of our clients to reduce the level of business
    that they do with us, either because of concerns about the
    safety of their assets held by us or simply arising from a
    desire to diversify their risk or for other reasons. Some
    clients have withdrawn some of the funds held at our firm or
    transferred them from deposits with GS Bank USA to other types
    of assets (in many cases leaving those assets in their brokerage
    accounts held with us). Some counterparties have at times
    refused to enter into certain derivatives and other
     long-term 
    transactions with us or have requested additional collateral.
    These instances were more prevalent during periods when the lack
    of confidence in financial institutions was most widespread and
    have become significantly less frequent in recent months.

62

Table of Contents   

Liquidity Risk.   Liquidity is essential to our
    businesses. Our liquidity may be impaired by an inability to
    access secured
     and/or 
    unsecured debt markets, an inability to access funds from our
    subsidiaries, an inability to sell assets or redeem our
    investments, or unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. This
    situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable
    to control, such as a general market disruption or an
    operational problem that affects third parties or us, or even by
    the perception among market participants that we, or other
    market participants, are experiencing greater liquidity risk.
    The ongoing liquidity crisis and the loss of confidence in
    financial institutions has increased our cost of funding and
    limited our access to some of our traditional sources of
    liquidity, including both secured and unsecured borrowings. In
    particular, in the latter half of 2008, we were unable to raise
    significant amounts of
     long-term 
    unsecured debt in the public markets, other than as a result of
    the issuance of securities guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
    Insurance Corporation (FDIC) under the FDIC s Temporary
    Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP). It is unclear when we will
    regain access to the public long-term unsecured debt markets on
    customary terms or whether any similar program will be available
    after the TLGP s scheduled June 2009 expiration.

The financial instruments that we hold and the contracts to
    which we are a party are increasingly complex, as we employ
    structured products to benefit our clients and ourselves, and
    these complex structured products often do not have readily
    available markets to access in times of liquidity stress. Our
    investing activities may lead to situations where the holdings
    from these activities represent a significant portion of
    specific markets, which could restrict liquidity for our
    positions. Further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired
    if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets
    at the same time, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other
    market crisis. In addition, financial institutions with which we
    interact may exercise set-off rights or the right to require
    additional collateral, including in difficult market conditions,
    which could further impair our access to liquidity.

Our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. A reduction
    in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and
    competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our
    access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under
    certain bilateral provisions in some of our trading and
    collateralized financing contracts. Under these provisions,
    counterparties could be permitted to terminate contracts with
    Goldman Sachs or require us to post additional collateral.
    Termination of our trading and collateralized financing
    contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our
    liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or
    to make significant cash payments or securities movements. For a
    discussion of downgrades to our ratings that occurred in
    December 2008 and of the potential impact on Goldman Sachs
    of a further reduction in our credit ratings, see
        Liquidity 
    and Funding Risk   Credit Ratings  below.

Group Inc. has guaranteed the payment obligations of Goldman,
    Sachs   Co. (GS Co.), Goldman Sachs Bank USA (GS
    Bank USA) and Goldman Sachs Bank (Europe) PLC (GS Bank Europe),
    subject to certain exceptions, and has pledged significant
    assets to GS Bank USA to support its obligations to GS Bank USA.
    These guarantees may require Group Inc. to provide substantial
    funds or assets to its subsidiaries or their creditors or
    counterparties at a time when Group Inc. is in need of liquidity
    to fund its own obligations.

63

Table of Contents   

Credit Risk.     The amount and duration of
    our credit exposures have been increasing over the past several
    years, as have the breadth and size of the entities to which we
    have credit exposures. We are exposed to the risk that third
    parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not
    perform their obligations. These parties may default on their
    obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity,
    operational failure or other reasons. A failure of a significant
    market participant, or even concerns about a default by such an
    institution, could lead to significant liquidity problems,
    losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could
    adversely affect us. We are also subject to the risk that our
    rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all
    circumstances. In addition, deterioration in the credit quality
    of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold could
    result in losses
     and/or 
    adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use
    those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. A
    significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our
    counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results.
    While in many cases we are permitted to require additional
    collateral for counterparties that experience financial
    difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we
    are entitled to receive and the value of pledged assets. Default
    rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the
    valuation of collateral increase significantly in times of
    market stress and illiquidity.

As part of our clearing business, we finance our client
    positions, and we could be held responsible for the defaults or
    misconduct of our clients. Although we regularly review credit
    exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific
    industries, countries and regions that we believe may present
    credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or
    circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee,
    particularly as new business initiatives lead us to transact
    with a broader array of clients and counterparties and expose us
    to new asset classes and new markets.

We have experienced, due to competitive factors, pressure to
    extend and price credit at levels that may not always fully
    compensate us for the risks we take. In particular, corporate
    clients sometimes seek to require credit commitments from us in
    connection with investment banking and other assignments.

Operational Risk.   Our businesses are highly
    dependent on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily
    basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are
    highly complex, across numerous and diverse markets in many
    currencies. These transactions, as well as the information
    technology services we provide to clients, often must adhere to
    client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory
    standards. Despite the resiliency plans and facilities we have
    in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely
    impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our
    businesses and the communities in which we are located. This may
    include a disruption involving electrical, communications,
    internet, transportation or other services used by us or third
    parties with which we conduct business.

Industry consolidation, whether among market participants or
    financial intermediaries, increases the risk of operational
    failure as disparate complex systems need to be integrated,
    often on an accelerated basis. Furthermore, the
    interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with
    central agents, exchanges and clearing houses increases the risk
    that an operational failure at one institution may cause an
     industry-wide 
    operational failure that could materially impact our ability to
    conduct business.

64

Table of Contents   

Legal and Regulatory Risk.   We are subject to
    extensive and evolving regulation in jurisdictions around the
    world. Several of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory
    capital requirements and, as a bank holding company, we are
    subject to minimum capital standards and a minimum Tier 1
    leverage ratio on a consolidated basis. Firms in the financial
    services industry have been operating in a difficult regulatory
    environment. Recent market disruptions have led to numerous
    proposals for significant additional regulation of the financial
    services industry. These regulations could limit our business
    activities, increase compliance costs and, to the extent the
    regulations strictly control the activities of financial
    services firms, make it more difficult for us to distinguish
    ourselves from competitors. Substantial legal liability or a
    significant regulatory action against us could have material
    adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm
    to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business
    prospects. As a bank holding company, we will be subject to
    capital requirements based on Basel I as opposed to the
    requirements based on Basel II that applied to us as a CSE.
    Complying with these requirements may require us to liquidate
    assets or raise capital in a manner that adversely increases our
    funding costs or otherwise adversely affects our shareholders
    and creditors. In addition, failure to meet minimum capital
    requirements can initiate certain mandatory and possibly
    additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if
    undertaken, could have a direct material adverse effect on our
    financial condition. Our status as a bank holding company and
    the operation of our lending and other businesses through GS
    Bank USA subject us to additional regulation and limitations on
    our activities, as described in  Regulation  
    Banking Regulation  in Part I, Item 1 of our
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    as well as some regulatory uncertainty as we apply banking
    regulations and practices to many of our businesses. The
    application of these regulations and practices may present us
    and our regulators with new or novel issues. We face significant
    legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and
    amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and
    regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain
    high. Our experience has been that legal claims by customers and
    clients increase in a market downturn. In addition,
    employment-related claims typically increase in periods when we
    have reduced the total number of employees. For a discussion of
    how we account for our legal and regulatory exposures, see
        Use 
    of Estimates  below.

65

Table of Contents   

Critical
    Accounting Policies  

Fair
    Value  

The use of fair value to measure financial instruments, with
    related unrealized gains or losses generally recognized in
     Trading and principal investments  in our
    consolidated statements of earnings, is fundamental to our
    financial statements and our risk management processes and is
    our most critical accounting policy. The fair value of a
    financial instrument is the amount that would be received to
    sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly
    transaction between market participants at the measurement date
    (the exit price). Financial assets are marked to bid prices and
    financial liabilities are marked to offer prices.

During the fourth quarter of 2008, both the Financial Accounting
    Standards Board (FASB) and the staff of the SEC re-emphasized
    the importance of sound fair value measurement in financial
    reporting. In October 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff
     Position No. FAS 157-3, 
     Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the
    Market for That Asset is Not Active.  This statement
    clarifies that determining fair value in an inactive or
    dislocated market depends on facts and circumstances and
    requires significant management judgment. This statement
    specifies that it is acceptable to use inputs based on
    management estimates or assumptions, or for management to make
    adjustments to observable inputs to determine fair value when
    markets are not active and relevant observable inputs are not
    available. Our fair value measurement policies are consistent
    with the guidance in
     FSP No. FAS 157-3. 

Substantially all trading assets and trading liabilities are
    reflected in our consolidated statements of financial condition
    at fair value, pursuant principally to:

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 115,
     Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity
    Securities; 

specialized industry accounting for
     broker-dealers 
    and investment companies;

SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative
    Instruments and Hedging Activities;  or

the fair value option under either SFAS No. 155,
     Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial
    Instruments   an amendment of FASB Statements
    No. 133 and 140,  or SFAS No. 159,  The
    Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities  (i.e., the fair value option).

Upon becoming a bank holding company in September 2008, we
    could no longer apply specialized
     broker-dealer 
    industry accounting to those subsidiaries not regulated as
     broker-dealers. 
    Therefore, within our
     non-broker-dealer 
    subsidiaries, we designated as held for trading those
    instruments within the scope of SFAS No. 115
    (i.e., debt securities and marketable equity securities),
    and elected the fair value option for other cash instruments
    (specifically loans, loan commitments and certain private equity
    and restricted public equity securities) which we historically
    had carried at fair value. These fair value elections were in
    addition to previous elections made for certain corporate loans,
    loan commitments and certificates of deposit issued by GS Bank
    USA. There was no impact on earnings from these initial
    elections because all of these instruments were already recorded
    at fair value in  Trading assets, at fair value  or
     Trading liabilities, at fair value  in the
    consolidated statements of financial condition prior to Group
    Inc. becoming a bank holding company.

66

Table of Contents   

In determining fair value, we separate our  Trading assets,
    at fair value  and  Trading liabilities, at fair
    value  into two categories: cash instruments and derivative
    contracts, as set forth in the following table:

Trading
    Instruments by Category 
       (in
    millions)

(1)   

Includes interests of
    $3.48 billion and $4.30 billion as of
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively, held by
    investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs. The fair value of our
    investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC, which trade on The
    Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, includes the effect of foreign
    exchange revaluation for which we maintain an economic currency
    hedge.

(2)   

The following table sets forth the
    principal investments (in addition to our investments in ICBC
    and Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. (SMFG)) included
    within the Principal Investments component of our Trading and
    Principal Investments segment:

67

Table of Contents   

Cash Instruments.   Cash instruments include
    cash trading instruments, public principal investments and
    private principal investments.

Cash Trading Instruments.   Our cash trading
    instruments are generally valued using quoted market prices,
    broker or dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with
    reasonable levels of price transparency. The types of
    instruments valued based on quoted market prices in active
    markets include most U.S. government and sovereign
    obligations, active listed equities and certain money market
    securities.

The types of instruments that trade in markets that are not
    considered to be active, but are valued based on quoted market
    prices, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative pricing
    sources with reasonable levels of price transparency include
    most government agency securities,
     investment-grade 
    corporate bonds, certain mortgage products, certain bank loans
    and bridge loans, less liquid listed equities, state, municipal
    and provincial obligations and certain money market securities
    and loan commitments.

Certain cash trading instruments trade infrequently and
    therefore have little or no price transparency. Such instruments
    include private equity and real estate fund investments, certain
    bank loans and bridge loans (including certain mezzanine
    financing, leveraged loans arising from capital market
    transactions and other corporate bank debt), less liquid
    corporate debt securities and other debt obligations (including
    less liquid
     high-yield 
    corporate bonds, distressed debt instruments and collateralized
    debt obligations (CDOs) backed by corporate obligations), less
    liquid mortgage whole loans and securities (backed by either
    commercial or residential real estate), and acquired portfolios
    of distressed loans. The transaction price is initially used as
    the best estimate of fair value. Accordingly, when a pricing
    model is used to value such an instrument, the model is adjusted
    so that the model value at inception equals the transaction
    price. This valuation is adjusted only when changes to inputs
    and assumptions are corroborated by evidence such as
    transactions in similar instruments, completed or pending
    third-party transactions in the underlying investment or
    comparable entities, subsequent rounds of financing,
    recapitalizations and other transactions across the capital
    structure, offerings in the equity or debt capital markets, and
    changes in financial ratios or cash flows.

For positions that are not traded in active markets or are
    subject to transfer restrictions, valuations are adjusted to
    reflect illiquidity
     and/or 
     non-transferability. 
    Such adjustments are generally based on available market
    evidence. In the absence of such evidence, management s
    best estimate is used.

Public Principal Investments.   Our public
    principal investments held within the Principal Investments
    component of our Trading and Principal Investments segment tend
    to be large, concentrated holdings resulting from initial public
    offerings or other corporate transactions, and are valued based
    on quoted market prices. For positions that are not traded in
    active markets or are subject to transfer restrictions,
    valuations are adjusted to reflect illiquidity
     and/or 
     non-transferability. 
    Such adjustments are generally based on available market
    evidence. In the absence of such evidence, management s
    best estimate is used.

Our most significant public principal investment is our
    investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC. Our investment in
    ICBC is valued using the quoted market price adjusted for
    transfer restrictions. The ordinary shares acquired from ICBC
    are subject to transfer restrictions that, among other things,
    prohibit any sale, disposition or other transfer until
    April 28, 2009. From April 28, 2009 to
    October 20, 2009, we may transfer up to 50% of the
    aggregate ordinary shares of ICBC that we owned as of
    October 20, 2006. We may transfer the remaining shares
    after October 20, 2009. A portion of our interest is
    held by investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs.

68

Table of Contents   

We also have an investment in the convertible preferred stock of
    SMFG. This investment is valued using a model that is
    principally based on SMFG s common stock price. During our
    second quarter of 2008, we converted
     one-third  of
    our SMFG preferred stock investment into SMFG common stock, and
    delivered the common stock to close out
     one-third  of
    our hedge position. As of November 2008, we remained hedged
    on the common stock underlying our remaining investment in SMFG.

Private Principal Investments.   Our private
    principal investments held within the Principal Investments
    component of our Trading and Principal Investments segment
    include investments in private equity, debt and real estate,
    primarily held through investment funds. By their nature, these
    investments have little or no price transparency. We value such
    instruments initially at transaction price and adjust valuations
    when evidence is available to support such adjustments. Such
    evidence includes transactions in similar instruments, completed
    or pending third-party transactions in the underlying investment
    or comparable entities, subsequent rounds of financing,
    recapitalizations and other transactions across the capital
    structure, offerings in the equity or debt capital markets, and
    changes in financial ratios or cash flows.

Derivative Contracts.   Derivative contracts can
    be
     exchange-traded 
    or
     over-the-counter 
    (OTC). We generally value
     exchange-traded 
    derivatives using models which calibrate to
     market-clearing 
    levels and eliminate timing differences between the closing
    price of the
     exchange-traded 
    derivatives and their underlying instruments.

OTC derivatives are valued using market transactions and other
    market evidence whenever possible, including
     market-based 
    inputs to models, model calibration to
     market-clearing 
    transactions, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative
    pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.
    Where models are used, the selection of a particular model to
    value an OTC derivative depends upon the contractual terms of,
    and specific risks inherent in, the instrument as well as the
    availability of pricing information in the market. We generally
    use similar models to value similar instruments. Valuation
    models require a variety of inputs, including contractual terms,
    market prices, yield curves, credit curves, measures of
    volatility, prepayment rates and correlations of such inputs.
    For OTC derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as
    generic forwards, swaps and options, model inputs can generally
    be verified and model selection does not involve significant
    management judgment.

Certain OTC derivatives trade in less liquid markets with
    limited pricing information, and the determination of fair value
    for these derivatives is inherently more difficult. Where we do
    not have corroborating market evidence to support significant
    model inputs and cannot verify the model to market transactions,
    the transaction price is initially used as the best estimate of
    fair value. Accordingly, when a pricing model is used to value
    such an instrument, the model is adjusted so that the model
    value at inception equals the transaction price. Subsequent to
    initial recognition, we only update valuation inputs when
    corroborated by evidence such as similar market transactions,
     third-party 
    pricing services
     and/or 
    broker or dealer quotations, or other empirical market data. In
    circumstances where we cannot verify the model value to market
    transactions, it is possible that a different valuation model
    could produce a materially different estimate of fair value. See
       Derivatives  below for further
    information on our OTC derivatives.

When appropriate, valuations are adjusted for various factors
    such as liquidity, bid/offer spreads and credit considerations.
    Such adjustments are generally based on available market
    evidence. In the absence of such evidence, management s
    best estimate is used.

Controls Over Valuation of Financial
    Instruments.   A control infrastructure,
    independent of the trading and investing functions, is
    fundamental to ensuring that our financial instruments are
    appropriately valued at
     market-clearing 
    levels (exit price) and that fair value measurements are
    reliable and consistently determined.

69

Table of Contents   

We employ an oversight structure that includes appropriate
    segregation of duties. Senior management, independent of the
    trading and investing functions, is responsible for the
    oversight of control and valuation policies and for reporting
    the results of these policies to our Audit Committee. We seek to
    maintain the necessary resources to ensure that control
    functions are performed appropriately. We employ procedures for
    the approval of new transaction types and markets, price
    verification, review of daily profit and loss, and review of
    valuation models by personnel with appropriate technical
    knowledge of relevant products and markets. These procedures are
    performed by personnel independent of the trading and investing
    functions. For financial instruments where prices or valuations
    that require inputs are less observable, we employ, where
    possible, procedures that include comparisons with similar
    observable positions, analysis of actual to projected cash
    flows, comparisons with subsequent sales, reviews of valuations
    used for collateral management purposes and discussions with
    senior business leaders. See
        Market 
    Risk  and
        Credit 
    Risk  below for a further discussion of how we manage the
    risks inherent in our trading and principal investing businesses.

Fair Value Hierarchy  
    Level 3.   SFAS No. 157 establishes
    a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation
    techniques used to measure fair value. The objective of a fair
    value measurement is to determine the price that would be
    received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an
    orderly transaction between market participants at the
    measurement date (the exit price). The hierarchy gives the
    highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets
    for identical assets or liabilities (level 1 measurements)
    and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (level 3
    measurements). Assets and liabilities are classified in their
    entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant
    to the fair value measurement.

Instruments that trade infrequently and therefore have little or
    no price transparency are classified within level 3 of the
    fair value hierarchy. We determine which instruments are
    classified within level 3 based on the results of our price
    verification process. This process is performed by personnel
    independent of our trading and investing functions who
    corroborate valuations to external market data
    (e.g., quoted market prices, broker or dealer quotations,
     third-party 
    pricing vendors, recent trading activity and comparative
    analyses to similar instruments). When broker or dealer
    quotations or third-party pricing vendors are used for valuation
    or price verification, greater priority is given to executable
    quotes. As part of our price verification process, valuations
    based on quotes are corroborated by comparison both to other
    quotes and to recent trading activity in the same or similar
    instruments. The number of quotes obtained varies by instrument
    and depends on the liquidity of the particular instrument. See
    Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding SFAS No. 157.

Recent market conditions, particularly in the fourth quarter of
    2008 (characterized by dislocations between asset classes,
    elevated levels of volatility, and reduced price transparency),
    have increased the level of management judgment required to
    value cash trading instruments classified within level 3 of
    the fair value hierarchy. In particular, management s
    judgment is required to determine the appropriate
     risk-adjusted 
    discount rate for cash trading instruments with little or no
    price transparency as a result of decreased volumes and lower
    levels of trading activity. In such situations, our valuation is
    adjusted to approximate rates which market participants would
    likely consider appropriate for relevant credit and liquidity
    risks.

Valuation Methodologies for Level 3
    Assets.   Instruments classified within
    level 3 of the fair value hierarchy are initially valued at
    transaction price, which is considered to be the best initial
    estimate of fair value. As time passes, transaction price
    becomes less reliable as an estimate of fair value and
    accordingly, we use other methodologies to determine fair value,
    which vary based on the type of instrument, as described below.
    Regardless of the methodology, valuation inputs and assumptions
    are only changed when corroborated by substantive evidence.
    Senior management in control functions, independent of the
    trading and investing functions, reviews all significant
    unrealized gains/losses, including the primary drivers of the
    change in value. Valuations are further corroborated by values
    realized upon

70

Table of Contents   

sales of our level 3 assets. An overview of methodologies
    used to value our level 3 assets subsequent to the
    transaction date is as follows:

Private equity and real estate fund
    investments.   Investments are generally held at
    cost for the first year. Recent
     third-party 
    investments or pending transactions are considered to be the
    best evidence for any change in fair value. In the absence of
    such evidence, valuations are based on third-party independent
    appraisals, transactions in similar instruments, discounted cash
    flow techniques, valuation multiples and public comparables.
    Such evidence includes pending reorganizations
    (e.g., merger proposals, tender offers or debt
    restructurings); and significant changes in financial metrics
    (e.g., operating results as compared to previous
    projections, industry multiples, credit ratings and balance
    sheet ratios).

Bank loans and bridge loans and Corporate debt securities and
    other debt obligations.  Valuations are generally based on
    discounted cash flow techniques, for which the key inputs are
    the amount and timing of expected future cash flows, market
    yields for such instruments and recovery assumptions. Inputs are
    generally determined based on relative value analyses, which
    incorporate comparisons both to credit default swaps that
    reference the same underlying credit risk and to other debt
    instruments for the same issuer for which observable prices or
    broker quotes are available.

Loans and securities backed by commercial real estate. 
    Loans and securities backed by commercial real estate are
    collateralized by specific assets and are generally tranched
    into varying levels of subordination. Due to the nature of these
    instruments, valuation techniques vary by instrument.
    Methodologies include relative value analyses across different
    tranches, comparisons to transactions in both the underlying
    collateral and instruments with the same or substantially the
    same underlying collateral, market indices (such as the CMBX
     (1) ), and

    credit default swaps, as well as discounted cash flow techniques.

Loans and securities backed by residential real estate. 
    Valuations are based on both proprietary and industry recognized
    models (including Intex and Bloomberg), discounted cash flow
    techniques and hypothetical securitization analyses. In the
    recent market environment, the most significant inputs to the
    valuation of these instruments are rates of delinquency, default
    and loss expectations, which are driven in part by housing
    prices. Inputs are determined based on relative value analyses,
    which incorporate comparisons to instruments with similar
    collateral and risk profiles, including relevant indices such as
    the ABX
     (1) .

Loan portfolios.   Valuations are based on
    discounted cash flow techniques, for which the key inputs are
    the amount and timing of expected future cash flows and market
    yields for such instruments. Inputs are determined based on
    relative value analyses which incorporate comparisons to recent
    auction data for other similar loan portfolios.

Derivative contracts.   Valuation models are
    calibrated to initial transaction price. Subsequent changes in
    valuations are based on observable inputs to the valuation
    models (e.g., interest rates, credit spreads, volatilities,
    etc.). Inputs are changed only when corroborated by market data.
    Valuations of less liquid OTC derivatives are typically based on
    level 1 or level 2 inputs that can be observed in the
    market, as well as unobservable inputs, such as correlations and
    volatilities.

Total level 3 assets were $66.19 billion and
    $69.15 billion as of November 2008 and
    November 2007, respectively. The decrease in level 3
    assets for the year ended November 2008 primarily reflected
    (i) unrealized losses on loans and securities backed by
    commercial real estate, bank loans and bridge loans, and private
    equity and real estate fund investments, and (ii) sales and
    paydowns on bank loans and bridge loans and loan portfolios.
    These decreases were partially offset by transfers to
    level 3 of certain loans and securities backed by
    commercial real estate due to reduced price transparency.

(1)  The

    CMBX and ABX are indices that track the performance of
    commercial mortgage bonds and subprime residential mortgage
    bonds, respectively.

71

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth the fair values of financial
    assets classified as level 3 within the fair value
    hierarchy:

Level 3
    Financial Assets at Fair Value 
       (in
    millions)

(1)  

Includes $1.18 billion and $7.06 billion as of
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively, of
    assets for which we do not bear economic exposure. Also includes
    $2.62 billion and $2.02 billion as of
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively, of real
    estate fund investments.

(2)  

Includes mezzanine financing, leveraged loans arising from
    capital market transactions and other corporate bank debt.

(3)  

Includes $804 million and $2.49 billion as of
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively, of CDOs
    backed by corporate obligations.

(4)  

Consists of acquired portfolios of distressed loans, primarily
    backed by commercial and residential real estate collateral.

(5)  

We do not bear economic exposure to these level 3 assets as
    they are financed by nonrecourse debt, attributable to minority
    investors or attributable to employee interests in certain
    consolidated funds.

72

Table of Contents   

Loans and securities backed by residential real
    estate.   We securitize, underwrite and make
    markets in various types of residential mortgages, including
    prime,  Alt-A 
    and subprime. At any point in time, we may use cash instruments
    as well as derivatives to manage our long or short risk position
    in residential real estate. The following table sets forth the
    fair value of our long positions in prime,
     Alt-A  and
    subprime mortgage cash instruments:

Long Positions in
    Loans and Securities Backed by Residential Real Estate 
       (in
    millions)

Loans and securities backed by commercial real
    estate.   We originate, securitize and syndicate
    fixed and floating rate commercial mortgages globally. At any
    point in time, we may use cash instruments as well as
    derivatives to manage our risk position in the commercial
    mortgage market. The following table sets forth the fair value
    of our long positions in loans and securities backed by
    commercial real estate by geographic region. The decrease in
    loans and securities backed by commercial real estate from
    November 2007 to November 2008 was primarily due to
    dispositions.

Long Positions in
    Loans and Securities Backed by 
    Commercial Real Estate by Geographic Region 
        (in
    millions)

73

Table of Contents   

Other Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities at Fair
    Value.   In addition to  Trading assets, at
    fair value  and  Trading liabilities, at fair
    value,  we have elected to account for certain of our other
    financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value under
    the fair value option. The primary reasons for electing the fair
    value option are to reflect economic events in earnings on a
    timely basis, to mitigate volatility in earnings from using
    different measurement attributes and to address simplification
    and
     cost-benefit 
    considerations.

Such financial assets and financial liabilities accounted for at
    fair value include:

certain unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings, consisting of all promissory notes and commercial
    paper and certain hybrid financial instruments;

certain other secured financings, primarily transfers accounted
    for as financings rather than sales under
    SFAS No. 140, debt raised through our William Street
    program and certain other nonrecourse financings;

certain unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings, including prepaid physical commodity transactions;

resale and repurchase agreements;

securities borrowed and loaned within Trading and Principal
    Investments, consisting of our matched book and certain firm
    financing activities;

certain corporate loans, loan commitments and certificates of
    deposit issued by GS Bank USA as well as securities held by GS
    Bank USA;

receivables from customers and counterparties arising from
    transfers accounted for as secured loans rather than purchases
    under SFAS No. 140;

certain insurance and reinsurance contracts; and

in general, investments acquired after the adoption of
    SFAS No. 159 where we have significant influence over
    the investee and would otherwise apply the equity method of
    accounting. In certain cases, we may apply the equity method of
    accounting to new investments that are strategic in nature or
    closely related to our principal business activities, where we
    have a significant degree of involvement in the cash flows or
    operations of the investee, or where
     cost-benefit 
    considerations are less significant.

Goodwill and
    Identifiable Intangible Assets  

As a result of our acquisitions, principally SLK LLC (SLK) in
    2000, The Ayco Company, L.P. (Ayco) in 2003 and our variable
    annuity and life insurance business in 2006, we have acquired
    goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. Goodwill is the
    cost of acquired companies in excess of the fair value of net
    assets, including identifiable intangible assets, at the
    acquisition date.

Goodwill.   We test the goodwill in each of our
    operating segments, which are components one level below our
    three business segments, for impairment at least annually in
    accordance with SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other
    Intangible Assets,  by comparing the estimated fair value
    of each operating segment with its estimated net book value. We
    derive the fair value of each of our operating segments based on
    valuation techniques we believe market participants would use
    for each segment (observable average price-to-earnings multiples
    of our competitors in these businesses and price-to-book
    multiples). We derive the net book value of our operating
    segments by estimating the amount of shareholders  equity
    required to support the activities of each operating segment.
    Our last annual impairment test was performed during our 2008
    fourth quarter and no impairment was identified. Substantially
    all of our goodwill is in our Equities component of our Trading
    and Principal Investments segment and in our Asset Management
    and Securities Services segment. Our Asset Management and
    Securities Services segment generated record net revenues in
    2008 and our Equities component of our Trading and Principal
    Investments segment had its second best year following its
    record net revenues in 2007.

74

Table of Contents   

During 2008, particularly during the fourth quarter, the
    financial services industry and the securities markets generally
    were materially and adversely affected by significant declines
    in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack
    of liquidity. Our stock price, consistent with stock prices in
    the broader financial services sector, declined significantly
    during this period of time. During the fourth quarter of 2008,
    our market capitalization fell below recorded book value,
    principally during the last five weeks of the quarter. With
    respect to the testing of our goodwill for impairment, we
    believe that it is reasonable to consider market capitalization
    as an indicator of fair value over a reasonable period of time.
    If the current economic market conditions persist and if there
    is a prolonged period of weakness in the business environment
    and financial markets, our businesses may be adversely affected,
    which could result in an impairment of goodwill in the future.

The following table sets forth the carrying value of our
    goodwill by operating segment:

Goodwill by
    Operating Segment 
       (in
    millions)

(1)   

Primarily related to SLK.

(2)   

Primarily related to Ayco.

Identifiable Intangible Assets.   We amortize
    our identifiable intangible assets over their estimated lives in
    accordance with SFAS No. 142 or, in the case of
    insurance contracts, in accordance with SFAS No. 60,
     Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises, 
    and SFAS No. 97,  Accounting and Reporting by
    Insurance Enterprises for Certain
     Long-Duration 
    Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of
    Investments.  Identifiable intangible assets are tested for
    impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest
    that an asset s or asset group s carrying value may
    not be fully recoverable in accordance with
    SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or
    Disposal of
     Long-Lived 
    Assets,  or SFAS No. 60 and
    SFAS No. 97. An impairment loss, generally calculated
    as the difference between the estimated fair value and the
    carrying value of an asset or asset group, is recognized if the
    sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows relating to the
    asset or asset group is less than the corresponding carrying
    value.

75

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth the carrying value and range of
    remaining lives of our identifiable intangible assets by major
    asset class:

Identifiable
    Intangible Assets by Asset Class 
       ($ in
    millions)

(1)   

Primarily includes our clearance
    and execution and NASDAQ customer lists related to SLK and
    financial counseling customer lists related to Ayco.

(2)   

Consists of the value of business
    acquired (VOBA) and deferred acquisition costs (DAC). VOBA
    represents the present value of estimated future gross profits
    of acquired variable annuity and life insurance businesses. DAC
    results from commissions paid by Goldman Sachs to the primary
    insurer (ceding company) on life and annuity reinsurance
    agreements as compensation to place the business with us and to
    cover the ceding company s acquisition expenses. VOBA and
    DAC are amortized over the estimated life of the underlying
    contracts based on estimated gross profits, and amortization is
    adjusted based on actual experience. The
     seven-year 
    estimated life represents the weighted average remaining
    amortization period of the underlying contracts (certain of
    which extend for approximately 30 years).

(3)   

Primarily includes
    marketing-related assets and power contracts.

A prolonged period of weakness in global equity markets and the
    trading of securities in multiple markets and on multiple
    exchanges could adversely impact our businesses and impair the
    value of our identifiable intangible assets. In addition,
    certain events could indicate a potential impairment of our
    identifiable intangible assets, including (i) changes in
    market structure that could adversely affect our specialist
    businesses (see discussion below), (ii) an adverse action
    or assessment by a regulator, or (iii) adverse actual
    experience on the contracts in our variable annuity and life
    insurance business.

In October 2008, the SEC approved the NYSE s proposal
    to create a new market model and redefine the role of NYSE DMMs.
    This new rule set further aligns the NYSE s model with
    investor requirements for speed and efficiency of execution and
    establishes specialists as DMMs. While DMMs still have an
    obligation to commit capital, they are now able to trade on
    parity with other market participants. In addition, in
    November 2008 the NYSE introduced a reserve order type that
    allows for anonymous trade execution, which is expected to allow
    the NYSE to recapture liquidity and market share from other
    venues in which anonymous reserve orders have been available for
    some time. The new rule set and the launch of the reserve order
    type, in combination with technology improvements to increase
    execution speed, are expected to bolster the NYSE s
    competitive position.

76

Table of Contents   

In 2007, we tested our NYSE DMM rights for impairment in
    accordance with SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the
    Impairment or Disposal of
     Long-Lived 
    Assets.  Under SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss
    is recognized if the carrying amount of our NYSE DMM rights
    exceeds the projected undiscounted cash flows of the business
    over the estimated remaining life of our NYSE DMM rights.
    Projected undiscounted cash flows exceeded the carrying amount
    of our NYSE DMM rights, and accordingly we did not record an
    impairment loss. In projecting the undiscounted cash flows of
    the business, we made several important assumptions about the
    potential beneficial effects of the rule and market structure
    changes described above. Specifically, we assumed that:

total equity trading volumes in NYSE-listed companies will
    continue to grow at a rate consistent with recent historical
    trends;

the NYSE will be able to recapture approximately
     one-half  of
    the market share that it lost in 2007; and

we will increase our market share of the NYSE DMM business and,
    as a DMM, the profitability of each share traded.

We also assumed that the rule changes would be implemented in
    our fiscal fourth quarter of 2008 (as noted above, such rule
    changes were approved in October 2008) and that
    projected cash flow increases related to the implementation of
    the rule set would begin in 2009, consistent with the
    assumptions above. Subsequently, there have been no events or
    changes in circumstances indicating that NYSE DMM rights
    intangible asset may not be recoverable. However, there can be
    no assurance that the assumptions, rule or structure changes
    described above will result in sufficient cash flows to avoid
    impairment of our NYSE DMM rights in the future. We will
    continue to evaluate the performance of the specialist business
    under the new market model. As of November 2008, the
    carrying value of our NYSE DMM rights was $462 million. To
    the extent that there were to be an impairment in the future, it
    could result in a significant writedown in the carrying value of
    these DMM rights.

Use of
    Estimates  

The use of generally accepted accounting principles requires
    management to make certain estimates and assumptions. In
    addition to the estimates we make in connection with fair value
    measurements and the accounting for goodwill and identifiable
    intangible assets, the use of estimates and assumptions is also
    important in determining provisions for potential losses that
    may arise from litigation and regulatory proceedings and tax
    audits.

We estimate and provide for potential losses that may arise out
    of litigation and regulatory proceedings to the extent that such
    losses are probable and can be estimated, in accordance with
    SFAS No. 5,  Accounting for Contingencies. 
    We estimate and provide for potential liabilities that may arise
    out of tax audits to the extent that uncertain tax positions
    fail to meet the recognition standard of FIN 48,
     Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an
    Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109.  See
    Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information on FIN 48.

Significant judgment is required in making these estimates and
    our final liabilities may ultimately be materially different.
    Our total estimated liability in respect of litigation and
    regulatory proceedings is determined on a
     case-by-case 
    basis and represents an estimate of probable losses after
    considering, among other factors, the progress of each case or
    proceeding, our experience and the experience of others in
    similar cases or proceedings, and the opinions and views of
    legal counsel. Given the inherent difficulty of predicting the
    outcome of our litigation and regulatory matters, particularly
    in cases or proceedings in which substantial or indeterminate
    damages or fines are sought, we cannot estimate losses or ranges
    of losses for cases or proceedings where there is only a
    reasonable possibility that a loss may be incurred. See
        Legal 
    Proceedings  in Part I, Item 3 of our Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for information on our judicial, regulatory and arbitration
    proceedings.

77

Table of Contents   

Results of
    Operations  

The composition of our net revenues has varied over time as
    financial markets and the scope of our operations have changed.
    The composition of net revenues can also vary over the shorter
    term due to fluctuations in U.S. and global economic and
    market conditions. See
        Certain 
    Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses  above and
     Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of our
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for a further discussion of the impact of economic and market
    conditions on our results of operations.

Financial
    Overview  

The following table sets forth an overview of our financial
    results:

Financial
    Overview 
       ($ in
    millions, except per share amounts)

(1)   

Return on average common
    shareholders  equity (ROE) is computed by dividing net
    earnings applicable to common shareholders by average monthly
    common shareholders  equity.

(2)   

Tangible common shareholders 
    equity equals total shareholders  equity less preferred
    stock, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, excluding
    power contracts. Identifiable intangible assets associated with
    power contracts are not deducted from total shareholders 
    equity because, unlike other intangible assets, less than 50% of
    these assets are supported by common shareholders  equity.

We believe that return on average tangible common
    shareholders  equity (ROTE) is meaningful because it
    measures the performance of businesses consistently, whether
    they were acquired or developed internally. ROTE is computed by
    dividing net earnings applicable to common shareholders by
    average monthly tangible common shareholders  equity.

The following table sets forth the reconciliation of average
    total shareholders  equity to average tangible common
    shareholders  equity:

78

Table of Contents   

Net
    Revenues   

2008 versus 2007.   Our net revenues were
    $22.22 billion in 2008, a decrease of 52% compared with
    2007, reflecting a particularly difficult operating environment,
    including significant asset price declines, high levels of
    volatility and reduced levels of liquidity, particularly in the
    fourth quarter. In addition, credit markets experienced
    significant dislocation between prices for cash instruments and
    the related derivative contracts and between credit indices and
    underlying single names. Net revenues in Trading and Principal
    Investments were significantly lower compared with 2007,
    reflecting significant declines in FICC, Principal Investments
    and Equities. The decrease in FICC primarily reflected losses in
    credit products, which included a loss of approximately
    $3.1 billion (net of hedges) related to
     non-investment-grade 
    credit origination activities and losses from investments,
    including corporate debt and private and public equities.
    Results in mortgages included net losses of approximately
    $1.7 billion on residential mortgage loans and securities
    and approximately $1.4 billion on commercial mortgage loans
    and securities. Interest rate products, currencies and
    commodities each produced particularly strong results and net
    revenues were higher compared with 2007. During 2008, although
    client-driven activity was generally solid, FICC operated in a
    challenging environment characterized by
     broad-based 
    declines in asset values, wider mortgage and corporate credit
    spreads, reduced levels of liquidity and
     broad-based 
    investor deleveraging, particularly in the second half of the
    year. The decline in Principal Investments primarily reflected
    net losses of $2.53 billion from corporate principal
    investments and $949 million from real estate principal
    investments, as well as a $446 million loss from our
    investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC. In Equities, the
    decrease compared with particularly strong net revenues in 2007
    reflected losses in principal strategies, partially offset by
    higher net revenues in our client franchise businesses.
    Commissions were particularly strong and were higher than 2007.
    During 2008, Equities operated in an environment characterized
    by a significant decline in global equity prices,
     broad-based 
    investor deleveraging and very high levels of volatility,
    particularly in the second half of the year.

Net revenues in Investment Banking also declined significantly
    compared with 2007, reflecting significantly lower net revenues
    in both Financial Advisory and Underwriting. In Financial
    Advisory, the decrease compared with particularly strong net
    revenues in 2007 reflected a decline in
     industry-wide 
    completed mergers and acquisitions. The decrease in Underwriting
    primarily reflected significantly lower net revenues in debt
    underwriting, primarily due to a decline in leveraged finance
    and
     mortgage-related 
    activity, reflecting difficult market conditions. Net revenues
    in equity underwriting were slightly lower compared with 2007,
    reflecting a decrease in
     industry-wide 
    equity and
     equity-related 
    offerings.

Net revenues in Asset Management and Securities Services
    increased compared with 2007. Securities Services net revenues
    were higher, reflecting the impact of changes in the composition
    of securities lending customer balances, as well as higher total
    average customer balances. Asset Management net revenues
    increased slightly compared with 2007. During the year, assets
    under management decreased $89 billion to
    $779 billion, due to $123 billion of market
    depreciation, primarily in equity assets, partially offset by
    $34 billion of net inflows.

79

Table of Contents   

2007 versus 2006.   Our net revenues were
    $45.99 billion in 2007, an increase of 22% compared with
    2006, reflecting significantly higher net revenues in Trading
    and Principal Investments and Investment Banking, and higher net
    revenues in Asset Management and Securities Services. The
    increase in Trading and Principal Investments reflected higher
    net revenues in Equities, FICC and Principal Investments. Net
    revenues in Equities increased 33% compared with 2006,
    reflecting significantly higher net revenues in both our client
    franchise businesses and principal strategies. During 2007,
    Equities operated in an environment characterized by strong
    client-driven activity, generally higher equity prices and
    higher levels of volatility, particularly during the second half
    of the year. The increase in FICC reflected significantly higher
    net revenues in currencies and interest rate products. In
    addition, net revenues in mortgages were higher despite a
    significant deterioration in the mortgage market throughout the
    year, while net revenues in credit products were strong, but
    slightly lower compared with 2006. Credit products included
    substantial gains from equity investments, including a gain of
    approximately $900 million related to the disposition of
    Horizon Wind Energy L.L.C., as well as a loss of approximately
    $1 billion (net of hedges) related to
     non-investment-grade 
    credit origination activities. During 2007, FICC operated in an
    environment generally characterized by strong client-driven
    activity and favorable market opportunities. However, during the
    year, the mortgage market experienced significant deterioration
    and, in the second half of the year, the broader credit markets
    were characterized by wider spreads and reduced levels of
    liquidity. The increase in Principal Investments reflected
    strong results in both corporate and real estate investing.

The increase in Investment Banking reflected a 64% increase in
    Financial Advisory net revenues and a strong performance in our
    Underwriting business. The increase in Financial Advisory
    primarily reflected growth in
     industry-wide 
    completed mergers and acquisitions. The increase in Underwriting
    reflected higher net revenues in debt underwriting, as leveraged
    finance activity was strong during the first half of our fiscal
    year, while net revenues in equity underwriting were strong but
    essentially unchanged from 2006.

Net revenues in Asset Management and Securities Services also
    increased. The increase in Securities Services primarily
    reflected significant growth in global customer balances. The
    increase in Asset Management reflected significantly higher
    asset management fees, partially offset by significantly lower
    incentive fees. During the year, assets under management
    increased $192 billion, or 28%, to $868 billion,
    including net inflows of $161 billion.

80

Table of Contents   

Operating
    Expenses   

Our operating expenses are primarily influenced by compensation,
    headcount and levels of business activity. A substantial portion
    of our compensation expense represents discretionary bonuses
    which are significantly impacted by, among other factors, the
    level of net revenues, prevailing labor markets, business mix
    and the structure of our
     share-based 
    compensation programs. For 2008, our ratio of compensation and
    benefits (excluding severance costs of approximately
    $275 million in the fourth quarter of 2008) to net
    revenues was 48.0%. Our ratio of compensation and benefits to
    net revenues was 43.9% for 2007.

The following table sets forth our operating expenses and number
    of employees:

Operating
    Expenses and Employees 
       ($ in
    millions)

(1)   

Compensation and benefits includes
    $262 million, $168 million and $259 million for
    the years ended November 2008, November 2007 and
    November 2006, respectively, attributable to consolidated
    entities held for investment purposes. Consolidated entities
    held for investment purposes are entities that are held strictly
    for capital appreciation, have a defined exit strategy and are
    engaged in activities that are not closely related to our
    principal businesses.

(2)   

Beginning in the first quarter of
    2008,  Cost of power generation  was reclassified into
     Other expenses  in the consolidated statements of
    earnings. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the
    current presentation.

(3)   

Excludes 4,671, 4,572 and 3,868
    employees as of November 2008, November 2007 and
    November 2006, respectively, of consolidated entities held
    for investment purposes (see footnote 1 above).

81

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth
     non-compensation 
    expenses of consolidated entities held for investment purposes
    and our remaining
     non-compensation 
    expenses by line item:

Non-Compensation 
    Expenses 
       (in
    millions)

(1)   

Consolidated entities held for
    investment purposes are entities that are held strictly for
    capital appreciation, have a defined exit strategy and are
    engaged in activities that are not closely related to our
    principal businesses. For example, these investments include
    consolidated entities that hold real estate assets, such as
    hotels, but exclude investments in entities that primarily hold
    financial assets. We believe that it is meaningful to review
     non-compensation 
    expenses excluding expenses related to these consolidated
    entities in order to evaluate trends in
     non-compensation 
    expenses related to our principal business activities. Revenues
    related to such entities are included in  Trading and
    principal investments  in the consolidated statements of
    earnings.

(2)   

Beginning in the first quarter of
    2008,  Cost of power generation  was reclassified into
     Other expenses  in the consolidated statements of
    earnings. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the
    current presentation.

2008 versus 2007.   Operating expenses were
    $19.89 billion for 2008, 30% lower than 2007. Compensation
    and benefits expenses (including salaries, bonuses, amortization
    of prior year equity awards and other items such as payroll
    taxes and benefits) of $10.93 billion decreased 46%
    compared with 2007, reflecting lower levels of discretionary
    compensation due to lower net revenues. For 2008, our ratio of
    compensation and benefits (excluding severance costs of
    approximately $275 million in the fourth quarter of
    2008) to net revenues was 48.0%. Our ratio of compensation
    and benefits to net revenues was 43.9% for 2007. Employment
    levels decreased 1% compared with November 2007, reflecting
    an 8% decrease during the fourth quarter.

Non-compensation 
    expenses of $8.95 billion for 2008 increased 9% compared
    with 2007. Excluding consolidated entities held for investment
    purposes,
     non-compensation 
    expenses increased 5% compared with 2007. The majority of this
    increase was attributable to higher brokerage, clearing,
    exchange and distribution fees, principally reflecting higher
    activity levels in Equities and FICC. The increase in
     non-compensation 
    expenses related to consolidated entities held for investment
    purposes primarily reflected the impact of impairment on certain
    real estate assets during 2008.

2007 versus 2006.   Operating expenses were
    $28.38 billion for 2007, 23% higher than 2006. Compensation
    and benefits expenses of $20.19 billion increased 23%
    compared with 2006, reflecting increased discretionary
    compensation and growth in employment levels. The ratio of
    compensation and benefits to net revenues for 2007 was 43.9%
    compared with 43.7% for 2006. Employment levels increased 15%
    compared with November 2006.

82

Table of Contents   

Non-compensation 
    expenses of $8.19 billion for 2007 increased 23% compared
    with 2006, primarily attributable to higher levels of business
    activity and continued geographic expansion.
     One-half  of
    this increase was attributable to brokerage, clearing, exchange
    and distribution fees, principally reflecting higher transaction
    volumes in Equities. Professional fees, other expenses and
    communications and technology expenses also increased, primarily
    due to higher levels of business activity. Occupancy and
    depreciation and amortization expenses in 2007 included exit
    costs of $128 million related to our office space.

Provision for
    Taxes   

The effective income tax rate was approximately 1% for 2008,
    down from 34.1% for 2007. The decrease in the effective income
    tax rate was primarily due to an increase in permanent benefits
    as a percentage of lower earnings and changes in geographic
    earnings mix. The effective income tax rate was 34.1% for 2007,
    down from 34.5% for 2006, primarily due to changes in the
    geographic mix of earnings.

Our effective income tax rate can vary from period to period
    depending on, among other factors, the geographic and business
    mix of our earnings, the level of our
     pre-tax 
    earnings, the level of our tax credits and the effect of tax
    audits. Certain of these and other factors, including our
    history of
     pre-tax 
    earnings, are taken into account in assessing our ability to
    realize our net deferred tax assets. See Note 16 to the
    consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8
    of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding our provision for taxes.

83

Table of Contents   

Segment Operating
    Results  

The following table sets forth the net revenues, operating
    expenses and
     pre-tax 
    earnings of our segments:

Segment Operating
    Results 
       (in
    millions)

(1)   

Operating expenses include net
    provisions for a number of litigation and regulatory proceedings
    of $(4) million, $37 million and $45 million for the
    years ended November 2008, November 2007 and
    November 2006, respectively, that have not been allocated
    to our segments.

Net revenues in our segments include allocations of interest
    income and interest expense to specific securities, commodities
    and other positions in relation to the cash generated by, or
    funding requirements of, such underlying positions. See
    Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding our business segments.

The cost drivers of Goldman Sachs taken as a whole  
    compensation, headcount and levels of business
    activity   are broadly similar in each of our business
    segments. Compensation and benefits expenses within our segments
    reflect, among other factors, the overall performance of Goldman
    Sachs as well as the performance of individual business units.
    Consequently,
     pre-tax 
    margins in one segment of our business may be significantly
    affected by the performance of our other business segments. A
    discussion of segment operating results follows.

84

Table of Contents   

Investment
    Banking   

Our Investment Banking segment is divided into two components:

Financial Advisory.   Financial Advisory
    includes advisory assignments with respect to mergers and
    acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense activities,
    restructurings and
     spin-offs. 

Underwriting.   Underwriting includes public
    offerings and private placements of a wide range of securities
    and other financial instruments.

The following table sets forth the operating results of our
    Investment Banking segment:

Investment
    Banking Operating Results 
       (in
    millions)

The following table sets forth our financial advisory and
    underwriting transaction volumes:

Goldman Sachs
    Global Investment Banking Volumes
        (1) 

       (in
    billions)

(1)   

Source: Thomson Reuters. Announced
    and completed mergers and acquisitions volumes are based on full
    credit to each of the advisors in a transaction. Equity and
     equity-related 
    offerings and debt offerings are based on full credit for single
    book managers and equal credit for joint book managers.
    Transaction volumes may not be indicative of net revenues in a
    given period. In addition, transaction volumes for prior periods
    may vary from amounts previously reported due to the subsequent
    withdrawal or a change in the value of a previously announced
    transaction.

(2)   

Includes Rule 144A and public
    common stock offerings, convertible offerings and rights
    offerings.

(3)   

Includes
     non-convertible 
    preferred stock,
     mortgage-backed 
    securities,
     asset-backed 
    securities and taxable municipal debt. Includes publicly
    registered and Rule 144A issues.

85

Table of Contents   

2008 versus 2007 . Net revenues in Investment Banking of
    $5.19 billion for 2008 decreased 31% compared with 2007.

Net revenues in Financial Advisory of $2.66 billion
    decreased 37% compared with particularly strong net revenues in
    2007, primarily reflecting a decline in
     industry-wide 
    completed mergers and acquisitions. Net revenues in our
    Underwriting business of $2.53 billion decreased 24%
    compared with 2007, principally due to significantly lower net
    revenues in debt underwriting. The decrease in debt underwriting
    was primarily due to a decline in leveraged finance and
     mortgage-related 
    activity, reflecting difficult market conditions. Net revenues
    in equity underwriting were slightly lower compared with 2007,
    reflecting a decrease in
     industry-wide 
    equity and
     equity-related 
    offerings. Our investment banking transaction backlog ended the
    year significantly lower than at the end of 2007.
     (1) 

Operating expenses of $3.14 billion for 2008 decreased 37%
    compared with 2007, due to decreased compensation and benefits
    expenses, resulting from lower levels of discretionary
    compensation.
     Pre-tax 
    earnings of $2.04 billion in 2008 decreased 21% compared
    with 2007.

2007 versus 2006.   Net revenues in Investment
    Banking of $7.56 billion for 2007 increased 34% compared
    with 2006.

Net revenues in Financial Advisory of $4.22 billion
    increased 64% compared with 2006, primarily reflecting growth in
     industry-wide 
    completed mergers and acquisitions. Net revenues in our
    Underwriting business of $3.33 billion increased 9%
    compared with 2006, due to higher net revenues in debt
    underwriting, primarily reflecting strength in leveraged finance
    during the first half of 2007. Net revenues in equity
    underwriting were also strong, but essentially unchanged from
    2006. Our investment banking transaction backlog at the end of
    2007 was higher than at the end of 2006.
     (1) 

Operating expenses of $4.99 billion for 2007 increased 23%
    compared with 2006, primarily due to increased compensation and
    benefits expenses, resulting from higher discretionary
    compensation and growth in employment levels.
     Pre-tax 
    earnings of $2.57 billion in 2007 increased 64% compared
    with 2006.

Trading and
    Principal Investments   

Our Trading and Principal Investments segment is divided into
    three components:

FICC.   We make markets in and trade interest
    rate and credit products,
     mortgage-related 
    securities and loan products and other
     asset-backed 
    instruments, currencies and commodities, structure and enter
    into a wide variety of derivative transactions, and engage in
    proprietary trading and investing.

Equities.   We make markets in and trade
    equities and
     equity-related 
    products, structure and enter into equity derivative
    transactions and engage in proprietary trading. We generate
    commissions from executing and clearing client transactions on
    major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide through our
    Equities client franchise and clearing activities. We also
    engage in specialist and insurance activities.

Principal Investments.   We make real estate and
    corporate principal investments, including our investment in the
    ordinary shares of ICBC. We generate net revenues from returns
    on these investments and from the increased share of the income
    and gains derived from our merchant banking funds when the
    return on a fund s investments over the life of the fund
    exceeds certain threshold returns (typically referred to as an
    override).

(1)  Our

    investment banking transaction backlog represents an estimate of
    our future net revenues from investment banking transactions
    where we believe that future revenue realization is more likely
    than not. 

86

Table of Contents   

Substantially all of our inventory is
     marked-to-market 
    daily and, therefore, its value and our net revenues are subject
    to fluctuations based on market movements. In addition, net
    revenues derived from our principal investments, including those
    in privately held concerns and in real estate, may fluctuate
    significantly depending on the revaluation of these investments
    in any given period. We also regularly enter into large
    transactions as part of our trading businesses. The number and
    size of such transactions may affect our results of operations
    in a given period.

Net revenues from Principal Investments do not include
    management fees generated from our merchant banking funds. These
    management fees are included in the net revenues of the Asset
    Management and Securities Services segment.

The following table sets forth the operating results of our
    Trading and Principal Investments segment:

Trading and
    Principal Investments Operating Results 
       (in
    millions)

2008 versus 2007.   Net revenues in Trading and
    Principal Investments of $9.06 billion for 2008 decreased
    71% compared with 2007.

Net revenues in FICC of $3.71 billion for 2008 decreased
    77% compared with 2007, primarily reflecting losses in credit
    products, which included a loss of approximately
    $3.1 billion (net of hedges) related to
     non-investment-grade 
    credit origination activities and losses from investments,
    including corporate debt and private and public equities.
    Results in mortgages included net losses of approximately
    $1.7 billion on residential mortgage loans and securities
    and approximately $1.4 billion on commercial mortgage loans
    and securities. Interest rate products, currencies and
    commodities each produced particularly strong results and net
    revenues were higher compared with 2007. During 2008, although
    client-driven activity was generally solid, FICC operated in a
    challenging environment characterized by
     broad-based 
    declines in asset values, wider mortgage and corporate credit
    spreads, reduced levels of liquidity and
     broad-based 
    investor deleveraging, particularly in the second half of the
    year.

87

Table of Contents   

Net revenues in Equities of $9.21 billion for 2008
    decreased 19% compared with a particularly strong 2007,
    reflecting losses in principal strategies, partially offset by
    higher net revenues in the client franchise businesses.
    Commissions were particularly strong and were higher than 2007.
    During 2008, Equities operated in an environment characterized
    by a significant decline in global equity prices,
     broad-based 
    investor deleveraging and very high levels of volatility,
    particularly in the second half of the year.

Principal Investments recorded a net loss of $3.86 billion
    for 2008. These results included net losses of
    $2.53 billion from corporate principal investments and
    $949 million from real estate principal investments, as
    well as a $446 million loss related to our investment in
    the ordinary shares of ICBC.

Operating expenses of $11.81 billion for 2008 decreased 34%
    compared with 2007, due to decreased compensation and benefits
    expenses, resulting from lower levels of discretionary
    compensation. This decrease was partially offset by higher
    non-compensation expenses. Excluding consolidated entities held
    for investment purposes, the majority of this increase was
    attributable to higher brokerage, clearing, exchange and
    distribution fees, principally reflecting higher activity levels
    in Equities and FICC. The increase in non-compensation expenses
    related to consolidated entities held for investment purposes
    primarily reflected the impact of impairment on certain real
    estate assets during 2008.
     Pre-tax  loss
    was $2.75 billion in 2008 compared with
     pre-tax 
    earnings of $13.23 billion in 2007.

2007 versus 2006.   Net revenues in Trading and
    Principal Investments of $31.23 billion for 2007 increased
    22% compared with 2006.

Net revenues in FICC of $16.17 billion for 2007 increased
    13% compared with 2006, reflecting significantly higher net
    revenues in currencies and interest rate products. In addition,
    net revenues in mortgages were higher despite a significant
    deterioration in the mortgage market throughout 2007, while net
    revenues in credit products were strong, but slightly lower
    compared with 2006. Credit products included substantial gains
    from equity investments, including a gain of approximately
    $900 million related to the disposition of Horizon Wind
    Energy L.L.C., as well as a loss of approximately
    $1 billion (net of hedges) related to
     non-investment-grade 
    credit origination activities. Net revenues in commodities were
    also strong but lower compared with 2006. During 2007, FICC
    operated in an environment generally characterized by strong
    client-driven activity and favorable market opportunities.
    However, during 2007, the mortgage market experienced
    significant deterioration and, in the second half of the year,
    the broader credit markets were characterized by wider spreads
    and reduced levels of liquidity.

Net revenues in Equities of $11.30 billion for 2007
    increased 33% compared with 2006, reflecting significantly
    higher net revenues in both our client franchise businesses and
    principal strategies. The client franchise businesses benefited
    from significantly higher commission volumes. During 2007,
    Equities operated in an environment characterized by strong
    client-driven activity, generally higher equity prices and
    higher levels of volatility, particularly during the second half
    of the year.

Principal Investments recorded net revenues of
    $3.76 billion for 2007, reflecting gains and overrides from
    corporate and real estate principal investments. Results in
    Principal Investments included a $495 million gain related
    to our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC and a
    $129 million loss related to our investment in the
    convertible preferred stock of SMFG.

Operating expenses of $18.00 billion for 2007 increased 20%
    compared with 2006, primarily due to increased compensation and
    benefits expenses, resulting from higher discretionary
    compensation and growth in employment levels.
     Non-compensation 
    expenses increased due to the impact of higher levels of
    business activity and continued geographic expansion. The
    majority of this increase was in brokerage, clearing, exchange
    and distribution fees, which primarily reflected higher
    transaction volumes in Equities. Professional fees also
    increased, reflecting increased business activity.
     Pre-tax 
    earnings of $13.23 billion in 2007 increased 25% compared
    with 2006.

88

Table of Contents   

Asset
    Management and Securities Services   

Our Asset Management and Securities Services segment is divided
    into two components:

Asset Management.   Asset Management provides
    investment advisory and financial planning services and offers
    investment products (primarily through separately managed
    accounts and commingled vehicles, such as mutual funds and
    private investment funds) across all major asset classes to a
    diverse group of institutions and individuals worldwide and
    primarily generates revenues in the form of management and
    incentive fees.

Securities Services.   Securities Services
    provides prime brokerage services, financing services and
    securities lending services to institutional clients, including
    hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds and foundations, and to
     high-net-worth 
    individuals worldwide, and generates revenues primarily in the
    form of interest rate spreads or fees.

Assets under management typically generate fees as a percentage
    of asset value, which is affected by investment performance and
    by inflows and redemptions. The fees that we charge vary by
    asset class, as do our related expenses. In certain
    circumstances, we are also entitled to receive incentive fees
    based on a percentage of a fund s return or when the return
    on assets under management exceeds specified benchmark returns
    or other performance targets. Incentive fees are recognized when
    the performance period ends and they are no longer subject to
    adjustment. We have numerous incentive fee arrangements, many of
    which have annual performance periods that end on
    December 31. For that reason, incentive fees have been
    seasonally weighted to our first quarter.

The following table sets forth the operating results of our
    Asset Management and Securities Services segment:

Asset Management
    and Securities Services Operating Results 
       (in
    millions)

Assets under management include our mutual funds, alternative
    investment funds and separately managed accounts for
    institutional and individual investors. Substantially all assets
    under management are valued as of calendar month-end. Assets
    under management do not include:

assets in brokerage accounts that generate commissions,
     mark-ups  and
    spreads based on transactional activity,

our own investments in funds that we manage;

or
     non-fee-paying 
    assets, including interest-bearing deposits held through our
    depository institution subsidiaries.

89

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth our assets under management by
    asset class:

Assets Under
    Management by Asset Class 
       (in
    billions)

(1)  

    Primarily includes hedge funds, private equity, real estate,
    currencies, commodities and asset allocation strategies.

The following table sets forth a summary of the changes in our
    assets under management:

Changes in Assets
    Under Management 
       (in
    billions)

(1)   

Includes $7 billion in net
    asset inflows in connection with our acquisition of
    Macquarie   IMM Investment Management.

(2)   

Net of the transfer of
    $8 billion of money market assets under management to
    interest-bearing deposits at GS Bank USA.

(3)   

Includes $3 billion of net
    asset inflows in connection with the acquisition of our variable
    annuity and life insurance business.

2008 versus 2007.   Net revenues in Asset
    Management and Securities Services of $7.97 billion for
    2008 increased 11% compared with 2007.

Asset Management net revenues of $4.55 billion for 2008
    increased 1% compared with 2007. During 2008, assets under
    management decreased $89 billion to $779 billion, due
    to $123 billion of market depreciation, primarily in equity
    assets, partially offset by $34 billion of net inflows. Net
    inflows reflected inflows in money market, fixed income and
    alternative investment assets, partially offset by outflows in
    equity assets.

90

Table of Contents   

Securities Services net revenues of $3.42 billion for 2008
    increased 26% compared with 2007, reflecting the impact of
    changes in the composition of securities lending customer
    balances, as well as higher total average customer balances.

Operating expenses of $4.94 billion for 2008 decreased 8%
    compared with 2007, due to decreased compensation and benefits
    expenses, resulting from lower levels of discretionary
    compensation.
     Pre-tax 
    earnings of $3.04 billion in 2008 increased 65% compared
    with 2007.

2007 versus 2006.   Net revenues in Asset
    Management and Securities Services of $7.21 billion for
    2007 increased 11% compared with 2006.

Asset Management net revenues of $4.49 billion for 2007
    increased 5% compared with 2006, reflecting a 29% increase in
    management and other fees, partially offset by significantly
    lower incentive fees. Incentive fees were $187 million for
    2007 compared with $962 million for 2006. During 2007,
    assets under management increased $192 billion, or 28%, to
    $868 billion, reflecting
     non-money 
    market net inflows of $73 billion
     (1) ,

    primarily in fixed income and equity assets, money market net
    inflows of $88 billion, and net market appreciation of
    $31 billion, reflecting appreciation in fixed income and
    equity assets, partially offset by depreciation in alternative
    investment assets.

Securities Services net revenues of $2.72 billion for 2007
    increased 25% compared with 2006, as our prime brokerage
    business continued to generate strong results, primarily
    reflecting significantly higher customer balances in securities
    lending and margin lending.

Operating expenses of $5.36 billion for 2007 increased 33%
    compared with 2006, primarily due to increased compensation and
    benefits expenses, resulting from higher discretionary
    compensation and growth in employment levels, and higher
    distribution fees (included in brokerage, clearing, exchange and
    distribution fees).
     Pre-tax 
    earnings of $1.84 billion in 2007 decreased 24% compared
    with 2006.

Geographic
    Data  

See Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for a summary of our total net revenues,
     pre-tax 
    earnings and net earnings by geographic region.

Off-Balance-Sheet 
    Arrangements  

We have various types of
     off-balance-sheet 
    arrangements that we enter into in the ordinary course of
    business. Our involvement in these arrangements can take many
    different forms, including purchasing or retaining residual and
    other interests in
     mortgage-backed 
    and other
     asset-backed 
    securitization vehicles; holding senior and subordinated debt,
    interests in limited and general partnerships, and preferred and
    common stock in other nonconsolidated vehicles; entering into
    interest rate, foreign currency, equity, commodity and credit
    derivatives, including total return swaps; entering into
    operating leases; and providing guarantees, indemnifications,
    loan commitments, letters of credit and representations and
    warranties.

We enter into these arrangements for a variety of business
    purposes, including the securitization of commercial and
    residential mortgages, home equity and auto loans, government
    and corporate bonds, and other types of financial assets. Other
    reasons for entering into these arrangements include
    underwriting client securitization transactions; providing
    secondary market liquidity; making investments in performing and
    nonperforming debt, equity, real estate and other assets;
    providing investors with
     credit-linked 
    and
     asset-repackaged 
    notes; and receiving or providing letters of credit to satisfy
    margin requirements and to facilitate the clearance and
    settlement process.

(1)  Includes

    $7 billion in net asset inflows in connection with our
    acquisition of Macquarie   IMM Investment Management.

91

Table of Contents   

We engage in transactions with variable interest entities (VIEs)
    and qualifying
     special-purpose 
    entities (QSPEs). Such vehicles are critical to the functioning
    of several significant investor markets, including the
     mortgage-backed 
    and other
     asset-backed 
    securities markets, since they offer investors access to
    specific cash flows and risks created through the securitization
    process. Our financial interests in, and derivative transactions
    with, such nonconsolidated entities are accounted for at fair
    value, in the same manner as our other financial instruments,
    except in cases where we apply the equity method of accounting.

We did not have
     off-balance-sheet 
    commitments to purchase or finance any CDOs held by structured
    investment vehicles as of November 2008 or
    November 2007.

In December 2007, the American Securitization Forum (ASF)
    issued the  Streamlined Foreclosure and Loss Avoidance
    Framework for Securitized Subprime Adjustable Rate Mortgage
    Loans  (ASF Framework). The ASF Framework provides guidance
    for servicers to streamline borrower evaluation procedures and
    to facilitate the use of foreclosure and loss prevention
    measures for securitized subprime residential mortgages that
    meet certain criteria. For certain eligible loans as defined in
    the ASF Framework, servicers may presume default is reasonably
    foreseeable and apply a
     fast-track 
    loan modification plan, under which the loan interest rate will
    be kept at the introductory rate for a period of five years
    following the upcoming reset date. Mortgage loan modifications
    of these eligible loans will not affect our accounting treatment
    for QSPEs that hold the subprime loans.

The following table sets forth where a discussion of
     off-balance-sheet 
    arrangements may be found in Part II, Items 7 and 8 of
    our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K: 

Type of Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangement 

Disclosure in our Annual Report on Form 10-K 

Retained interests or contingent interests in assets transferred
    by us to nonconsolidated entities

See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II,
    Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Leases, letters of credit, and loans and other commitments

See
        Contractual 
    Obligations and Commitments  below and Note 8 to the
    consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our
    Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Guarantees

See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II,
    Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Other obligations, including contingent obligations, arising out
    of variable interests we have in nonconsolidated entities

See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Part
    II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Derivative contracts

See
        Critical 
    Accounting Policies  above, and
        Risk 
    Management  and
        Derivatives  
    below and Notes 3 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements
    in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K.

In addition, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for a discussion of our consolidation policies.

92

Table of Contents   

Equity
    Capital  

The level and composition of our equity capital are principally
    determined by our consolidated regulatory capital requirements
    but may also be influenced by rating agency guidelines,
    subsidiary capital requirements, the business environment,
    conditions in the financial markets and assessments of potential
    future losses due to extreme and adverse changes in our business
    and market environments. As of November 2008, our total
    shareholders  equity was $64.37 billion (consisting of
    common shareholders  equity of $47.90 billion and
    preferred stock of $16.47 billion) compared with total
    shareholders  equity of $42.80 billion as of
    November 2007 (consisting of common shareholders 
    equity of $39.70 billion and preferred stock of
    $3.10 billion). In addition to total shareholders 
    equity, we consider the $5.00 billion of junior
    subordinated debt issued to trusts (see discussion below) to be
    part of our equity capital, as it qualifies as capital for
    regulatory and certain rating agency purposes.

Consolidated
    Capital Requirements  

We are subject to regulatory capital requirements administered
    by the U.S. federal banking agencies. Our bank depository
    institution subsidiaries, including GS Bank USA, are subject to
    similar capital guidelines. Under the Federal Reserve
    Board s capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory
    framework for prompt corrective action (PCA) that is applicable
    to GS Bank USA, Goldman Sachs and its bank depository
    institution subsidiaries must meet specific capital guidelines
    that involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and
    certain
     off-balance-sheet 
    items as calculated under regulatory reporting practices.
    Goldman Sachs and its bank depository institution
    subsidiaries  capital amounts, as well as GS Bank
    USA s PCA classification, are also subject to qualitative
    judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings
    and other factors. We anticipate reporting capital ratios as
    follows:

Before we became a bank holding company, we were subject to
    capital guidelines by the SEC as a Consolidated Supervised
    Entity (CSE) that were generally consistent with those set out
    in the Revised Framework for the International Convergence of
    Capital Measurement and Capital Standards issued by the Basel
    Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel II). We currently
    compute and report our firmwide capital ratios in accordance
    with the Basel II requirements as applicable to us when we were
    regulated as a CSE for the purpose of assessing the adequacy of
    our capital. Under the Basel II framework as it applied to us
    when we were regulated as a CSE, we evaluate our Tier 1
    Capital and Total Allowable Capital as a percentage of RWAs. As
    of November 2008, our Total Capital Ratio (Total Allowable
    Capital as a percentage of RWAs) was 18.9% and our Tier 1
    Ratio (Tier 1 Capital as a percentage of RWAs) was 15.6%,
    in each case calculated under the Basel II framework as it
    applied to us when we were regulated as a CSE. See
       Consolidated Capital Ratios  below for
    further information. We expect to continue to report to
    investors for a period of time our Basel II capital ratios
    as applicable to us when we were regulated as a CSE.

The regulatory capital guidelines currently applicable to bank
    holding companies are based on the Capital Accord of the Basel
    Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel I), with Basel II to be
    phased in over time. We are currently working with the Federal
    Reserve Board to put in place the appropriate reporting and
    compliance mechanisms and methodologies to allow reporting of
    the Basel I capital ratios as of the end of March 2009.

In addition, we are currently working to implement the Basel II
    framework as applicable to us as a bank holding company (as
    opposed to as a CSE). U.S. banking regulators have
    incorporated the Basel II framework into the existing
     risk-based 
    capital requirements by requiring that internationally active
    banking organizations, such as Group Inc., transition to Basel
    II over the next several years.

The Federal Reserve Board also has established minimum leverage
    ratio guidelines. We were not subject to these guidelines before
    becoming a bank holding company and, accordingly, we are
    currently working with the Federal Reserve Board to finalize our
    methodology for calculating this ratio.

93

Table of Contents   

The Tier 1 leverage ratio is defined as Tier 1 capital
    (as applicable to us as a bank holding company) divided by
    adjusted average total assets (which includes adjustments for
    disallowed goodwill and certain intangible assets). The minimum
    Tier 1 leverage ratio is 3% for bank holding companies that
    have received the highest supervisory rating under Federal
    Reserve Board guidelines or that have implemented the Federal
    Reserve Board s
     risk-based 
    capital measure for market risk. Other bank holding companies
    must have a minimum leverage ratio of 4%. Bank holding companies
    may be expected to maintain ratios well above the minimum
    levels, depending upon their particular condition, risk profile
    and growth plans. As of November 2008, our estimated
    Tier 1 leverage ratio was 6.1%. This ratio represents a
    preliminary estimate and may be revised in subsequent filings as
    we continue to work with the Federal Reserve Board to finalize
    the methodology for the calculation.

Consolidated
    Capital Ratios   

The following table sets forth additional information on our
    capital ratios as of November 2008 calculated in the same
    manner (generally consistent with Basel II) as when the
    firm was regulated by the SEC as a CSE:

(1)   

Principally included investments in
    regulated insurance entities and certain financial service
    entities (50% was deducted from both Tier 1 Capital and
    Total Allowable Capital).

(2)   

Substantially all of our existing
    subordinated debt qualified as Total Allowable Capital for CSE
    purposes.

Our RWAs are driven by the amount of market risk, credit risk
    and operational risk associated with our business activities in
    a manner generally consistent with methodologies set out in
    Basel II. The methodologies used to compute RWAs for each of
    market risk, credit risk and operational risk are closely
    aligned with our risk management practices. See
        Market 
    Risk  and    Credit Risk  below for a
    discussion of how we manage risks in our trading and principal
    investing businesses. Further details on the methodologies used
    to calculate RWAs are set forth below.

94

Table of Contents   

Risk-Weighted 
    Assets for Market Risk   

For positions captured in VaR, RWAs are calculated using VaR and
    other
     model-based 
    measures, including requirements for incremental default risk
    and other event risks. VaR is the potential loss in value of
    trading positions due to adverse market movements over a defined
    time horizon with a specified confidence level. Market risk RWAs
    are calculated consistent with the specific conditions set out
    in the Basel II framework (based on VaR calibrated to a 99%
    confidence level, over a
     10-day 
    holding period, multiplied by a factor). Additional RWAs are
    calculated with respect to incremental default risk and other
    event risks, in a manner generally consistent with our internal
    risk management methodologies.

For positions not included in VaR because VaR is not the most
    appropriate measure of risk, we calculate RWAs based on
    alternative methodologies, including sensitivity analyses.

Risk-Weighted 
    Assets for Credit Risk   

RWAs for credit risk are calculated for on- and
    off-balance-sheet exposures that are not captured in our market
    risk RWAs, with the exception of OTC derivatives for which both
    market risk and credit risk RWAs are calculated. The
    calculations are consistent with the Advanced Internal Ratings
    Based (AIRB) approach and the Internal Models Method
    (IMM) of Basel II, and were based on Exposure at Default
    (EAD), which is an estimate of the amount that would be owed to
    us at the time of a default, multiplied by each
    counterparty s risk weight.

Under the Basel II AIRB approach, a counterparty s risk
    weight is generally derived from a combination of the
    Probability of Default (PD), the Loss Given Default (LGD) and
    the maturity of the trade or portfolio of trades, where:

PD is an estimate of the probability that an obligor will
    default over a
     one-year 
    horizon. PD is derived from the use of internally determined
    equivalents of public rating agency ratings.

LGD is an estimate of the economic loss rate if a default occurs
    during economic downturn conditions. LGD is determined based on
    industry data.

For OTC derivatives and funding trades (such as repurchase and
    reverse repurchase transactions), we use the Basel II IMM
    approach, which allows EAD to be calculated using
     model-based 
    measures to determine potential exposure, consistent with models
    and methodologies that we use for internal risk management
    purposes. For commitments, EAD is calculated as a percentage of
    the outstanding notional balance. For other credit exposures,
    EAD is generally the carrying value of the exposure.

Risk-Weighted 
    Assets for Operational Risk   

RWAs for operational risk are calculated using a
     risk-based 
    methodology consistent with the qualitative and quantitative
    criteria for the Advanced Measurement Approach (AMA), as defined
    in Basel II. The methodology incorporates internal loss events,
    relevant external loss events, results of scenario analyses and
    management s assessment of our business environment and
    internal controls. We estimate capital requirements for both
    expected and unexpected losses, seeking to capture the major
    drivers of operational risk over a
     one-year 
    time horizon, at a 99.9% confidence level. Operational risk
    capital is allocated among our businesses and is regularly
    reported to senior management and key risk and oversight
    committees.

Rating Agency
    Guidelines  

The credit rating agencies assign credit ratings to the
    obligations of Group Inc., which directly issues or guarantees
    substantially all of the firm s senior unsecured
    obligations. The level and composition of our equity capital are
    among the many factors considered in determining our credit
    ratings. Each agency has its own definition of eligible capital
    and methodology for evaluating capital

95

Table of Contents   

adequacy, and assessments are generally based on a combination
    of factors rather than a single calculation. See
        Liquidity 
    and Funding Risk   Credit Ratings  below for
    further information regarding our credit ratings.

Subsidiary
    Capital Requirements  

Many of our subsidiaries are subject to separate regulation and
    capital requirements in the
     U.S. and/or 
    elsewhere. GS Co. and Goldman Sachs Execution  
    Clearing, L.P. are registered
     U.S. broker-dealers 
    and futures commissions merchants, and are subject to regulatory
    capital requirements, including those imposed by the SEC, the
    Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Chicago Board of
    Trade, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (FINRA)
    and the National Futures Association.

Our depository institution subsidiary, GS Bank USA, a New York
    State-chartered bank and a member of the Federal Reserve System
    and the FDIC, is regulated by the Federal Reserve Board and the
    New York State Banking Department and is subject to minimum
    capital requirements that (subject to certain exceptions) are
    similar to those applicable to bank holding companies. GS Bank
    USA was formed in November 2008 through the merger of our
    existing Utah industrial bank (named GS Bank USA) into our New
    York limited purpose trust company, with the surviving company
    taking the name GS Bank USA. As of November 2007, GS Bank
    USA s predecessor was a wholly owned industrial bank
    regulated by the Utah Department of Financial Institutions, was
    a member of the FDIC and was subject to minimum capital
    requirements. We compute the capital ratios for GS Bank USA in
    accordance with the Basel I framework for purposes of assessing
    the adequacy of its capital. In order to be considered a
     well capitalized  depository institution under the
    Federal Reserve Board guidelines, GS Bank USA must maintain a
    Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6%, a total capital ratio
    of at least 10%, and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least
    5%. In connection with the November 2008 asset transfer
    described below, GS Bank USA agreed with the Federal
    Reserve Board to minimum capital ratios in excess of these
     well capitalized  levels. Accordingly, for a period
    of time, GS Bank USA is expected to maintain a Tier 1
    capital ratio of at least 8%, a total capital ratio of at least
    11% and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 6%. In
    November 2008, we contributed subsidiaries with an
    aggregate of $117.16 billion of assets into GS Bank
    USA (which brought total assets in GS Bank USA to
    $145.06 billion as of November 2008). As a result, we are
    currently working with the Federal Reserve Board to finalize our
    methodology for the Basel I calculations. As of November
    2008, under Basel I, GS Bank USA s estimated
    Tier 1 capital ratio was 8.9% and estimated total capital
    ratio was 11.6%. In addition, GS Bank USA s estimated
    Tier 1 leverage ratio was 9.1%.

Group Inc. has guaranteed the payment obligations of
    GS Co., GS Bank USA and GS Bank Europe, subject to certain
    exceptions. In November 2008, as noted above, we
    contributed subsidiaries, with an aggregate of
    $117.16 billion of assets, into GS Bank USA and Group Inc.
    agreed to guarantee certain losses, including
     credit-related 
    losses, relating to assets held by the contributed entities. In
    connection with this guarantee, Group Inc. also agreed to pledge
    to GS Bank USA certain collateral, including interests in
    subsidiaries and other illiquid assets.

GS Bank Europe, our regulated Irish bank, is subject to minimum
    capital requirements imposed by the Irish Financial Services
    Regulatory Authority. Several other subsidiaries of Goldman
    Sachs are regulated by securities, investment advisory, banking,
    insurance, and other regulators and authorities around the
    world. Goldman Sachs International (GSI), our regulated U.K.
     broker-dealer, 
    is subject to minimum capital requirements imposed by the
    Financial Services Authority (FSA). Goldman Sachs Japan Co.,
    Ltd., our regulated Japanese
     broker-dealer, 
    is subject to minimum capital requirements imposed by
    Japan s Financial Services Agency. As of November 2008
    and November 2007, these subsidiaries were in compliance
    with their local capital requirements.

As discussed above, many of our subsidiaries are subject to
    regulatory capital requirements in jurisdictions throughout the
    world. Subsidiaries not subject to separate regulation may hold
    capital to satisfy local tax guidelines, rating agency
    requirements (for entities with assigned credit ratings) or

96

Table of Contents   

internal policies, including policies concerning the minimum
    amount of capital a subsidiary should hold based on its
    underlying level of risk. See
        Liquidity 
    and Funding Risk   Conservative Liability
    Structure  below for a discussion of our potential
    inability to access funds from our subsidiaries.

Equity investments in subsidiaries are generally funded with
    parent company equity capital. As of November 2008, Group
    Inc. s equity investment in subsidiaries was
    $51.70 billion compared with its total shareholders 
    equity of $64.37 billion.

Our capital invested in
     non-U.S. subsidiaries 
    is generally exposed to foreign exchange risk, substantially all
    of which is managed through a combination of derivative
    contracts and
     non-U.S. denominated 
    debt. In addition, we generally manage the
     non-trading 
    exposure to foreign exchange risk that arises from transactions
    denominated in currencies other than the transacting
    entity s functional currency.

See Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding our regulated subsidiaries.

Equity Capital
    Management  

Our objective is to maintain a sufficient level and optimal
    composition of equity capital. We manage our capital through
    repurchases of our common stock, as permitted, and issuances of
    common and preferred stock, junior subordinated debt issued to
    trusts and other subordinated debt. We manage our capital
    requirements principally by setting limits on balance sheet
    assets
     and/or 
    limits on risk, in each case at both the consolidated and
    business unit levels. We attribute capital usage to each of our
    business units based upon our regulatory capital framework and
    manage the levels of usage based upon the balance sheet and risk
    limits established.

Share Repurchase Program.   Subject to the
    limitations of the U.S. Treasury s TARP Capital
    Purchase Program described below under
        Equity 
    Capital   Equity Capital Management  
    Preferred Stock,  we seek to use our share repurchase
    program to substantially offset increases in share count over
    time resulting from employee
     share-based 
    compensation. The repurchase program is effected primarily
    through regular
     open-market 
    purchases, the amounts and timing of which are determined
    primarily by our current and projected capital positions
    (i.e., comparisons of our desired level of capital to our
    actual level of capital) but which may also be influenced by
    general market conditions and the prevailing price and trading
    volumes of our common stock, in each case subject to the limit
    imposed under the U.S. Treasury s TARP Capital
    Purchase Program. See
        Equity 
    Capital   Equity Capital Management  
    Preferred Stock  below for information regarding
    restrictions on our ability to repurchase common stock.

The following table sets forth the level of share repurchases
    for the years ended November 2008 and November 2007:

As of November 2008, we were authorized to repurchase up to
    60.9 million additional shares of common stock pursuant to
    our repurchase program. See  Market for Registrant s
    Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases
    of Equity Securities  in Part II, Item 5 of our
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for additional information on our repurchase program.

Stock Offerings.   In September 2008, we
    completed a public offering of 46.7 million shares of
    common stock at $123.00 per share for proceeds of
    $5.75 billion.

97

Table of Contents   

In October 2008, we issued to Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and
    certain affiliates 50,000 shares of 10% Cumulative
    Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series G (Series G
    Preferred Stock), and a five-year warrant to purchase up to
    43.5 million shares of common stock at an exercise price of
    $115.00 per share, for aggregate proceeds of $5.00 billion.
    The allocated carrying values of the warrant and the
    Series G Preferred Stock on the date of issuance (based on
    their relative fair values) were $1.14 billion and
    $3.86 billion, respectively. The warrant is exercisable at
    any time until October 1, 2013 and the number of
    shares of common stock underlying the warrant and the exercise
    price are subject to adjustment for certain dilutive events.

In October 2008, under the U.S. Treasury s TARP
    Capital Purchase Program, we issued to the U.S. Treasury
    10.0 million shares of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual
    Preferred Stock, Series H (Series H Preferred Stock),
    and a
     10-year 
    warrant to purchase up to 12.2 million shares of common
    stock at an exercise price of $122.90 per share, for aggregate
    proceeds of $10.00 billion. The allocated carrying values
    of the warrant and the Series H Preferred Stock on the date
    of issuance (based on their relative fair values) were
    $490 million and $9.51 billion, respectively.
    Cumulative dividends on the Series H Preferred Stock are
    payable at 5% per annum through November 14, 2013 and
    at a rate of 9% per annum thereafter. The Series H
    Preferred Stock will be accreted to the redemption price of
    $10.00 billion over five years. The warrant is exercisable
    at any time until October 28, 2018 and the number of
    shares of common stock underlying the warrant and the exercise
    price are subject to adjustment for certain dilutive events. If,
    on or prior to December 31, 2009, we receive aggregate
    gross cash proceeds of at least $10 billion from sales of
    Tier 1 qualifying perpetual preferred stock or common
    stock, the number of shares of common stock issuable upon
    exercise of the warrant will be reduced by
     one-half  of
    the original number of shares of common stock.

Preferred Stock.   As of November 2008,
    Goldman Sachs had 10.2 million shares of perpetual
    preferred stock issued and outstanding as set forth in the
    following table:

Preferred Stock
    by Series  

Each share of
     non-cumulative 
    preferred stock issued and outstanding has a par value of $0.01,
    has a liquidation preference of $25,000, is represented by 1,000
    depositary shares and is redeemable at our option, subject to
    the approval of the Federal Reserve Board, at a redemption price
    equal to $25,000 plus declared and unpaid dividends.

Each share of Series G Preferred Stock issued and
    outstanding has a par value of $0.01, has a liquidation
    preference of $100,000 and is redeemable at our option, subject
    to the approval of the Federal Reserve Board, at a redemption
    price equal to $110,000 plus accrued and unpaid dividends.

Each share of Series H Preferred Stock issued and
    outstanding has a par value of $0.01, has a liquidation
    preference of $1,000 and is redeemable at our option, subject to
    the approval of the

98

Table of Contents   

Federal Reserve Board, at a redemption price equal to $1,000
    plus accrued and unpaid dividends, provided that through
    November 14, 2011 the Series H Preferred Stock is
    redeemable only in an amount up to the aggregate net cash
    proceeds received from sales of Tier 1 qualifying perpetual
    preferred stock or common stock, and only once such sales have
    resulted in aggregate gross proceeds of at least
    $2.5 billion.

All series of preferred stock are pari passu and have a
    preference over our common stock upon liquidation. Dividends on
    each series of preferred stock, if declared, are payable
    quarterly in arrears. Our ability to declare or pay dividends
    on, or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, our common stock
    is subject to certain restrictions in the event that we fail to
    pay or set aside full dividends on our preferred stock for the
    latest completed dividend period. In addition, pursuant to the
    U.S. Treasury s TARP Capital Purchase Program, until
    the earliest of October 28, 2011, the redemption of
    all of the Series H Preferred Stock or transfer by the
    U.S. Treasury of all of the Series H Preferred Stock
    to third parties, we must obtain the consent of the
    U.S. Treasury to raise our common stock dividend or to
    repurchase any shares of common stock or other preferred stock,
    with certain exceptions (including repurchases of our common
    stock under our share repurchase program to offset dilution from
     equity-based 
    compensation). For as long as the Series H Preferred Stock
    remains outstanding, due to the limitations pursuant to the U.S.
    Treasury s TARP Capital Purchase Program, we will
    repurchase our common stock through our share repurchase program
    only for the purpose of offsetting dilution from
     equity-based 
    compensation, to the extent permitted.

Junior Subordinated Debt Issued to Trusts in Connection with
    Normal Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital
    Securities.   In 2007, we issued $1.75 billion
    of fixed rate junior subordinated debt to Goldman Sachs Capital
    II and $500 million of floating rate junior subordinated
    debt to Goldman Sachs Capital III, Delaware statutory trusts
    that, in turn, issued $2.25 billion of guaranteed perpetual
    Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital Securities (APEX) to third
    parties and a de minimis amount of common securities to Goldman
    Sachs. The junior subordinated debt is included in
     Unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings  in the consolidated statements of financial
    condition. In connection with the APEX issuance, we entered into
    stock purchase contracts with Goldman Sachs Capital II and III
    under which we will be obligated to sell and these entities will
    be obligated to purchase $2.25 billion of perpetual
     non-cumulative 
    preferred stock that we will issue in the future. Goldman Sachs
    Capital II and III are required to remarket the junior
    subordinated debt in order to fund their purchase of the
    preferred stock, but in the event that a remarketing is
    unsuccessful, they will relinquish the subordinated debt to us
    in exchange for the preferred stock. Because of certain
    characteristics of the junior subordinated debt (and the
    associated APEX), including its
     long-term 
    nature, the future issuance of perpetual
     non-cumulative 
    preferred stock under the stock purchase contracts, our ability
    to defer payments due on the debt and the subordinated nature of
    the debt in our capital structure, it qualifies as Tier 1
    and Total Allowable Capital and is included as part of our
    equity capital.

Junior Subordinated Debt Issued to a Trust in Connection with
    Trust Preferred Securities.   We issued
    $2.84 billion of junior subordinated debentures in 2004 to
    Goldman Sachs Capital I, a Delaware statutory trust that, in
    turn, issued $2.75 billion of guaranteed preferred
    beneficial interests to third parties and $85 million of
    common beneficial interests to Goldman Sachs. The junior
    subordinated debentures are included in  Unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings  in the consolidated statements of financial
    condition. Because of certain characteristics of the junior
    subordinated debt (and the associated trust preferred
    securities), including its
     long-term 
    nature, our ability to defer coupon interest for up to ten
    consecutive
     semi-annual 
    periods and the subordinated nature of the debt in our capital
    structure, it qualifies as Tier 1 and Total Allowable
    Capital and is included as part of our equity capital.

Subordinated Debt.   In addition to junior
    subordinated debt issued to trusts, we had other subordinated
    debt outstanding of $14.17 billion as of
    November 2008. Although not part of our shareholders 
    equity, substantially all of our subordinated debt qualifies as
    Total Allowable Capital.

99

Table of Contents   

Other Capital
    Ratios and Metrics  

The following table sets forth information on our assets,
    shareholders  equity, leverage ratios and book value per
    common share:

(1)   

Adjusted assets excludes
     (i) low-risk 
    collateralized assets generally associated with our matched book
    and securities lending businesses and federal funds sold,
    (ii) cash and securities we segregate for regulatory and
    other purposes and (iii) goodwill and identifiable
    intangible assets, excluding power contracts. We do not deduct
    identifiable intangible assets associated with power contracts
    from total assets in order to be consistent with the calculation
    of tangible equity capital and the adjusted leverage ratio (see
    footnote 2 below).

The following table sets forth the reconciliation of total
    assets to adjusted assets:

(2)   

Tangible equity capital equals
    total shareholders  equity and junior subordinated debt
    issued to trusts less goodwill and identifiable intangible
    assets, excluding power contracts. We do not deduct identifiable
    intangible assets associated with power contracts from total
    shareholders  equity because, unlike other intangible
    assets, less than 50% of these assets are supported by common
    shareholders  equity. We consider junior subordinated debt
    issued to trusts to be a component of our tangible equity
    capital base due to certain characteristics of the debt,
    including its
     long-term 
    nature, our ability to defer payments due on the debt and the
    subordinated nature of the debt in our capital structure.

The following table sets forth the reconciliation of total
    shareholders  equity to tangible equity capital:

100

Table of Contents   

(3)   

The leverage ratio equals total
    assets divided by total shareholders  equity. This ratio is
    different from the Tier 1 leverage ratios included in
        Equity 
    Capital   Consolidated Capital Requirements  and
       Equity Capital   Subsidiary Capital
    Requirements  above.

(4)   

The adjusted leverage ratio equals
    adjusted assets divided by tangible equity capital. We believe
    that the adjusted leverage ratio is a more meaningful measure of
    our capital adequacy than the leverage ratio because it excludes
    certain
     low-risk 
    collateralized assets that are generally supported with little
    or no capital and reflects the tangible equity capital deployed
    in our businesses.

(5)   

The debt to equity ratio equals
    unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings divided by total shareholders  equity.

(6)   

Tangible common shareholders 
    equity equals total shareholders  equity less preferred
    stock, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, excluding
    power contracts. We do not deduct identifiable intangible assets
    associated with power contracts from total shareholders 
    equity because, unlike other intangible assets, less than 50% of
    these assets are supported by common shareholders  equity.

The following table sets forth the reconciliation of total
    shareholders  equity to tangible common shareholders 
    equity:

(7)   

Book value per common share is
    based on common shares outstanding, including restricted stock
    units granted to employees with no future service requirements,
    of 485.4 million and 439.0 million as of
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively.

(8)   

Tangible book value per common
    share is computed by dividing tangible common shareholders 
    equity by the number of common shares outstanding, including
    restricted stock units granted to employees with no future
    service requirements.

101

Table of Contents   

Contractual
    Obligations and Commitments  

Goldman Sachs has contractual obligations to make future
    payments related to our unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings, secured
     long-term 
    financings,
     long-term 
    noncancelable lease agreements and purchase obligations and has
    commitments under a variety of commercial arrangements.

The following table sets forth our contractual obligations by
    fiscal maturity date as of November 2008:

Contractual
    Obligations 
       (in
    millions)

(1)   

Obligations maturing within one
    year of our financial statement date or redeemable within one
    year of our financial statement date at the option of the holder
    are excluded from this table and are treated as
     short-term 
    obligations. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding our secured financings.

(2)   

Obligations that are repayable
    prior to maturity at the option of Goldman Sachs are reflected
    at their contractual maturity dates. Obligations that are
    redeemable prior to maturity at the option of the holder are
    reflected at the dates such options become exercisable.

(3)   

Includes $17.45 billion
    accounted for at fair value under SFAS No. 155 or SFAS
    No. 159, primarily consisting of hybrid financial
    instruments and prepaid physical commodity transactions.

(4)   

These obligations are reported
    within  Other secured financings  in the consolidated
    statements of financial condition and include $7.85 billion
    accounted for at fair value under SFAS No. 159.

(5)   

Represents estimated future
    interest payments related to unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings and secured
     long-term 
    financings based on applicable interest rates as of
    November 2008. Includes stated coupons, if any, on
    structured notes.

(6)   

Represents estimated undiscounted
    payments related to future benefits and unpaid claims arising
    from policies associated with our insurance activities,
    excluding separate accounts and estimated recoveries under
    reinsurance contracts.

As of November 2008, our unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings were $168.22 billion, with maturities extending
    to 2043, and consisted principally of senior borrowings. See
    Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding our unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings.

As of November 2008, our future minimum rental payments,
    net of minimum sublease rentals, under noncancelable leases were
    $3.49 billion. These lease commitments, principally for
    office space, expire on various dates through 2069. Certain
    agreements are subject to periodic escalation provisions for
    increases in real estate taxes and other charges. See
    Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding our leases.

Our occupancy expenses include costs associated with office
    space held in excess of our current requirements. This excess
    space, the cost of which is charged to earnings as incurred, is
    being held for potential growth or to replace currently occupied
    space that we may exit in the future. We regularly evaluate our
    current and future space capacity in relation to current and
    projected staffing levels. In 2008, we incurred exit costs of
    $80 million related to our office space (included in

102

Table of Contents   

Occupancy  and  Depreciation and
    Amortization  in the consolidated statement of earnings).
    We may incur exit costs in the future to the extent we
    (i) reduce our space capacity or (ii) commit to, or
    occupy, new properties in the locations in which we operate and,
    consequently, dispose of existing space that had been held for
    potential growth. These exit costs may be material to our
    results of operations in a given period.

As of November 2008, included in purchase obligations was
    $483 million of
     construction-related 
    obligations. Our
     construction-related 
    obligations include commitments of $388 million related to
    our new headquarters in New York City, which is expected to cost
    between $2.1 billion and $2.3 billion. We have
    partially financed this construction project with
    $1.65 billion of
     tax-exempt 
    Liberty Bonds.

Due to the uncertainty of the timing and amounts that will
    ultimately be paid, our liability for unrecognized tax benefits
    has been excluded from the above contractual obligations table.
    See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information on FIN 48.

The following table sets forth our commitments as of
    November 2008:

Commitments 
       (in
    millions)

(1)   

Commitments to extend credit are
    net of amounts syndicated to third parties.

Our commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend to
    counterparties that have fixed termination dates and are
    contingent on the satisfaction of all conditions to borrowing
    set forth in the contract. In connection with our lending
    activities, we had outstanding commitments to extend credit of
    $41.04 billion as of November 2008. Since these
    commitments may expire unused or be reduced or cancelled at the
    counterparty s request, the total commitment amount does
    not necessarily reflect the actual future cash flow
    requirements. Our commercial lending commitments are generally
    extended in connection with contingent acquisition financing and
    other types of corporate lending as well as commercial real
    estate financing. We may seek to reduce our credit risk on these
    commitments by syndicating all or substantial portions of
    commitments to other investors in the future. In addition,

103

Table of Contents   

commitments that are extended for contingent acquisition
    financing are often intended to be
     short-term 
    in nature, as borrowers often seek to replace them with other
    funding sources.

Included within
     non-investment-grade 
    commitments as of November 2008 was $2.07 billion of
    exposure to leveraged lending capital market transactions,
    $164 million related to commercial real estate transactions
    and $7.09 billion arising from other unfunded credit
    facilities. Including funded loans, our total exposure to
    leveraged lending capital market transactions was
    $7.97 billion as of November 2008.

The following table sets forth our exposure to leveraged lending
    capital market transactions by geographic region:

Leveraged Lending
    Capital Market Exposure by Geographic Region 
       (in
    millions)

(1)   

Substantially all relates to the
    U.S.

(2)   

EMEA (Europe, Middle East and
    Africa).

Substantially all of the commitments provided under the William
    Street credit extension program are to
     investment-grade 
    corporate borrowers. Commitments under the program are
    principally extended by William Street Commitment Corporation
    (Commitment Corp.), a consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of GS
    Bank USA, and also by William Street Credit Corporation, GS Bank
    USA or Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. The commitments
    extended by Commitment Corp. are supported, in part, by funding
    raised by William Street Funding Corporation (Funding Corp.),
    another consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of GS Bank USA. The
    assets and liabilities of Commitment Corp. and Funding Corp. are
    legally separated from other assets and liabilities of the firm.
    With respect to most of the William Street commitments, SMFG
    provides us with credit loss protection that is generally
    limited to 95% of the first loss we realize on approved loan
    commitments, up to a maximum of $1.00 billion. In addition,
    subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, upon our
    request, SMFG will provide protection for 70% of additional
    losses on such commitments, up to a maximum of
    $1.13 billion, of which $375 million of protection has
    been provided as of November 2008. We also use other
    financial instruments to mitigate credit risks related to
    certain William Street commitments not covered by SMFG.

Our commitments to extend credit also include financing for the
    warehousing of financial assets. These arrangements are secured
    by the warehoused assets, primarily consisting of commercial
    mortgages as of November 2008.

See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding our commitments, contingencies
    and guarantees.

104

Table of Contents   

Risk
    Management  

Management believes that effective risk management is of primary
    importance to the success of Goldman Sachs. Accordingly, we have
    a comprehensive risk management process to monitor, evaluate and
    manage the principal risks we assume in conducting our
    activities. These risks include market, credit, liquidity,
    operational, legal and reputational exposures.

Risk Management
    Structure  

We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a
    variety of separate but complementary financial, credit,
    operational, compliance and legal reporting systems. In
    addition, a number of committees are responsible for monitoring
    risk exposures and for general oversight of our risk management
    process, as described further below. These committees (including
    their subcommittees), meet regularly and consist of senior
    members of both our revenue-producing units and departments that
    are independent of our revenue-producing units.

Segregation of duties and management oversight are fundamental
    elements of our risk management process. In addition to the
    committees described below, functions that are independent of
    the revenue-producing units, such as Compliance, Finance, Legal,
    Management Controls (Internal Audit) and Operations, perform
    risk management functions, which include monitoring, analyzing
    and evaluating risk.

Management Committee.     All risk control
    functions ultimately report to our Management Committee. Through
    both direct and delegated authority, the Management Committee
    approves all of our operating activities and trading risk
    parameters.

Risk Committees.   The Firmwide Risk Committee
    reviews the activities of existing trading businesses, approves
    new businesses and products, approves firmwide market risk
    limits, reviews business unit market risk limits, approves
    market risk limits for selected sovereign markets and business
    units, approves sovereign credit risk limits and credit risk
    limits by ratings group, and reviews scenario analyses based on
    abnormal or  catastrophic  market movements.

The Securities Divisional Risk Committee sets market risk limits
    for our trading activities subject to overall firmwide risk
    limits, based on a number of measures, including VaR, stress
    tests and scenario analyses.

Business unit risk limits are established by the appropriate
    risk committee and may be further allocated by the business unit
    managers to individual trading desks. Trading desk managers have
    the first line of responsibility for managing risk within
    prescribed limits. These managers have
     in-depth 
    knowledge of the primary sources of risk in their respective
    markets and the instruments available to hedge their exposures.

Market risk limits are monitored by the Finance Division and are
    reviewed regularly by the appropriate risk committee. Limit
    violations are reported to the appropriate risk committee and
    business unit managers and addressed, as necessary. Credit risk
    limits are also monitored by the Finance Division and reviewed
    by the appropriate risk committee.

The Asset Management Divisional Risk Committee oversees various
    risk, valuation and credit issues related to our asset
    management business.

Business Practices Committee.   The Business
    Practices Committee assists senior management in its oversight
    of compliance and operational risks and related reputational
    concerns, seeks to ensure the consistency of our policies,
    practices and procedures with our Business Principles, and makes
    recommendations on ways to mitigate potential risks.

105

Table of Contents   

Firmwide Capital Committee.   The Firmwide
    Capital Committee reviews and approves transactions involving
    commitments of our capital. Such capital commitments include,
    but are not limited to, extensions of credit, alternative
    liquidity commitments, certain bond underwritings and certain
    distressed debt and principal finance activities. The Firmwide
    Capital Committee is also responsible for establishing business
    and reputational standards for capital commitments and seeking
    to ensure that they are maintained on a global basis.

Commitments Committee.   The Commitments
    Committee reviews and approves underwriting and distribution
    activities, primarily with respect to offerings of equity and
     equity-related 
    securities, and sets and maintains policies and procedures
    designed to ensure that legal, reputational, regulatory and
    business standards are maintained in conjunction with these
    activities. In addition to reviewing specific transactions, the
    Commitments Committee periodically conducts strategic reviews of
    industry sectors and products and establishes policies in
    connection with transaction practices.

Credit Policy Committee.   The Credit Policy
    Committee establishes and reviews broad credit policies and
    parameters that are implemented by the Credit Department.

Finance Committee.   The Finance Committee
    establishes and oversees our liquidity policies, sets certain
    inventory position limits and has oversight responsibility for
    liquidity risk, the size and composition of our balance sheet
    and capital base, and our credit ratings. The Finance Committee
    regularly reviews our funding position and capitalization and
    makes adjustments in light of current events, risks and
    exposures.

New Products Committee.   The New Products
    Committee, under the oversight of the Firmwide Risk Committee,
    is responsible for reviewing and approving new products and
    businesses globally.

Operational Risk Committee.   The Operational
    Risk Committee provides oversight of the ongoing development and
    implementation of our operational risk policies, framework and
    methodologies, and monitors the effectiveness of operational
    risk management.

Structured Products Committee.   The Structured
    Products Committee reviews and approves structured product
    transactions entered into with our clients that raise legal,
    regulatory, tax or accounting issues or present reputational
    risk to Goldman Sachs.

Market
    Risk  

The potential for changes in the market value of our trading and
    investing positions is referred to as market risk. Such
    positions result from
     market-making, 
    proprietary trading, underwriting, specialist and investing
    activities. Substantially all of our inventory positions are
     marked-to-market 
    on a daily basis and changes are recorded in net revenues.

Categories of market risk include exposures to interest rates,
    equity prices, currency rates and commodity prices. A
    description of each market risk category is set forth below:

Interest rate risks primarily result from exposures to changes
    in the level, slope and curvature of the yield curve, the
    volatility of interest rates, mortgage prepayment speeds and
    credit spreads.

Equity price risks result from exposures to changes in prices
    and volatilities of individual equities, equity baskets and
    equity indices.

Currency rate risks result from exposures to changes in spot
    prices, forward prices and volatilities of currency rates.

Commodity price risks result from exposures to changes in spot
    prices, forward prices and volatilities of commodities, such as
    electricity, natural gas, crude oil, petroleum products, and
    precious and base metals.

106

Table of Contents   

We seek to manage these risks by diversifying exposures,
    controlling position sizes and establishing economic hedges in
    related securities or derivatives. For example, we may seek to
    hedge a portfolio of common stocks by taking an offsetting
    position in a related
     equity-index 
    futures contract. The ability to manage an exposure may,
    however, be limited by adverse changes in the liquidity of the
    security or the related hedge instrument and in the correlation
    of price movements between the security and related hedge
    instrument.

In addition to applying business judgment, senior management
    uses a number of quantitative tools to manage our exposure to
    market risk for  Trading assets, at fair value  and
     Trading liabilities, at fair value  in the
    consolidated statements of financial condition. These tools
    include:

risk limits based on a summary measure of market risk exposure
    referred to as VaR;

scenario analyses, stress tests and other analytical tools that
    measure the potential effects on our trading net revenues of
    various market events, including, but not limited to, a large
    widening of credit spreads, a substantial decline in equity
    markets and significant moves in selected emerging markets; and

inventory position limits for selected business units.

VaR   

VaR is the potential loss in value of trading positions due to
    adverse market movements over a defined time horizon with a
    specified confidence level.

For the VaR numbers reported below, a
     one-day  time
    horizon and a 95% confidence level were used. This means that
    there is a 1 in 20 chance that daily trading net revenues will
    fall below the expected daily trading net revenues by an amount
    at least as large as the reported VaR. Thus, shortfalls from
    expected trading net revenues on a single trading day greater
    than the reported VaR would be anticipated to occur, on average,
    about once a month. Shortfalls on a single day can exceed
    reported VaR by significant amounts. Shortfalls can also occur
    more frequently or accumulate over a longer time horizon such as
    a number of consecutive trading days.

The modeling of the risk characteristics of our trading
    positions involves a number of assumptions and approximations.
    While we believe that these assumptions and approximations are
    reasonable, there is no standard methodology for estimating VaR,
    and different assumptions
     and/or 
    approximations could produce materially different VaR estimates.

We use historical data to estimate our VaR and, to better
    reflect current asset volatilities, we generally weight
    historical data to give greater importance to more recent
    observations. Given its reliance on historical data, VaR is most
    effective in estimating risk exposures in markets in which there
    are no sudden fundamental changes or shifts in market
    conditions. An inherent limitation of VaR is that the
    distribution of past changes in market risk factors may not
    produce accurate predictions of future market risk. Different
    VaR methodologies and distributional assumptions could produce a
    materially different VaR. Moreover, VaR calculated for a
     one-day  time
    horizon does not fully capture the market risk of positions that
    cannot be liquidated or offset with hedges within one day.

107

Table of Contents   

The following tables set forth the daily VaR:

Average Daily VaR
        (1) 

       (in
    millions)

(1)   

Certain portfolios and individual
    positions are not included in VaR, where VaR is not the most
    appropriate measure of risk (e.g., due to transfer
    restrictions
     and/or 
    illiquidity). See
        Other 
    Market Risk Measures  below.

(2)   

Equals the difference between total
    VaR and the sum of the VaRs for the four risk categories. This
    effect arises because the four market risk categories are not
    perfectly correlated.

Our average daily VaR increased to $180 million in 2008
    from $138 million in 2007, principally due to increases in
    the interest rate, commodity price and currency rate categories,
    partially offset by a decrease in the equity price category. The
    increase in interest rates was primarily due to higher levels of
    volatility and wider spreads, partially offset by position
    reductions, and the increases in commodity prices and currency
    rates were primarily due to higher levels of volatility. The
    decrease in equity prices was principally due to position
    reductions, partially offset by higher levels of volatility.

Our average daily VaR increased to $138 million in 2007
    from $101 million in 2006. The increase was primarily due
    to higher levels of exposure and volatility in interest rates
    and equity prices.

VaR excludes the impact of changes in counterparty and our own
    credit spreads on derivatives as well as changes in our own
    credit spreads on unsecured borrowings for which the fair value
    option was elected. The estimated sensitivity of our net
    revenues to a one basis point increase in credit spreads
    (counterparty and our own) on derivatives was $1 million as
    of November 2008. In addition, the estimated sensitivity of
    our net revenues to a one basis point increase in our own credit
    spreads on unsecured borrowings for which the fair value option
    was elected was $1 million (including hedges) as of
    November 2008.

Daily VaR
        (1) 

       (in
    millions)

(1)   

Certain portfolios and individual
    positions are not included in VaR, where VaR is not the most
    appropriate measure of risk (e.g., due to transfer
    restrictions
     and/or 
    illiquidity). See
        Other 
    Market Risk Measures  below.

(2)   

Equals the difference between total
    VaR and the sum of the VaRs for the four risk categories. This
    effect arises because the four market risk categories are not
    perfectly correlated.

108

Table of Contents   

Our daily VaR increased to $244 million as of
    November 2008 from $134 million as of
    November 2007, primarily due to an increase in the interest
    rate category and a reduction in the diversification benefit
    across risk categories, partially offset by a decrease in the
    equity price category. The increase in interest rates was
    principally due to higher levels of volatility and wider
    spreads, partially offset by position reductions. The decrease
    in equity prices was primarily due to position reductions,
    partially offset by higher levels of volatility.

The following chart presents our daily VaR during 2008:

Daily VaR 

($ in millions)

109

Table of Contents   

Trading Net
    Revenues Distribution   

The following chart sets forth the frequency distribution of our
    daily trading net revenues for substantially all inventory
    positions included in VaR for the year ended November 2008:

Daily Trading Net
    Revenues 

($ in millions)

As part of our overall risk control process, daily trading net
    revenues are compared with VaR calculated as of the end of the
    prior business day. Trading losses incurred on a single day
    exceeded our 95%
     one-day  VaR
    on 13 and 10 occasions during 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Other Market
    Risk Measures   

Certain portfolios and individual positions are not included in
    VaR, where VaR is not the most appropriate measure of risk
    (e.g., due to transfer restrictions
     and/or 
    illiquidity). The market risk related to our investment in the
    ordinary shares of ICBC, excluding interests held by investment
    funds managed by Goldman Sachs, is measured by estimating the
    potential reduction in net revenues associated with a 10%
    decline in the ICBC ordinary share price. The market risk
    related to the remaining positions is measured by estimating the
    potential reduction in net revenues associated with a 10%
    decline in asset values.

The sensitivity analyses for equity and debt positions in our
    trading portfolio and equity, debt (primarily mezzanine
    instruments) and real estate positions in our
     non-trading 
    portfolio are measured by the impact of a decline in the asset
    values (including the impact of leverage in the underlying
    investments for real estate positions in our
     non-trading 
    portfolio) of such positions. The fair value of the underlying
    positions may be impacted by factors such as transactions in
    similar instruments, completed or pending
     third-party 
    transactions in the underlying investment or comparable
    entities, subsequent rounds of financing, recapitalizations and
    other transactions across the capital structure, offerings in
    the equity or debt capital markets, and changes in financial
    ratios or cash flows.

110

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth market risk for positions not
    included in VaR. These measures do not reflect diversification
    benefits across asset categories and, given the differing
    likelihood of the potential declines in asset categories, these
    measures have not been aggregated:

(1)   

In addition to the positions in
    these portfolios, which are accounted for at fair value, we make
    investments accounted for under the equity method and we also
    make direct investments in real estate, both of which are
    included in  Other assets  in the consolidated
    statements of financial condition. Direct investments in real
    estate are accounted for at cost less accumulated depreciation.
    See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for information on  Other assets. 

(2)   

Relates to private and restricted
    public equity securities held within the FICC and Equities
    components of our Trading and Principal Investments segment.

(3)   

Relates to acquired portfolios of
    distressed loans (primarily backed by commercial and residential
    real estate collateral), bank loans and bridge loans, and loans
    backed by commercial real estate and held within the FICC
    component of our Trading and Principal Investments segment.

(4)   

Primarily relates to interests in
    our merchant banking funds that invest in corporate equities.

(5)   

Primarily relates to interests in
    our merchant banking funds that invest in corporate mezzanine
    debt instruments.

(6)   

Primarily relates to interests in
    our merchant banking funds that invest in real estate. Such
    funds typically employ leverage as part of the investment
    strategy. This sensitivity measure is based on our percentage
    ownership of the underlying asset values in the funds and
    unfunded commitments to the funds.

The decrease in our 10% sensitivity measures as of
    November 2008 from November 2007 for equity and debt
    positions in our trading portfolio was due to dispositions and a
    decrease in the fair value of the portfolio, partially offset by
    new investments. The increase in our 10% sensitivity measures as
    of November 2008 from November 2007 for our
     non-trading 
    portfolio (excluding ICBC) was due to new investments, partially
    offset by a decrease in the fair value of the portfolio.

In addition to the positions included in VaR and the other risk
    measures described above, as of November 2008, we held
    approximately $10.39 billion of financial instruments in
    our bank and insurance subsidiaries, primarily consisting of
    $3.08 billion of U.S. government, federal agency and
    sovereign obligations, $2.87 billion of corporate debt
    securities and other debt obligations, $2.86 billion of
    money market instruments, and $1.22 billion of mortgage and
    other
     asset-backed 
    loans and securities. As of November 2007, we held
    approximately $10.58 billion of financial instruments in
    our bank and insurance subsidiaries, primarily consisting of
    $4.70 billion of mortgage and other
     asset-backed 
    loans and securities, $2.93 billion of corporate debt
    securities and other debt obligations and $2.77 billion of
    U.S. government, federal agency and sovereign obligations.
    In addition, as of November 2008 and November 2007, we
    held commitments and loans under the William Street credit
    extension program. See
        Contractual 
    Obligations and Commitments   Commitments  above
    for information on our William Street program.

111

Table of Contents   

Credit
    Risk  

Credit risk represents the loss that we would incur if a
    counterparty or an issuer of securities or other instruments we
    hold fails to perform under its contractual obligations to us,
    or upon a deterioration in the credit quality of third parties
    whose securities or other instruments, including OTC
    derivatives, we hold. Our exposure to credit risk principally
    arises through our trading, investing and financing activities.
    To reduce our credit exposures, we seek to enter into netting
    agreements with counterparties that permit us to offset
    receivables and payables with such counterparties. In addition,
    we attempt to further reduce credit risk with certain
    counterparties by (i) entering into agreements that enable
    us to obtain collateral from a counterparty on an upfront or
    contingent basis, (ii) seeking
     third-party 
    guarantees of the counterparty s obligations,
     and/or 
    (iii) transferring our credit risk to third parties using
    credit derivatives
     and/or  other
    structures and techniques.

To measure and manage our credit exposures, we use a variety of
    tools, including credit limits referenced to both current
    exposure and potential exposure. Potential exposure is an
    estimate of exposure, within a specified confidence level, that
    could be outstanding over the life of a transaction based on
    market movements. In addition, as part of our market risk
    management process, for positions measured by changes in credit
    spreads, we use VaR and other sensitivity measures. To
    supplement our primary credit exposure measures, we also use
    scenario analyses, such as credit spread widening scenarios,
    stress tests and other quantitative tools.

Our global credit management systems monitor credit exposure to
    individual counterparties and on an aggregate basis to
    counterparties and their affiliates. These systems also provide
    management, including the Firmwide Risk and Credit Policy
    Committees, with information regarding credit risk by product,
    industry sector, country and region.

While our activities expose us to many different industries and
    counterparties, we routinely execute a high volume of
    transactions with counterparties in the financial services
    industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks and
    investment funds, resulting in significant credit concentration
    with respect to this industry. In the ordinary course of
    business, we may also be subject to a concentration of credit
    risk to a particular counterparty, borrower or issuer.

As of November 2008 and November 2007, we held
    $53.98 billion (6% of total assets) and $45.75 billion
    (4% of total assets), respectively, of U.S. government and
    federal agency obligations included in  Trading assets, at
    fair value  and  Cash and securities segregated for
    regulatory and other purposes  in the consolidated
    statements of financial condition. As of November 2008 and
    November 2007, we held $21.13 billion (2% of total
    assets) and $31.65 billion (3% of total assets),
    respectively, of other sovereign obligations, principally
    consisting of securities issued by the governments of Japan and
    the United Kingdom. In addition, as of November 2008 and
    November 2007, $126.27 billion and
    $144.92 billion of our securities purchased under
    agreements to resell and securities borrowed (including those in
     Cash and securities segregated for regulatory and other
    purposes ), respectively, were collateralized by
    U.S. government and federal agency obligations. As of
    November 2008 and November 2007, $65.37 billion
    and $41.26 billion of our securities purchased under
    agreements to resell and securities borrowed, respectively, were
    collateralized by other sovereign obligations. As of
    November 2008 and November 2007, we did not have
    credit exposure to any other counterparty that exceeded 2% of
    our total assets. However, over the past several years, the
    amount and duration of our credit exposures with respect to OTC
    derivatives has been increasing, due to, among other factors,
    the growth of our OTC derivative activities and market evolution
    toward longer-dated transactions. A further discussion of our
    derivative activities follows below.

112

Table of Contents   

Derivatives  

Derivative contracts are instruments, such as futures, forwards,
    swaps or option contracts, that derive their value from
    underlying assets, indices, reference rates or a combination of
    these factors. Derivative instruments may be privately
    negotiated contracts, which are often referred to as OTC
    derivatives, or they may be listed and traded on an exchange.

Substantially all of our derivative transactions are entered
    into to facilitate client transactions, to take proprietary
    positions or as a means of risk management. In addition to
    derivative transactions entered into for trading purposes, we
    enter into derivative contracts to manage currency exposure on
    our net investment in
     non-U.S. operations 
    and to manage the interest rate and currency exposure on our
     long-term 
    borrowings and certain
     short-term 
    borrowings.

Derivatives are used in many of our businesses, and we believe
    that the associated market risk can only be understood relative
    to all of the underlying assets or risks being hedged, or as
    part of a broader trading strategy. Accordingly, the market risk
    of derivative positions is managed together with our
    nonderivative positions.

The fair value of our derivative contracts is reflected net of
    cash paid or received pursuant to credit support agreements and
    is reported on a
     net-by-counterparty 
    basis in our consolidated statements of financial condition when
    we believe a legal right of setoff exists under an enforceable
    netting agreement. For an OTC derivative, our credit exposure is
    directly with our counterparty and continues until the maturity
    or termination of such contract.

113

Table of Contents   

The following tables set forth the fair values of our OTC
    derivative assets and liabilities by product and by remaining
    contractual maturity:

OTC
    Derivatives 
       (in
    millions)

(1)   

Represents the netting of
    receivable balances with payable balances for the same
    counterparty across contract types within a maturity category,
    pursuant to credit support agreements.

(2)   

Represents the netting of
    receivable balances with payable balances for the same
    counterparty across maturity categories, pursuant to credit
    support agreements.

(3)   

Represents the netting of cash
    collateral received and posted on a counterparty basis pursuant
    to credit support agreements.

(4)   

Includes fair values of OTC
    derivative assets and liabilities, maturing within six months,
    of $56.72 billion and $51.26 billion, respectively.

114

Table of Contents   

OTC
    Derivatives 
       (in
    millions)

(1)   

Represents the netting of
    receivable balances with payable balances for the same
    counterparty across contract types within a maturity category,
    pursuant to credit support agreements.

(2)   

Represents the netting of
    receivable balances with payable balances for the same
    counterparty across maturity categories, pursuant to credit
    support agreements.

(3)   

Represents the netting of cash
    collateral received and posted on a counterparty basis pursuant
    to credit support agreements.

(4)   

Includes fair values of OTC
    derivative assets and liabilities, maturing within six months,
    of $41.80 billion and $41.12 billion, respectively.

In the tables above, for option contracts that require
    settlement by delivery of an underlying derivative instrument,
    the remaining contractual maturity is generally classified based
    upon the maturity date of the underlying derivative instrument.
    In those instances where the underlying instrument does not have
    a maturity date or either counterparty has the right to settle
    in cash, the remaining contractual maturity is generally based
    upon the option expiration date.

115

Table of Contents   

The following tables set forth the distribution, by credit
    rating, of our exposure with respect to OTC derivatives by
    remaining contractual maturity, both before and after
    consideration of the effect of collateral and netting
    agreements. The categories shown reflect our internally
    determined public rating agency equivalents:

OTC Derivative
    Credit Exposure 
       (in
    millions)

(1)  

Includes fair values of OTC derivative assets, maturing within
    six months, of $56.72 billion and $41.80 billion as of
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively.

(2)  

Represents the netting of receivable balances with payable
    balances for the same counterparty across maturity categories
    and the netting of cash collateral received, pursuant to credit
    support agreements. Receivable and payable balances with the
    same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted
    within such maturity category, where appropriate.

Derivative transactions may also involve legal risks including
    the risk that they are not authorized or appropriate for a
    counterparty, that documentation has not been properly executed
    or that executed agreements may not be enforceable against the
    counterparty. We attempt to minimize these risks by obtaining
    advice of counsel on the enforceability of agreements as well as
    on the authority of a counterparty to effect the derivative
    transaction. In addition, certain derivative transactions
    (e.g., credit derivative contracts) involve the risk that
    we may have difficulty obtaining, or be unable to obtain, the
    underlying security or obligation in order to satisfy any
    physical settlement requirement.

116

Table of Contents   

Liquidity and
    Funding Risk  

Liquidity is of critical importance to companies in the
    financial services sector. Most failures of financial
    institutions have occurred in large part due to insufficient
    liquidity resulting from adverse circumstances. Accordingly,
    Goldman Sachs has in place a comprehensive set of liquidity and
    funding policies that are intended to maintain significant
    flexibility to address both Goldman Sachs-specific and broader
    industry or market liquidity events. Our principal objective is
    to be able to fund Goldman Sachs and to enable our core
    businesses to continue to generate revenues, even under adverse
    circumstances.

We have implemented a number of policies according to the
    following liquidity risk management framework:

Excess Liquidity   We maintain substantial excess
    liquidity to meet a broad range of potential cash outflows in a
    stressed environment, including financing obligations.

Asset-Liability 
    Management   We seek to maintain secured and unsecured
    funding sources that are sufficiently
     long-term  in
    order to withstand a prolonged or severe liquidity-stressed
    environment without having to rely on asset sales.

Conservative Liability Structure   We seek to access
    funding across a diverse range of markets, products and
    counterparties, emphasize less
     credit-sensitive 
    sources of funding and conservatively manage the distribution of
    funding across our entity structure.

Crisis Planning   We base our liquidity and funding
    management on
     stress-scenario 
    planning and maintain a crisis plan detailing our response to a
    liquidity-threatening event.

Excess
    Liquidity   

Our most important liquidity policy is to
     pre-fund 
    what we estimate will be our likely cash needs during a
    liquidity crisis and hold such excess liquidity in the form of
    unencumbered, highly liquid securities that may be sold or
    pledged to provide
     same-day 
    liquidity. This  Global Core Excess  is intended to
    allow us to meet immediate obligations without needing to sell
    other assets or depend on additional funding from
     credit-sensitive 
    markets. We believe that this pool of excess liquidity provides
    us with a resilient source of funds and gives us significant
    flexibility in managing through a difficult funding environment.
    Our Global Core Excess reflects the following principles:

The first days or weeks of a liquidity crisis are the most
    critical to a company s survival.

Focus must be maintained on all potential cash and collateral
    outflows, not just disruptions to financing flows. Goldman
    Sachs  businesses are diverse, and its cash needs are
    driven by many factors, including market movements, collateral
    requirements and client commitments, all of which can change
    dramatically in a difficult funding environment.

During a liquidity crisis,
     credit-sensitive 
    funding, including unsecured debt and some types of secured
    financing agreements, may be unavailable, and the terms or
    availability of other types of secured financing may change.

As a result of our policy to
     pre-fund 
    liquidity that we estimate may be needed in a crisis, we hold
    more unencumbered securities and have larger unsecured debt
    balances than our businesses would otherwise require. We believe
    that our liquidity is stronger with greater balances of highly
    liquid unencumbered securities, even though it increases our
    unsecured liabilities and our funding costs.

117

Table of Contents   

The size of our Global Core Excess is based on an internal
    liquidity model together with a qualitative assessment of the
    condition of the financial markets and of Goldman Sachs. Our
    liquidity model identifies and estimates cash and collateral
    outflows over a
     short-term 
    horizon in a liquidity crisis, including, but not limited to:

upcoming maturities of unsecured debt and letters of credit;

potential buybacks of a portion of our outstanding negotiable
    unsecured debt and potential withdrawals of client deposits;

adverse changes in the terms or availability of secured funding;

derivatives and other margin and collateral outflows, including
    those due to market moves;

potential cash outflows associated with our prime brokerage
    business;

additional collateral that could be called in the event of a
     two-notch 
    downgrade in our credit ratings;

draws on our unfunded commitments not supported by William
    Street Funding
    Corporation  (1) ;

    and

upcoming cash outflows, such as tax and other large payments.

The following table sets forth the average loan value (the
    estimated amount of cash that would be advanced by
    counterparties against these securities), as well as overnight
    cash deposits, of our Global Core Excess:

The
     U.S. dollar-denominated 
    excess is comprised of only unencumbered U.S. government
    securities, U.S. agency securities and highly liquid
    U.S. agency
     mortgage-backed 
    securities, all of which are eligible as collateral in Federal
    Reserve open market operations, as well as overnight cash
    deposits. Our
     non-U.S. dollar-denominated 
    excess is comprised of only unencumbered French, German, United
    Kingdom and Japanese government bonds and overnight cash
    deposits in highly liquid currencies. We strictly limit our
    Global Core Excess to this narrowly defined list of securities
    and cash because we believe they are highly liquid, even in a
    difficult funding environment. We do not believe other potential
    sources of excess liquidity, such as lower-quality unencumbered
    securities or committed credit facilities, are as reliable in a
    liquidity crisis.

We maintain our Global Core Excess to enable us to meet current
    and potential liquidity requirements of our parent company,
    Group Inc., and all of its subsidiaries. The amount of our
    Global Core Excess is driven by our assessment of potential cash
    and collateral outflows, regulatory obligations and the currency
    and timing requirements of our global business model. In
    addition, we recognize that our Global Core Excess held in a
    regulated entity may not be available to our parent company or
    other subsidiaries and therefore may only be available to meet
    the potential liquidity requirements of that entity.

(1)  The

    Global Core Excess excludes liquid assets of $4.40 billion
    held separately by William Street Funding Corporation. See
        Contractual 
    Obligations and Commitments  above for a further discussion
    of the William Street credit extension program.

(2)  Beginning

    in 2008, our Global Core Excess as presented includes the Global
    Core Excess of GS Bank USA and GS Bank Europe. The 2007 amounts
    include $3.48 billion of Global Core Excess at GS Bank USA.

118

Table of Contents   

In addition to our Global Core Excess, we have a significant
    amount of other unencumbered securities as a result of our
    business activities. These assets, which are located in the U.
    S., Europe and Asia, include other government bonds,
     high-grade 
    money market securities, corporate bonds and marginable
    equities. We do not include these securities in our Global Core
    Excess.

We maintain our Global Core Excess and other unencumbered assets
    in an amount that, if pledged or sold, would provide the funds
    necessary to replace at least 110% of our unsecured obligations
    that are scheduled to mature (or where holders have the option
    to redeem) within the next 12 months. We assume
    conservative loan values that are based on
     stress-scenario 
    borrowing capacity and we regularly review these assumptions
    asset class by asset class. The estimated aggregate loan value
    of our Global Core Excess, as well as overnight cash deposits,
    and our other unencumbered assets averaged $163.41 billion
    and $156.74 billion for the fiscal years ended
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively.

Asset-Liability 
    Management   

We seek to maintain a highly liquid balance sheet and
    substantially all of our inventory is
     marked-to-market 
    daily. We utilize aged inventory limits for certain financial
    instruments as a disincentive to our businesses to hold
    inventory over longer periods of time. We believe that these
    limits provide a complementary mechanism for ensuring
    appropriate balance sheet liquidity in addition to our standard
    position limits. Although our balance sheet fluctuates due to
    client activity, market conventions and periodic market
    opportunities in certain of our businesses, our total assets and
    adjusted assets at financial statement dates are typically not
    materially different from those occurring within our reporting
    periods.

We seek to manage the maturity profile of our secured and
    unsecured funding base such that we should be able to liquidate
    our assets prior to our liabilities coming due, even in times of
    prolonged or severe liquidity stress. We do not rely on
    immediate sales of assets (other than our Global Core Excess) to
    maintain liquidity in a distressed environment, although we
    recognize orderly asset sales may be prudent or necessary in a
    severe or persistent liquidity crisis.

In order to avoid reliance on asset sales, our goal is to ensure
    that we have sufficient total capital (unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings plus total shareholders  equity) to fund our
    balance sheet for at least one year. The target amount of our
    total capital is based on an internal liquidity model, which
    incorporates, among other things, the following
     long-term 
    financing requirements:

the portion of trading assets that we believe could not be
    funded on a secured basis in periods of market stress, assuming
    conservative loan values;

goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, property, leasehold
    improvements and equipment, and other illiquid assets;

derivative and other margin and collateral requirements;

anticipated draws on our unfunded loan commitments; and

capital or other forms of financing in our regulated
    subsidiaries that are in excess of their
     long-term 
    financing requirements. See
        Conservative 
    Liability Structure  below for a further discussion of how
    we fund our subsidiaries.

119

Table of Contents   

Certain financial instruments may be more difficult to fund on a
    secured basis during times of market stress. Accordingly, we
    generally hold higher levels of total capital for these assets
    than more liquid types of financial instruments. The following
    table sets forth our aggregate holdings in these categories of
    financial instruments:

(1)   

Includes funded commitments and
    inventory held in connection with our origination and secondary
    trading activities.

(2)   

Includes interests in our merchant
    banking funds. Such amounts exclude assets related to
    consolidated investment funds of $1.16 billion and
    $8.13 billion as of November 2008 and
    November 2007, respectively, for which Goldman Sachs does
    not bear economic exposure.

(3)   

Includes interests of
    $3.48 billion and $4.30 billion as of
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively, held by
    investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs.

(4)   

During our second quarter of 2008,
    we converted
     one-third  of
    our SMFG preferred stock investment into SMFG common stock, and
    delivered the common stock to close out
     one-third  of
    our hedge position.

(5)   

Includes interests in other
    investment funds that we manage.

(6)   

Excludes $7.64 billion as of
    November 2007 of mortgage whole loans that were transferred
    to securitization vehicles where such transfers were accounted
    for as secured financings rather than sales under
    SFAS No. 140. We distributed to investors the
    securities that were issued by the securitization vehicles and
    therefore did not bear economic exposure to the underlying
    mortgage whole loans.

A large portion of these assets are funded through secured
    funding markets or nonrecourse financing. We focus on funding
    these assets on a secured basis with long contractual maturities
    to reduce refinancing risk in periods of market stress.

See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding the financial instruments we
    hold.

Conservative
    Liability Structure   

We seek to structure our liabilities conservatively to reduce
    refinancing risk and the risk that we may be required to redeem
    or repurchase certain of our borrowings prior to their
    contractual maturity.

We fund a substantial portion of our inventory on a secured
    basis, which we believe provides Goldman Sachs with a more
    stable source of liquidity than unsecured financing, as it is
    less sensitive to changes in our credit due to the underlying
    collateral. However, we recognize that the terms or availability
    of secured funding, particularly overnight funding, can
    deteriorate rapidly in a difficult environment. To help mitigate
    this risk, we raise the majority of our funding for durations
    longer than overnight. We seek longer terms for secured funding
    collateralized by lower-quality assets, as we believe these
    funding transactions may pose greater refinancing risk. The
    weighted average life of our secured funding, excluding funding
    collateralized by highly liquid securities, such as U.S.,
    French, German, United Kingdom and Japanese government bonds,
    and U.S. agency securities, exceeded 100 days as of
    November 2008.

120

Table of Contents   

Our liquidity also depends to an important degree on the
    stability of our
     short-term 
    unsecured financing base. Accordingly, we prefer the use of
    promissory notes (in which Goldman Sachs does not make a market)
    over commercial paper, which we may repurchase prior to maturity
    through the ordinary course of business as a market maker. As of
    November 2008 and November 2007, our unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings, including the current portion of unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings, were $52.66 billion and $71.56 billion,
    respectively. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding our unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings.

We issue
     long-term 
    borrowings as a source of total capital in order to meet our
     long-term 
    financing requirements. The following table sets forth our
    quarterly unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings maturity profile through 2014:

Unsecured
     Long-Term 
    Borrowings Maturity Profile 

($ in millions)

The weighted average maturity of our unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings as of November 2008 was approximately eight
    years. To mitigate refinancing risk, we seek to limit the
    principal amount of debt maturing on any one day or during any
    week or year. We swap a substantial portion of our
     long-term 
    borrowings into U.S. dollar obligations with
     short-term 
    floating interest rates in order to minimize our exposure to
    interest rates and foreign exchange movements.

We issue substantially all of our unsecured debt without
    provisions that would, based solely upon an adverse change in
    our credit ratings, financial ratios, earnings, cash flows or
    stock price, trigger a requirement for an early payment,
    collateral support, change in terms, acceleration of maturity or
    the creation of an additional financial obligation.

As of November 2008, our bank depository institution
    subsidiaries had $27.64 billion in customer deposits,
    including $19.15 billion of deposits from our bank sweep
    programs and $8.49 billion of brokered certificates of
    deposit with a weighted average maturity of three years. In
    addition, we are pursuing a number of strategies to raise
    additional deposits as a source of funding for the firm. As of

121

Table of Contents   

September 2008, GS Bank USA has access to funding through
    the Federal Reserve Bank discount window. While we do not rely
    on funding through the Federal Reserve Bank discount window in
    our liquidity modeling and stress testing, we maintain policies
    and procedures necessary to access this funding.

We seek to maintain broad and diversified funding sources
    globally for both secured and unsecured funding. We make
    extensive use of the repurchase agreement and securities lending
    markets, as well as other secured funding markets. In addition,
    we issue debt through syndicated U.S. registered offerings,
    U.S. registered and 144A
     medium-term 
    note programs, offshore
     medium-term 
    note offerings and other bond offerings, U.S. and
     non-U.S. commercial 
    paper and promissory note issuances and other methods. We also
    arrange for letters of credit to be issued on our behalf.

We seek to distribute our funding products through our own sales
    force to a large, diverse global creditor base and we believe
    that our relationships with our creditors are critical to our
    liquidity. Our creditors include banks, governments, securities
    lenders, pension funds, insurance companies, mutual funds and
    individuals. We access funding in a variety of markets in the
    Americas, Europe and Asia. We have imposed various internal
    guidelines on creditor concentration, including the amount of
    our commercial paper and promissory notes that can be owned and
    letters of credit that can be issued by any single creditor or
    group of creditors.

In the latter half of 2008, we were unable to raise significant
    amounts of long-term unsecured debt in the public markets, other
    than as a result of the issuance of securities guaranteed by the
    FDIC under the TLGP. It is unclear when we will regain access to
    the public long-term unsecured debt markets on customary terms
    or whether any similar program will be available after the
    TLGP s scheduled June 2009 expiration. However, we continue
    to have access to short-term funding and to a number of sources
    of secured funding, both in the private markets and through
    various government and central bank sponsored initiatives.

Over the past year, a number of U.S. regulatory agencies
    have taken steps to enhance the liquidity support available to
    financial services companies such as Group Inc., GS Co.,
    GSI and GS Bank USA. Some of these steps include:

The Federal Reserve Bank of New York established the Primary
    Dealer Credit Facility in March 2008 to provide overnight
    funding to primary dealers in exchange for a specified range of
    collateral. In September 2008, the eligible collateral was
    expanded to include all collateral eligible in tri-party
    repurchase arrangements with the major clearing banks, and the
    facility was made available to GSI. This facility is scheduled
    to expire on April 30, 2009.

The Federal Reserve Board introduced a new Term Securities
    Lending Facility (TSLF) in March 2008, which extended the
    term for which the Federal Reserve Board will lend Treasury
    securities to primary dealers from overnight to 28 days
    and, in September 2008, expanded the types of assets that
    can be used as collateral under the TSLF to include all
     investment-grade 
    debt securities (rather than just Treasury, agency and certain
    AAA-rated asset-backed securities). This facility is scheduled
    to expire on April 30, 2009.

In October 2008, the Federal Reserve Board established the
    Commercial Paper Funding Facility (CPFF) to serve as a funding
    backstop to facilitate the issuance of term commercial paper by
    eligible issuers. Through the CPFF, the Federal Reserve Bank of
    New York will finance the purchase of unsecured and
     asset-backed 
    highly rated,
     U.S. dollar-denominated, 
     three-month 
    commercial paper from eligible issuers through its primary
    dealers. The facility is scheduled to expire on
    April 30, 2009. Our available funding under the CPFF
    is approximately $11 billion, of which a de minimis amount
    was utilized as of January 22, 2009.

122

Table of Contents   

The FDIC s TLGP, which was established in
    October 2008, provides a guarantee of certain newly issued
    senior unsecured debt issued by eligible entities, including
    Group Inc. and GS Bank USA, as well as funds over $250,000 in
     non-interest-bearing 
    transaction deposit accounts held by FDIC-insured banks (such as
    GS Bank USA). The debt guarantee is available, subject to
    limitations, for debt issued through June 30, 2009 and
    the deposit coverage lasts through December 31, 2009.
    We are able to have outstanding approximately $35 billion
    of debt under the TLGP that is issued prior to
    June 30, 2009. As of November 2008 and
    January 22, 2009, we had outstanding $4.18 billion of
    senior unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings and $25.54 billion of senior unsecured debt
    (comprised of $11.57 billion of short-term and $13.97 billion of
    long-term), respectively, under the TLGP.

See
        Certain 
    Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses  above, and
     Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of our
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for a discussion of factors that could impair our ability to
    access the capital markets.

Subsidiary Funding Policies.   Substantially all
    of our unsecured funding is raised by our parent company, Group
    Inc. The parent company then lends the necessary funds to its
    subsidiaries, some of which are regulated, to meet their asset
    financing and capital requirements. In addition, the parent
    company provides its regulated subsidiaries with the necessary
    capital to meet their regulatory requirements. The benefits of
    this approach to subsidiary funding include enhanced control and
    greater flexibility to meet the funding requirements of our
    subsidiaries. Funding is also raised at the subsidiary level
    through secured funding and deposits.

Our intercompany funding policies are predicated on an
    assumption that, unless legally provided for, funds or
    securities are not freely available from a subsidiary to its
    parent company or other subsidiaries. In particular, many of our
    subsidiaries are subject to laws that authorize regulatory
    bodies to block or limit the flow of funds from those
    subsidiaries to Group Inc. Regulatory action of that kind could
    impede access to funds that Group Inc. needs to make payments on
    obligations, including debt obligations. As such, we assume that
    capital or other financing provided to our regulated
    subsidiaries is not available to our parent company or other
    subsidiaries until the maturity of such financing. In addition,
    we recognize that the Global Core Excess held in our regulated
    entities may not be available to our parent company or other
    subsidiaries and therefore may only be available to meet the
    potential liquidity requirements of those entities.

We also manage our liquidity risk by requiring senior and
    subordinated intercompany loans to have maturities equal to or
    shorter than the maturities of the aggregate borrowings of the
    parent company. This policy ensures that the subsidiaries 
    obligations to the parent company will generally mature in
    advance of the parent company s
     third-party 
    borrowings. In addition, many of our subsidiaries and affiliates
    maintain unencumbered assets to cover their unsecured
    intercompany borrowings (other than subordinated debt) in order
    to mitigate parent company liquidity risk.

Group Inc. has provided substantial amounts of equity and
    subordinated indebtedness, directly or indirectly, to its
    regulated subsidiaries; for example, as of November 2008,
    Group Inc. had $26.01 billion of such equity and
    subordinated indebtedness invested in GS Co., its principal
    U.S. registered
     broker-dealer; 
    $22.06 billion invested in GSI, a regulated U.K.
     broker-dealer; 
    $2.48 billion invested in Goldman Sachs
    Execution   Clearing, L.P., a U.S. registered
     broker-dealer; 
    $3.79 billion invested in Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd., a
    regulated Japanese
     broker-dealer; 
    and $17.32 billion invested in GS Bank USA, a regulated New
    York State-chartered bank. Group Inc. also had
    $62.81 billion of unsubordinated loans to these entities as
    of November 2008, as well as significant amounts of capital
    invested in and loans to its other regulated subsidiaries.

123

Table of Contents   

Crisis
    Planning   

In order to be prepared for a liquidity event, or a period of
    market stress, we base our liquidity risk management framework
    and our resulting funding and liquidity policies on conservative
     stress-scenario 
    assumptions. Our planning incorporates several
     market-based 
    and operational stress scenarios. We also periodically conduct
    liquidity crisis drills to test our lines of communication and
    backup funding procedures.

In addition, we maintain a liquidity crisis plan that specifies
    an approach for analyzing and responding to a
    liquidity-threatening event. The plan provides the framework to
    estimate the likely impact of a liquidity event on Goldman Sachs
    based on some of the risks identified above and outlines which
    and to what extent liquidity maintenance activities should be
    implemented based on the severity of the event.

Credit
    Ratings   

We rely upon the
     short-term 
    and
     long-term 
    debt capital markets to fund a significant portion of our
     day-to-day 
    operations. The cost and availability of debt financing is
    influenced by our credit ratings. Credit ratings are important
    when we are competing in certain markets and when we seek to
    engage in longer-term transactions, including OTC derivatives.
    We believe our credit ratings are primarily based on the credit
    rating agencies  assessment of our liquidity, market,
    credit and operational risk management practices, the level and
    variability of our earnings, our capital base, our franchise,
    reputation and management, our corporate governance and the
    external operating environment. See
        Certain 
    Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses  above, and
     Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of our
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for a discussion of the risks associated with a reduction in our
    credit ratings.

On December 16, 2008, Moody s Investors Service
    affirmed Group Inc. s
     Short-Term 
    Debt rating and lowered Group Inc. s ratings on
     Long-Term 
    Debt (from Aa3 to A1), Subordinated Debt (from A1 to A2) and
    Preferred Stock (from A2 to A3), and retained its outlook of
     negative.  Also on December 16, 2008,
    Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited affirmed Group Inc. s
    credit ratings but revised its outlook from  negative 
    to  under review with negative implications.  On
    December 17, 2008, Rating and Investment Information,
    Inc. affirmed Group Inc. s
     Short-Term 
    Debt rating at
     a-1+, 
    lowered Group Inc. s
     Long-Term 
    Debt ratings from AA to AA- and retained its outlook of
     negative.  On December 19, 2008,
    Standard   Poor s Ratings Services lowered Group
    Inc. s ratings on
     Short-Term 
    Debt (from
     A-1+  to
     A-1), 
     Long-Term 
    Debt (from AA- to A), Subordinated Debt (from A+ to A-) and
    Preferred Stock (from A to BBB) and retained its outlook of
     negative.  On January 23, 2009, Dominion Bond
    Rating Service Limited lowered Group Inc. s ratings on
    Long-Term Debt (from AA (low) to A (high)), Subordinated Debt
    (from A (high) to A) and Preferred Stock (from A to
    A (low)).

The following table sets forth our unsecured credit ratings as
    of January 23, 2009:

Short-Term Debt 

Long-Term Debt 

Subordinated Debt 

Preferred Stock 

Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited

R-1 (middle)

A (high)

A

A (low)

Fitch, Inc. 

F1+

AA-

A+

A+

Moody   s Investors Service

P-1

A1

A2

A3

Standard   Poor   s Ratings Services

A-1

A

A-

BBB

Rating and Investment Information, Inc. 

a-1+

AA-

Not Applicable

Not Applicable

124

Table of Contents   

Based on our credit ratings as of November 2008, additional
    collateral or termination payments pursuant to bilateral
    agreements with certain counterparties of approximately
    $1.11 billion and $1.51 billion would have been
    required in the event of a
     one-notch 
    and
     two-notch 
    reduction, respectively, in our
     long-term 
    credit ratings. Based on our credit ratings reflected in the
    above table, additional collateral or termination payments
    pursuant to bilateral agreements with certain counterparties of
    approximately $897 million and $2.14 billion would
    have been required in the event of a one-notch and two-notch
    reduction, respectively, in our long-term credit ratings as of
    December 26, 2008. In evaluating our liquidity
    requirements, we consider additional collateral or termination
    payments that would be required in the event of a
     two-notch 
    reduction in our
     long-term 
    credit ratings, as well as collateral that has not been called
    by counterparties, but is available to them.

Cash
    Flows   

As a global financial institution, our cash flows are complex
    and interrelated and bear little relation to our net earnings
    and net assets and, consequently, we believe that traditional
    cash flow analysis is less meaningful in evaluating our
    liquidity position than the excess liquidity and
     asset-liability 
    management policies described above. Cash flow analysis may,
    however, be helpful in highlighting certain macro trends and
    strategic initiatives in our business.

Year Ended November 2008.   Our cash and
    cash equivalents increased by $5.46 billion to
    $15.74 billion at the end of 2008. We raised
    $9.80 billion in net cash from operating and financing
    activities, primarily from common and preferred stock issuances
    and deposits, partially offset by repayments of
     short-term 
    borrowings. We used net cash of $4.34 billion in our
    investing activities.

Year Ended November 2007.   Our cash and
    cash equivalents increased by $4.34 billion to
    $10.28 billion at the end of 2007. We raised
    $73.79 billion in net cash from financing and investing
    activities, primarily through the issuance of unsecured
    borrowings, partially offset by common stock repurchases. We
    used net cash of $69.45 billion in our operating
    activities, primarily to capitalize on trading and investing
    opportunities for our clients and ourselves.

Operational
    Risk  

Operational risk relates to the risk of loss arising from
    shortcomings or failures in internal processes, people or
    systems, or from external events. Operational risk can arise
    from many factors ranging from routine processing errors to
    potentially costly incidents related to, for example, major
    systems failures. Operational risk may also cause reputational
    harm. Thus, efforts to identify, manage and mitigate operational
    risk must be equally sensitive to the risk of reputational
    damage as well as the risk of financial loss.

We manage operational risk through the application of
     long-standing, 
    but continuously evolving, firmwide control standards which are
    supported by the training, supervision and development of our
    people; the active participation and commitment of senior
    management in a continuous process of identifying and mitigating
    key operational risks across Goldman Sachs; and a framework of
    strong and independent control departments that monitor
    operational risk on a daily basis. Together, these elements form
    a strong firmwide control culture that serves as the foundation
    of our efforts to minimize operational risk exposure.

Operational Risk Management   Analysis, a risk
    management function independent of our revenue-producing units,
    is responsible for developing and implementing a formalized
    framework to identify, measure, monitor, and report operational
    risks to support active risk management across Goldman Sachs.
    This framework, which evolves with the changing needs of our
    businesses and regulatory guidance, incorporates analysis of
    internal and external operational risk events, business
    environment and internal control factors, and scenario analysis.
    The framework also provides regular reporting of our operational
    risk exposures to our Board, risk committees and senior
    management. For a further discussion of operational risk see
        Certain 
    Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses  above, and
        Risk 
    Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report
    on
     Form 10-K. 

125

Table of Contents   

Recent Accounting
    Developments  

EITF Issue
     No. 06-11.    In
    June 2007, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached
    consensus on Issue
     No. 06-11, 
     Accounting for Income Tax Benefits of Dividends on
     Share-Based 
    Payment Awards.  EITF Issue
     No. 06-11 
    requires that the tax benefit related to dividend equivalents
    paid on restricted stock units, which are expected to vest, be
    recorded as an increase to additional
     paid-in 
    capital. We currently account for this tax benefit as a
    reduction to income tax expense. EITF Issue
     No. 06-11 
    is to be applied prospectively for tax benefits on dividends
    declared in fiscal years beginning after
    December 15, 2007. We do not expect the adoption of
    EITF Issue
     No. 06-11 
    to have a material effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

FASB Staff Position No. FAS
     140-3.    In
    February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP)
     No. FAS 140-3, 
     Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets and
    Repurchase Financing Transactions. 
     FSP No. FAS 140-3 
    requires an initial transfer of a financial asset and a
    repurchase financing that was entered into contemporaneously or
    in contemplation of the initial transfer to be evaluated as a
    linked transaction under SFAS No. 140 unless certain
    criteria are met, including that the transferred asset must be
    readily obtainable in the marketplace.
     FSP No. FAS 140-3 
    is effective for fiscal years beginning after
    November 15, 2008, and is applicable to new
    transactions entered into after the date of adoption. Early
    adoption is prohibited. We do not expect adoption of
     FSP No. FAS 140-3 
    to have a material effect on our financial condition and cash
    flows. Adoption of
     FSP No. FAS 140-3 
    will have no effect on our results of operations.

SFAS No. 161.   In March 2008,
    the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,  Disclosures about
    Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities   an
    amendment of FASB Statement No. 133. 
    SFAS No. 161 requires enhanced disclosures about an
    entity s derivative and hedging activities, and is
    effective for financial statements issued for reporting periods
    beginning after November 15, 2008, with early
    application encouraged. Since SFAS No. 161 requires
    only additional disclosures concerning derivatives and hedging
    activities, adoption of SFAS No. 161 will not affect
    our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

FASB Staff Position No. EITF
     03-6-1.    In
    June 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. EITF
     03-6-1, 
     Determining Whether Instruments Granted in
     Share-Based 
    Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities.  The FSP
    addresses whether instruments granted in
     share-based 
    payment transactions are participating securities prior to
    vesting and therefore need to be included in the earnings
    allocation in calculating earnings per share under the two-class
    method described in SFAS No. 128,  Earnings per
    Share.  The FSP requires companies to treat unvested
     share-based 
    payment awards that have
     non-forfeitable 
    rights to dividend or dividend equivalents as a separate class
    of securities in calculating earnings per share. The FSP is
    effective for fiscal years beginning after
    December 15, 2008; earlier application is not
    permitted. We do not expect adoption of FSP
     No. EITF 03-6-1 
    to have a material effect on our results of operations or
    earnings per share.

FASB Staff Position
     No. FAS 133-1 
    and
     FIN 45-4.    In
    September 2008, the FASB issued
     FSP No. FAS 133-1 
    and
     FIN 45-4, 
     Disclosures about Credit Derivatives and Certain
    Guarantees: An Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 and FASB
    Interpretation No. 45; and Clarification of the Effective
    Date of FASB Statement No. 161. 
     FSP No. FAS 133-1 
    and
     FIN 45-4 
    requires enhanced disclosures about credit derivatives and
    guarantees and amends FIN 45,  Guarantor s
    Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including
    Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others  to exclude
    credit derivative instruments accounted for at fair value under
    SFAS No. 133. The FSP is effective for financial
    statements issued for reporting periods ending after
    November 15, 2008. Since
     FSP No. FAS 133-1 
    and
     FIN 45-4 
    only requires additional disclosures concerning credit
    derivatives and guarantees, adoption of
     FSP No. FAS 133-1 
    and
     FIN 45-4 
    did not have an effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

126

Table of Contents   

FASB Staff Position
     No. FAS 157-3.    In
    October 2008, the FASB issued
     FSP No. FAS 157-3, 
     Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the
    Market for That Asset Is Not Active. 
     FSP No. FAS 157-3 
    clarifies the application of SFAS No. 157 in an
    inactive market, without changing its existing principles. The
    FSP was effective immediately upon issuance. The adoption of
     FSP No. FAS 157-3 
    did not have an effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

SFAS No. 141(R).   In
    December 2007, the FASB issued a revision to
    SFAS No. 141,  Business Combinations. 
    SFAS No. 141(R) requires changes to the accounting for
    transaction costs, certain contingent assets and liabilities,
    and other balances in a business combination. In addition, in
    partial acquisitions, when control is obtained, the acquiring
    company must measure and record all of the target s assets
    and liabilities, including goodwill, at fair value as if the
    entire target company had been acquired. We will apply the
    provisions of SFAS No. 141(R) to business combinations
    occurring after December 26, 2008. Adoption of
    SFAS No. 141(R) will not affect our financial
    condition, results of operations or cash flows, but may have an
    effect on accounting for future business combinations.

SFAS No. 160.   In December 2007,
    the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling
    Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements   an
    amendment of ARB No. 51.  SFAS No. 160
    requires that ownership interests in consolidated subsidiaries
    held by parties other than the parent (noncontrolling interests)
    be accounted for and presented as equity, rather than as a
    liability or mezzanine equity. SFAS No. 160 is
    effective for fiscal years beginning on or after
    December 15, 2008, but the presentation and disclosure
    requirements are to be applied retrospectively. We do not expect
    adoption of the statement to have a material effect on our
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

FASB Staff Position
     No. FAS 140-4 
    and FIN 46(R)-8.   In December 2008, the
    FASB issued
     FSP No. FAS 140-4 
    and FIN 46(R)-8,  Disclosures by Public Entities
    (Enterprises) about Transfers of Financial Assets and Interests
    in Variable Interest Entities. 
     FSP No. FAS 140-4 
    and FIN 46(R)-8 requires enhanced disclosures about
    transfers of financial assets and interests in variable interest
    entities. The FSP is effective for interim and annual periods
    ending after December 15, 2008. Since the FSP requires
    only additional disclosures concerning transfers of financial
    assets and interests in variable interest entities, adoption of
    the FSP will not affect our financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

EITF Issue
     No. 07-5.    In
    June 2008, the EITF reached consensus on Issue
     No. 07-5, 
     Determining Whether an Instrument (or Embedded Feature) Is
    Indexed to an Entity s Own Stock.  EITF Issue
     No. 07-5 
    provides guidance about whether an instrument (such as our
    outstanding common stock warrants) should be classified as
    equity and not marked to market for accounting purposes. EITF
    Issue
     No. 07-5 
    is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
    2008. Adoption of EITF Issue
     No. 07-5 
    will not affect our financial condition, results of operations
    or cash flows.

Item 7A.
    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk  

Quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk is set
    forth under  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Risk
    Management  in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K. 

127

Table of Contents   

Item 8.    

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data  

INDEX  

128

Table of Contents   

Management s
    Report on Internal Control over 
    Financial Reporting  

Management of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., together with its
    consolidated subsidiaries (the firm), is responsible for
    establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
    financial reporting. The firm s internal control over
    financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision
    of the firm s principal executive and principal financial
    officers to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the
    firm s financial statements for external reporting purposes
    in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting
    principles.

As of the end of the firm s 2008 fiscal year, management
    conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of the firm s
    internal control over financial reporting based on the framework
    established in  Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this
    assessment, management has determined that the firm s
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    November 28, 2008 was effective.

Our internal control over financial reporting includes policies
    and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that,
    in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions
    and dispositions of assets; provide reasonable assurances that
    transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
    financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally
    accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
    expenditures are being made only in accordance with
    authorizations of management and the directors of the firm; and
    provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
    detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the
    firm s assets that could have a material effect on our
    financial statements.

The firm s internal control over financial reporting as of
    November 28, 2008 has been audited by
    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
    accounting firm, as stated in their report appearing on
    page 130, which expresses an unqualified opinion on the
    effectiveness of the firm s internal control over financial
    reporting as of November 28, 2008.

129

Table of Contents   

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

To the Board of Directors and the Shareholders of

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.:

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in
    the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects,
    the financial position of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and its
    subsidiaries (the Company) at November 28, 2008 and
    November 30, 2007, and the results of its operations
    and its cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the
    period ended November 28, 2008 in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all
    material respects, effective internal control over financial
    reporting as of November 28, 2008, based on criteria
    established in  Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The
    Company s management is responsible for these financial
    statements, for maintaining effective internal control over
    financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness
    of internal control over financial reporting, included in
    Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting appearing on page 129. Our responsibility is to
    express opinions on these financial statements and on the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting based
    on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance
    with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
    Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
    perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
    the financial statements are free of material misstatement and
    whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
    maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial
    statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence
    supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
    statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
    significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the
    overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal
    control over financial reporting included obtaining an
    understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
    assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing
    and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
    internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also
    included performing such other procedures as we considered
    necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits
    provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.

As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial
    statements, as of the beginning of 2007 the Company adopted
    SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  and
    SFAS No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for
    Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. 

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
    transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
    financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
    company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/
     PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

New York, New York 

January 22, 2009

130

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.

131

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL
    CONDITION 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.

132

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN
    SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.

133

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES:

Cash payments for interest, net of capitalized interest, were
    $32.37 billion, $40.74 billion and $30.98 billion
    for the years ended November 2008, November 2007 and
    November 2006, respectively.

Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, were
    $3.47 billion, $5.78 billion and $4.56 billion
    for the years ended November 2008, November 2007 and
    November 2006, respectively.

Non-cash 
    activities: 

The firm assumed $790 million, $409 million and
    $498 million of debt in connection with business
    acquisitions for the years ended November 2008,
    November 2007 and November 2006, respectively.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.

134

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE
    INCOME 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.

135

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS 

Note 1.    

Description
    of Business  

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (Group Inc.), a Delaware
    corporation, is a bank holding company and, together with its
    consolidated subsidiaries (collectively, the firm), a leading
    global investment banking, securities and investment management
    firm that provides a wide range of services worldwide to a
    substantial and diversified client base that includes
    corporations, financial institutions, governments and
     high-net-worth 
    individuals.

The firm s activities are divided into three segments:

Investment Banking.  The firm provides a broad range
    of investment banking services to a diverse group of
    corporations, financial institutions, investment funds,
    governments and individuals.

Trading and Principal Investments.  The firm
    facilitates client transactions with a diverse group of
    corporations, financial institutions, investment funds,
    governments and individuals and takes proprietary positions
    through market making in, trading of and investing in fixed
    income and equity products, currencies, commodities and
    derivatives on these products. In addition, the firm engages in
    market-making and specialist activities on equities and options
    exchanges, and the firm clears client transactions on major
    stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide. In connection
    with the firm s merchant banking and other investing
    activities, the firm makes principal investments directly and
    through funds that the firm raises and manages.

Asset Management and Securities Services.  The firm
    provides investment advisory and financial planning services and
    offers investment products (primarily through separately managed
    accounts and commingled vehicles, such as mutual funds and
    private investment funds) across all major asset classes to a
    diverse group of institutions and individuals worldwide and
    provides prime brokerage services, financing services and
    securities lending services to institutional clients, including
    hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds and foundations, and to
     high-net-worth 
    individuals worldwide.

Note 2.    

Significant
    Accounting Policies  

Basis of
    Presentation   

These consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
    Group Inc. and all other entities in which the firm has a
    controlling financial interest. All material intercompany
    transactions and balances have been eliminated.

The firm determines whether it has a controlling financial
    interest in an entity by first evaluating whether the entity is
    a voting interest entity, a variable interest entity (VIE) or a
    qualifying
     special-purpose 
    entity (QSPE) under generally accepted accounting principles.

Voting Interest Entities.  Voting interest entities
    are entities in which (i) the total equity investment at
    risk is sufficient to enable the entity to finance its
    activities independently and (ii) the equity holders have
    the obligation to absorb losses, the right to receive residual
    returns and the right to make decisions about the entity s
    activities. Voting interest entities are consolidated in
    accordance with Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51,
     Consolidated Financial Statements,  as amended. The
    usual condition for a controlling financial interest in an
    entity is ownership of a majority voting interest. Accordingly,
    the firm consolidates voting interest entities in which it has a
    majority voting interest.

Variable Interest Entities.  VIEs are entities that
    lack one or more of the characteristics of a voting interest
    entity. A controlling financial interest in a VIE is present
    when an enterprise has a variable interest, or a combination of
    variable interests, that will absorb a majority of the
    VIE s expected losses, receive a majority of the VIE s
    expected residual returns, or both. The

136

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

enterprise with a controlling financial interest, known as the
    primary beneficiary, consolidates the VIE. In accordance with
    Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation
     (FIN) 46-R, 
     Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities,  the
    firm consolidates VIEs for which it is the primary beneficiary.
    The firm determines whether it is the primary beneficiary of a
    VIE by first performing a qualitative analysis of the VIE s
    expected losses and expected residual returns. This analysis
    includes a review of, among other factors, the VIE s
    capital structure, contractual terms, which interests create or
    absorb variability, related party relationships and the design
    of the VIE. Where qualitative analysis is not conclusive, the
    firm performs a quantitative analysis. For purposes of
    allocating a VIE s expected losses and expected residual
    returns to its variable interest holders, the firm utilizes the
     top down  method. Under that method, the firm
    calculates its share of the VIE s expected losses and
    expected residual returns using the specific cash flows that
    would be allocated to it, based on contractual arrangements
     and/or  the
    firm s position in the capital structure of the VIE, under
    various probability-weighted scenarios. The firm reassesses its
    initial evaluation of an entity as a VIE and its initial
    determination of whether the firm is the primary beneficiary of
    a VIE upon the occurrence of certain reconsideration events as
    defined in
     FIN 46-R. 

QSPEs.  QSPEs are passive entities that are commonly
    used in mortgage and other securitization transactions.
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 140,
     Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets
    and Extinguishments of Liabilities,  sets forth the
    criteria an entity must satisfy to be a QSPE. These criteria
    include the types of assets a QSPE may hold, limits on asset
    sales, the use of derivatives and financial guarantees, and the
    level of discretion a servicer may exercise in attempting to
    collect receivables. These criteria may require management to
    make judgments about complex matters, such as whether a
    derivative is considered passive and the level of discretion a
    servicer may exercise, including, for example, determining when
    default is reasonably foreseeable. In accordance with
    SFAS No. 140 and
     FIN 46-R, 
    the firm does not consolidate QSPEs.

Equity-Method 
    Investments.  When the firm does not have a controlling
    financial interest in an entity but exerts significant influence
    over the entity s operating and financial policies
    (generally defined as owning a voting interest of 20% to 50%)
    and has an investment in common stock or
     in-substance 
    common stock, the firm accounts for its investment either in
    accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion (APB)
    No. 18,  The Equity Method of Accounting for
    Investments in Common Stock  or at fair value in accordance
    with SFAS No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for
    Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.  In general,
    the firm accounts for investments acquired subsequent to the
    adoption of SFAS No. 159 at fair value. In certain cases,
    the firm may apply the equity method of accounting to new
    investments that are strategic in nature or closely related to
    the firm s principal business activities, where the firm
    has a significant degree of involvement in the cash flows or
    operations of the investee, or where
     cost-benefit 
    considerations are less significant. See
        Revenue 
    Recognition   Other Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities at Fair Value  below for a discussion of the
    firm s application of SFAS No. 159.

Other.  If the firm does not consolidate an entity or
    apply the equity method of accounting, the firm accounts for its
    investment at fair value. The firm also has formed numerous
    nonconsolidated investment funds with
     third-party 
    investors that are typically organized as limited partnerships.
    The firm acts as general partner for these funds and generally
    does not hold a majority of the economic interests in these
    funds. The firm has generally provided the
     third-party 
    investors with rights to terminate the funds or to remove the
    firm as the general partner. As a result, the firm does not
    consolidate these funds. These fund investments are included in
     Trading assets, at fair value  in the consolidated
    statements of financial condition.

137

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Unless otherwise stated herein, all references to 2008, 2007 and
    2006 refer to the firm s fiscal years ended, or the dates,
    as the context requires, November 28, 2008,
    November 30, 2007 and November 24, 2006,
    respectively. Certain reclassifications have been made to
    previously reported amounts to conform to the current
    presentation.

Use of
    Estimates   

These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles that
    require management to make certain estimates and assumptions.
    The most important of these estimates and assumptions relate to
    fair value measurements, the accounting for goodwill and
    identifiable intangible assets and the provision for potential
    losses that may arise from litigation and regulatory proceedings
    and tax audits. Although these and other estimates and
    assumptions are based on the best available information, actual
    results could be materially different from these estimates.

Revenue
    Recognition   

Investment Banking.  Underwriting revenues and fees
    from mergers and acquisitions and other financial advisory
    assignments are recognized in the consolidated statements of
    earnings when the services related to the underlying transaction
    are completed under the terms of the engagement. Expenses
    associated with such transactions are deferred until the related
    revenue is recognized or the engagement is otherwise concluded.
    Underwriting revenues are presented net of related expenses.
    Expenses associated with financial advisory transactions are
    recorded as
     non-compensation 
    expenses, net of client reimbursements.

Trading Assets and Trading
    Liabilities.  Substantially all trading assets and
    trading liabilities are reflected in the consolidated statements
    of financial condition at fair value, pursuant principally to:

SFAS No. 115,  Accounting for Certain Investments
    in Debt and Equity Securities; 

specialized industry accounting for
     broker-dealers 
    and investment companies;

SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative
    Instruments and Hedging Activities;  or

the fair value option under either SFAS No. 155,
     Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial
    Instruments   an amendment of FASB Statements
    No. 133 and 140,  or SFAS No. 159,  The
    Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities,  (i.e., the fair value option).

Related unrealized gains or losses are generally recognized in
     Trading and principal investments  in the
    consolidated statements of earnings.

Upon becoming a bank holding company in September 2008, the
    firm could no longer apply specialized
     broker-dealer 
    industry accounting to those subsidiaries not regulated as
     broker-dealers. 
    Therefore, within the firm s
     non-broker-dealer 
    subsidiaries, the firm designated as held for trading those
    instruments within the scope of SFAS No. 115 (i.e.,
    debt securities and marketable equity securities), and elected
    the fair value option for other cash instruments (specifically
    loans, loan commitments and certain private equity and
    restricted public equity securities) which the firm historically
    had carried at fair value. These fair value elections were in
    addition to previous elections made for certain corporate loans,
    loan commitments and certificates of deposit issued by Goldman
    Sachs Bank USA (GS Bank USA). There was no impact on earnings
    from these initial elections because all of these instruments
    were already recorded at fair value in  Trading assets, at
    fair value  or  Trading liabilities, at fair
    value  in the consolidated statements of financial
    condition prior to Group Inc. becoming a bank holding company.

138

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Other Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities at Fair
    Value.  In addition to  Trading assets, at fair
    value  and  Trading liabilities, at fair value, 
    the firm has elected to account for certain of its other
    financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value under
    the fair value option. The primary reasons for electing the fair
    value option are to reflect economic events in earnings on a
    timely basis, to mitigate volatility in earnings from using
    different measurement attributes and to address simplification
    and
     cost-benefit 
    considerations.

Such financial assets and financial liabilities accounted for at
    fair value include:

certain unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings, consisting of all promissory notes and commercial
    paper and certain hybrid financial instruments;

certain other secured financings, primarily transfers accounted
    for as financings rather than sales under
    SFAS No. 140, debt raised through the firm s
    William Street program and certain other nonrecourse financings;

certain unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings, including prepaid physical commodity transactions;

resale and repurchase agreements;

securities borrowed and loaned within Trading and Principal
    Investments, consisting of the firm s matched book and
    certain firm financing activities;

certain corporate loans, loan commitments and certificates of
    deposit issued by GS Bank USA as well as securities held by GS
    Bank USA;

receivables from customers and counterparties arising from
    transfers accounted for as secured loans rather than purchases
    under SFAS No. 140;

certain insurance and reinsurance contracts; and

in general, investments acquired after the adoption of
    SFAS No. 159 where the firm has significant influence
    over the investee and would otherwise apply the equity method of
    accounting.

Fair Value Measurements.  The fair value of a
    financial instrument is the amount that would be received to
    sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly
    transaction between market participants at the measurement date
    (the exit price). Financial assets are marked to bid prices and
    financial liabilities are marked to offer prices. Fair value
    measurements do not include transaction costs.

The firm adopted SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value
    Measurements,  as of the beginning of 2007.
    SFAS No. 157 establishes a fair value hierarchy that
    prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure
    fair value. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to
    unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets
    or liabilities (level 1 measurements) and the lowest
    priority to unobservable inputs (level 3 measurements). The
    three levels of the fair value hierarchy under
    SFAS No. 157 are described below:

Basis of Fair Value
    Measurement

Level 1     

Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets that are accessible
    at the measurement date for identical, unrestricted assets or
    liabilities;

Level 2     

Quoted prices in markets that are not considered to be active or
    financial instruments for which all significant inputs are
    observable, either directly or indirectly;

Level 3     

Prices or valuations that require inputs that are both
    significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable.

139

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

A financial instrument s level within the fair value
    hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is
    significant to the fair value measurement.

The firm defines active markets for equity instruments based on
    the average daily trading volume both in absolute terms and
    relative to the market capitalization for the instrument. The
    firm defines active markets for debt instruments based on both
    the average daily trading volume and the number of days with
    trading activity.

During the fourth quarter of 2008, both the FASB and the staff
    of the SEC re-emphasized the importance of sound fair value
    measurement in financial reporting. In October 2008, the
    FASB issued FASB Staff Position
     No. FAS 157-3, 
     Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the
    Market for That Asset is Not Active.  This statement
    clarifies that determining fair value in an inactive or
    dislocated market depends on facts and circumstances and
    requires significant management judgment. This statement
    specifies that it is acceptable to use inputs based on
    management estimates or assumptions, or for management to make
    adjustments to observable inputs to determine fair value when
    markets are not active and relevant observable inputs are not
    available. The firm s fair value measurement policies are
    consistent with the guidance in
     FSP No. FAS 157-3. 

Credit risk is an essential component of fair value. Cash
    products (e.g., bonds and loans) and derivative instruments
    (particularly those with significant future projected cash
    flows) trade in the market at levels which reflect credit
    considerations. The firm calculates the fair value of derivative
    assets by discounting future cash flows at a rate which
    incorporates counterparty credit spreads and the fair value of
    derivative liabilities by discounting future cash flows at a
    rate which incorporates the firm s own credit spreads. In
    doing so, credit exposures are adjusted to reflect mitigants,
    namely collateral agreements which reduce exposures based on
    triggers and contractual posting requirements. The firm manages
    its exposure to credit risk as it does other market risks and
    will price, economically hedge, facilitate and intermediate
    trades which involve credit risk. The firm records liquidity
    valuation adjustments to reflect the cost of exiting
    concentrated risk positions, including exposure to the
    firm s own credit spreads.

In determining fair value, the firm separates its  Trading
    assets, at fair value  and its  Trading liabilities,
    at fair value  into two categories: cash instruments and
    derivative contracts.

Cash Instruments.  The firm s cash instruments
    are generally classified within level 1 or level 2 of
    the fair value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted
    market prices, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative
    pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.
    The types of instruments valued based on quoted market prices in
    active markets include most U.S. government and sovereign
    obligations, active listed equities and certain money market
    securities. Such instruments are generally classified within
    level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. In accordance with
    SFAS No. 157, the firm does not adjust the quoted
    price for such instruments, even in situations where the firm
    holds a large position and a sale could reasonably impact the
    quoted price.

The types of instruments that trade in markets that are not
    considered to be active, but are valued based on quoted market
    prices, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative pricing
    sources with reasonable levels of price transparency include
    most government agency securities,
     investment-grade 
    corporate bonds, certain mortgage products, certain bank loans
    and bridge loans, less liquid listed equities, state, municipal
    and provincial obligations and certain money market securities
    and loan commitments. Such instruments are generally classified
    within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.

Certain cash instruments are classified within level 3 of
    the fair value hierarchy because they trade infrequently and
    therefore have little or no price transparency. Such instruments
    include private equity and real estate fund investments, certain
    bank loans and bridge loans (including

140

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

certain mezzanine financing, leveraged loans arising from
    capital market transactions and other corporate bank debt), less
    liquid corporate debt securities and other debt obligations
    (including less liquid
     high-yield 
    corporate bonds, distressed debt instruments and collateralized
    debt obligations (CDOs) backed by corporate obligations), less
    liquid mortgage whole loans and securities (backed by either
    commercial or residential real estate), and acquired portfolios
    of distressed loans. The transaction price is initially used as
    the best estimate of fair value. Accordingly, when a pricing
    model is used to value such an instrument, the model is adjusted
    so that the model value at inception equals the transaction
    price. This valuation is adjusted only when changes to inputs
    and assumptions are corroborated by evidence such as
    transactions in similar instruments, completed or pending
     third-party 
    transactions in the underlying investment or comparable
    entities, subsequent rounds of financing, recapitalizations and
    other transactions across the capital structure, offerings in
    the equity or debt capital markets, and changes in financial
    ratios or cash flows.

For positions that are not traded in active markets or are
    subject to transfer restrictions, valuations are adjusted to
    reflect illiquidity
     and/or 
     non-transferability. 
    Such adjustments are generally based on available market
    evidence. In the absence of such evidence, management s
    best estimate is used.

Recent market conditions, particularly in the fourth quarter of
    2008 (characterized by dislocations between asset classes,
    elevated levels of volatility, and reduced price transparency),
    have increased the level of management judgment required to
    value cash trading instruments classified within level 3 of
    the fair value hierarchy. In particular, management s
    judgment is required to determine the appropriate
     risk-adjusted 
    discount rate for cash trading instruments with little or no
    price transparency as a result of decreased volumes and lower
    levels of trading activity. In such situations, the firm s
    valuation is adjusted to approximate rates which market
    participants would likely consider appropriate for relevant
    credit and liquidity risks.

Derivative Contracts.  Derivative contracts can be
     exchange-traded 
    or
     over-the-counter 
    (OTC).
     Exchange-traded 
    derivatives typically fall within level 1 or level 2
    of the fair value hierarchy depending on whether they are deemed
    to be actively traded or not. The firm generally values
     exchange-traded 
    derivatives using models which calibrate to
     market-clearing 
    levels and eliminate timing differences between the closing
    price of the
     exchange-traded 
    derivatives and their underlying instruments. In such cases,
     exchange-traded 
    derivatives are classified within level 2 of the fair value
    hierarchy.

OTC derivatives are valued using market transactions and other
    market evidence whenever possible, including
     market-based 
    inputs to models, model calibration to
     market-clearing 
    transactions, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative
    pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.
    Where models are used, the selection of a particular model to
    value an OTC derivative depends upon the contractual terms of,
    and specific risks inherent in, the instrument as well as the
    availability of pricing information in the market. The firm
    generally uses similar models to value similar instruments.
    Valuation models require a variety of inputs, including
    contractual terms, market prices, yield curves, credit curves,
    measures of volatility, prepayment rates and correlations of
    such inputs. For OTC derivatives that trade in liquid markets,
    such as generic forwards, swaps and options, model inputs can
    generally be verified and model selection does not involve
    significant management judgment. OTC derivatives are classified
    within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy when all of the
    significant inputs can be corroborated to market evidence.

Certain OTC derivatives trade in less liquid markets with
    limited pricing information, and the determination of fair value
    for these derivatives is inherently more difficult. Such
    instruments

141

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

are classified within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
    Where the firm does not have corroborating market evidence to
    support significant model inputs and cannot verify the model to
    market transactions, the transaction price is initially used as
    the best estimate of fair value. Accordingly, when a pricing
    model is used to value such an instrument, the model is adjusted
    so that the model value at inception equals the transaction
    price. The valuations of these less liquid OTC derivatives are
    typically based on level 1
     and/or 
    level 2 inputs that can be observed in the market, as well
    as unobservable level 3 inputs. Subsequent to initial
    recognition, the firm updates the level 1 and level 2
    inputs to reflect observable market changes, with resulting
    gains and losses reflected within level 3. Level 3
    inputs are only changed when corroborated by evidence such as
    similar market transactions,
     third-party 
    pricing services
     and/or 
    broker or dealer quotations, or other empirical market data. In
    circumstances where the firm cannot verify the model value to
    market transactions, it is possible that a different valuation
    model could produce a materially different estimate of fair
    value.

When appropriate, valuations are adjusted for various factors
    such as liquidity, bid/offer spreads and credit considerations.
    Such adjustments are generally based on available market
    evidence. In the absence of such evidence, management s
    best estimate is used.

Collateralized Agreements and
    Financings.  Collateralized agreements consist of resale
    agreements and securities borrowed. Collateralized financings
    consist of repurchase agreements, securities loaned and other
    secured financings. Interest on collateralized agreements and
    collateralized financings is recognized in  Interest
    income  and  Interest expense,  respectively,
    over the life of the transaction.

Resale and Repurchase Agreements.  Securities
    purchased under agreements to resell and securities sold under
    agreements to repurchase, principally U.S. government,
    federal agency and
     investment-grade 
    sovereign obligations, represent collateralized financing
    transactions. The firm receives securities purchased under
    agreements to resell, makes delivery of securities sold under
    agreements to repurchase, monitors the market value of these
    securities on a daily basis and delivers or obtains additional
    collateral as appropriate. As noted above, resale and repurchase
    agreements are carried in the consolidated statements of
    financial condition at fair value under SFAS No. 159.
    Resale and repurchase agreements are generally valued based on
    inputs with reasonable levels of price transparency and are
    classified within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
    Resale and repurchase agreements are presented on a
     net-by-counterparty 
    basis when the requirements of FIN 41,  Offsetting of
    Amounts Related to Certain Repurchase and Reverse Repurchase
    Agreements,  or FIN 39,  Offsetting of Amounts
    Related to Certain Contracts,  are satisfied.

Securities Borrowed and Loaned.  Securities borrowed
    and loaned are generally collateralized by cash, securities or
    letters of credit. The firm receives securities borrowed, makes
    delivery of securities loaned, monitors the market value of
    securities borrowed and loaned, and delivers or obtains
    additional collateral as appropriate. Securities borrowed and
    loaned within Securities Services, relating to both customer
    activities and, to a lesser extent, certain firm financing
    activities, are recorded based on the amount of cash collateral
    advanced or received plus accrued interest. As these
    arrangements generally can be terminated on demand, they exhibit
    little, if any, sensitivity to changes in interest rates. As
    noted above, securities borrowed and loaned within Trading and
    Principal Investments, which are related to the firm s
    matched book and certain firm financing activities, are recorded
    at fair value under SFAS No. 159. These securities
    borrowed and loaned transactions are generally valued based on
    inputs with reasonable levels of price transparency and are
    classified within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.

142

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Other Secured Financings.  In addition to repurchase
    agreements and securities loaned, the firm funds assets through
    the use of other secured financing arrangements and pledges
    financial instruments and other assets as collateral in these
    transactions. As noted above, the firm has elected to apply
    SFAS No. 159 to transfers accounted for as financings
    rather than sales under SFAS No. 140, debt raised
    through the firm s William Street program and certain other
    nonrecourse financings, for which the use of fair value
    eliminates
     non-economic 
    volatility in earnings that would arise from using different
    measurement attributes. These other secured financing
    transactions are generally valued based on inputs with
    reasonable levels of price transparency and are generally
    classified within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
    Other secured financings that are not recorded at fair value are
    recorded based on the amount of cash received plus accrued
    interest. See Note 3 for further information regarding
    other secured financings.

Hybrid Financial Instruments.  Hybrid financial
    instruments are instruments that contain bifurcatable embedded
    derivatives under SFAS No. 133 and do not require
    settlement by physical delivery of
     non-financial 
    assets (e.g., physical commodities). If the firm elects to
    bifurcate the embedded derivative, it is accounted for at fair
    value and the host contract is accounted for at amortized cost,
    adjusted for the effective portion of any fair value hedge
    accounting relationships. If the firm does not elect to
    bifurcate, the entire hybrid financial instrument is accounted
    for at fair value under SFAS No. 155. See Notes 3
    and 6 for further information regarding hybrid financial
    instruments.

Transfers of Financial Assets.  In general, transfers
    of financial assets are accounted for as sales under
    SFAS No. 140 when the firm has relinquished control
    over the transferred assets. For transfers accounted for as
    sales, any related gains or losses are recognized in net
    revenues. Transfers that are not accounted for as sales are
    accounted for as collateralized financings, with the related
    interest expense recognized in net revenues over the life of the
    transaction.

Commissions.  Commission revenues from executing and
    clearing client transactions on stock, options and futures
    markets are recognized in  Trading and principal
    investments  in the consolidated statements of earnings on
    a  trade-date 
    basis.

Insurance Activities.  Certain of the firm s
    insurance and reinsurance contracts are accounted for at fair
    value under SFAS No. 159, with changes in fair value
    included in  Trading and principal investments  in the
    consolidated statements of earnings.

Revenues from variable annuity and life insurance and
    reinsurance contracts not accounted for at fair value under
    SFAS No. 159 generally consist of fees assessed on
    contract holder account balances for mortality charges, policy
    administration fees and surrender charges, and are recognized
    within  Trading and principal investments  in the
    consolidated statements of earnings in the period that services
    are provided.

Interest credited to variable annuity and life insurance and
    reinsurance contracts account balances and changes in reserves
    are recognized in  Other expenses  in the consolidated
    statements of earnings.

Premiums earned for underwriting property catastrophe
    reinsurance are recognized within  Trading and principal
    investments  in the consolidated statements of earnings
    over the coverage period, net of premiums ceded for the cost of
    reinsurance. Expenses for liabilities related to property
    catastrophe reinsurance claims, including estimates of losses
    that have been incurred but not reported, are recognized within
     Other expenses  in the consolidated statements of
    earnings.

Merchant Banking Overrides.  The firm is entitled to
    receive merchant banking overrides (i.e., an increased
    share of a fund s income and gains) when the return on the
    funds  investments

143

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

exceeds certain threshold returns. Overrides are based on
    investment performance over the life of each merchant banking
    fund, and future investment underperformance may require amounts
    of override previously distributed to the firm to be returned to
    the funds. Accordingly, overrides are recognized in the
    consolidated statements of earnings only when all material
    contingencies have been resolved. Overrides are included in
     Trading and principal investments  in the
    consolidated statements of earnings.

Asset Management.  Management fees are recognized
    over the period that the related service is provided based upon
    average net asset values. In certain circumstances, the firm is
    also entitled to receive incentive fees based on a percentage of
    a fund s return or when the return on assets under
    management exceeds specified benchmark returns or other
    performance targets. Incentive fees are generally based on
    investment performance over a
     12-month 
    period and are subject to adjustment prior to the end of the
    measurement period. Accordingly, incentive fees are recognized
    in the consolidated statements of earnings when the measurement
    period ends. Asset management fees and incentive fees are
    included in  Asset management and securities services 
    in the consolidated statements of earnings.

Share-Based 
    Compensation   

The firm accounts for
     share-based 
    compensation in accordance with
     SFAS No. 123-R, 
      Share-Based 
    Payment.  The cost of employee services received in
    exchange for a
     share-based 
    award is generally measured based on the grant-date fair value
    of the award.
     Share-based 
    awards that do not require future service (i.e., vested
    awards, including awards granted to retirement-eligible
    employees) are expensed immediately.
     Share-based 
    employee awards that require future service are amortized over
    the relevant service period. Expected forfeitures are included
    in determining
     share-based 
    employee compensation expense. In the first quarter of 2006, the
    firm adopted
     SFAS No. 123-R 
    under the modified prospective adoption method. Under that
    method of adoption, the provisions of
     SFAS No. 123-R 
    are generally applied only to
     share-based 
    awards granted subsequent to adoption.
     Share-based 
    awards held by employees that were retirement-eligible on the
    date of adoption of
     SFAS No. 123-R 
    must continue to be amortized over the stated service period of
    the award (and accelerated if the employee actually retires).

The firm pays cash dividend equivalents on outstanding
    restricted stock units. Dividend equivalents paid on restricted
    stock units are generally charged to retained earnings. Dividend
    equivalents paid on restricted stock units expected to be
    forfeited are included in compensation expense. The tax benefit
    related to dividend equivalents paid on restricted stock units
    is accounted for as a reduction of income tax expense. See
        Recent 
    Accounting Developments  for a discussion of Emerging
    Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue
     No. 06-11, 
     Accounting for Income Tax Benefits of Dividends on
     Share-Based 
    Payment Awards. 

In certain cases, primarily related to the death of an employee
    or conflicted employment (as outlined in the applicable award
    agreements), the firm may cash settle
     share-based 
    compensation awards. For awards accounted for as equity
    instruments,  Additional
     paid-in 
    capital  is adjusted to the extent of the difference
    between the current value of the award and the grant-date value
    of the award.

Goodwill   

Goodwill is the cost of acquired companies in excess of the fair
    value of identifiable net assets at acquisition date. In
    accordance with SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other
    Intangible Assets,  goodwill is tested at least annually
    for impairment. An impairment loss is recognized if the
    estimated fair value of an operating segment, which is a
    component one level below the firm s three business
    segments, is

144

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

less than its estimated net book value. Such loss is calculated
    as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill
    and its carrying value.

Identifiable
    Intangible Assets   

Identifiable intangible assets, which consist primarily of
    customer lists, Designated Market Maker (DMM) rights and
    the value of business acquired (VOBA) and deferred acquisition
    costs (DAC) in the firm s insurance subsidiaries, are
    amortized over their estimated lives in accordance with
    SFAS No. 142 or, in the case of insurance contracts,
    in accordance with SFAS No. 60,  Accounting and
    Reporting by Insurance Enterprises,  and
    SFAS No. 97,  Accounting and Reporting by
    Insurance Enterprises for Certain
     Long-Duration 
    Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of
    Investments.  Identifiable intangible assets are tested for
    impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest
    that an asset s or asset group s carrying value may
    not be fully recoverable in accordance with
    SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or
    Disposal of
     Long-Lived 
    Assets,  or SFAS No. 60 and
    SFAS No. 97. An impairment loss, generally calculated
    as the difference between the estimated fair value and the
    carrying value of an asset or asset group, is recognized if the
    sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows relating to the
    asset or asset group is less than the corresponding carrying
    value.

Property,
    Leasehold Improvements and Equipment   

Property, leasehold improvements and equipment, net of
    accumulated depreciation and amortization, are recorded at cost
    and included in  Other assets  in the consolidated
    statements of financial condition.

Substantially all property and equipment are depreciated on a
    straight-line basis over the useful life of the asset. Leasehold
    improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the
    useful life of the improvement or the term of the lease,
    whichever is shorter. Certain costs of software developed or
    obtained for internal use are capitalized and amortized on a
    straight-line basis over the useful life of the software.

Property, leasehold improvements and equipment are tested for
    impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest
    that an asset s or asset group s carrying value may
    not be fully recoverable in accordance with
    SFAS No. 144. An impairment loss, calculated as the
    difference between the estimated fair value and the carrying
    value of an asset or asset group, is recognized if the sum of
    the expected undiscounted cash flows relating to the asset or
    asset group is less than the corresponding carrying value.

The firm s operating leases include office space held in
    excess of current requirements. Rent expense relating to space
    held for growth is included in  Occupancy  in the
    consolidated statements of earnings. In accordance with
    SFAS No. 146,  Accounting for Costs Associated
    with Exit or Disposal Activities,  the firm records a
    liability, based on the fair value of the remaining lease
    rentals reduced by any potential or existing sublease rentals,
    for leases where the firm has ceased using the space and
    management has concluded that the firm will not derive any
    future economic benefits. Costs to terminate a lease before the
    end of its term are recognized and measured at fair value upon
    termination.

Foreign
    Currency Translation   

Assets and liabilities denominated in
     non-U.S. currencies 
    are translated at rates of exchange prevailing on the date of
    the consolidated statement of financial condition, and revenues
    and expenses are translated at average rates of exchange for the
    period. Gains or losses on translation of the financial
    statements of a
     non-U.S. operation, 
    when the functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar,
    are included, net of hedges and taxes, in the consolidated
    statements of comprehensive

145

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

income. The firm seeks to reduce its net investment exposure to
    fluctuations in foreign exchange rates through the use of
    foreign currency forward contracts and foreign
     currency-denominated 
    debt. For foreign currency forward contracts, hedge
    effectiveness is assessed based on changes in forward exchange
    rates; accordingly, forward points are reflected as a component
    of the currency translation adjustment in the consolidated
    statements of comprehensive income. For foreign
    currency-denominated debt, hedge effectiveness is assessed based
    on changes in spot rates. Foreign currency remeasurement gains
    or losses on transactions in nonfunctional currencies are
    included in the consolidated statements of earnings.

Income
    Taxes   

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for temporary
    differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of the
    firm s assets and liabilities. Valuation allowances are
    established to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that
    more likely than not will be realized. The firm s tax
    assets and liabilities are presented as a component of
     Other assets  and  Other liabilities and accrued
    expenses,  respectively, in the consolidated statements of
    financial condition. Tax provisions are computed in accordance
    with SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income
    Taxes. 

The firm adopted the provisions of FIN 48,  Accounting
    for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an Interpretation of
    FASB Statement No. 109,  as of
    December 1, 2007, and recorded a transition adjustment
    resulting in a reduction of $201 million to beginning
    retained earnings. See Note 16 for further information
    regarding the firm s adoption of FIN 48. A tax
    position can be recognized in the financial statements only when
    it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained
    upon examination by the relevant taxing authority based on the
    technical merits of the position. A position that meets this
    standard is measured at the largest amount of benefit that will
    more likely than not be realized upon settlement. A liability is
    established for differences between positions taken in a tax
    return and amounts recognized in the financial statements.
    FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition,
    classification, interim period accounting and accounting for
    interest and penalties. Prior to the adoption of FIN 48,
    contingent liabilities related to income taxes were recorded
    when the criteria for loss recognition under
    SFAS No. 5,  Accounting for Contingencies, 
    as amended, had been met.

Earnings Per
    Common Share (EPS)   

Basic EPS is calculated by dividing net earnings applicable to
    common shareholders by the weighted average number of common
    shares outstanding. Common shares outstanding includes common
    stock and restricted stock units for which no future service is
    required as a condition to the delivery of the underlying common
    stock. Diluted EPS includes the determinants of basic EPS and,
    in addition, reflects the dilutive effect of the common stock
    deliverable pursuant to stock warrants and options and to
    restricted stock units for which future service is required as a
    condition to the delivery of the underlying common stock.

Cash and Cash
    Equivalents   

The firm defines cash equivalents as highly liquid overnight
    deposits held in the ordinary course of business. As of
    November 2008,  Cash and cash equivalents  on the
    consolidated statements of financial condition included
    $5.60 billion of cash and due from banks and
    $10.14 billion of interest-bearing deposits with banks. As
    of November 2007,  Cash and cash equivalents  on
    the consolidated statements of financial condition included
    $4.29 billion of cash and due from banks and
    $5.99 billion of interest-bearing deposits with banks.

146

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Recent
    Accounting Developments   

EITF Issue
     No. 06-11.   In
    June 2007, the EITF reached consensus on Issue
     No. 06-11, 
     Accounting for Income Tax Benefits of Dividends on
     Share-Based 
    Payment Awards.  EITF Issue
     No. 06-11 
    requires that the tax benefit related to dividend equivalents
    paid on restricted stock units, which are expected to vest, be
    recorded as an increase to additional
     paid-in 
    capital. The firm currently accounts for this tax benefit as a
    reduction to income tax expense. EITF Issue
     No. 06-11 
    is to be applied prospectively for tax benefits on dividends
    declared in fiscal years beginning after
    December 15, 2007. The firm does not expect the
    adoption of EITF Issue
     No. 06-11 
    to have a material effect on its financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

FASB Staff Position
     No. FAS 140-3.   In
    February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP)
     No. FAS 140-3, 
     Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets and
    Repurchase Financing Transactions. 
     FSP No. FAS 140-3 
    requires an initial transfer of a financial asset and a
    repurchase financing that was entered into contemporaneously or
    in contemplation of the initial transfer to be evaluated as a
    linked transaction under SFAS No. 140 unless certain
    criteria are met, including that the transferred asset must be
    readily obtainable in the marketplace.
     FSP No. FAS 140-3 
    is effective for fiscal years beginning after
    November 15, 2008, and is applicable to new
    transactions entered into after the date of adoption. Early
    adoption is prohibited. The firm does not expect adoption of
     FSP No. FAS 140-3 
    to have a material effect on its financial condition and cash
    flows. Adoption of
     FSP No. FAS 140-3 
    will have no effect on the firm s results of operations.

SFAS No. 161.  In March 2008, the FASB
    issued SFAS No. 161,  Disclosures about
    Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities   an
    amendment of FASB Statement No. 133. 
    SFAS No. 161 requires enhanced disclosures about an
    entity s derivative and hedging activities, and is
    effective for financial statements issued for reporting periods
    beginning after November 15, 2008, with early
    application encouraged. Since SFAS No. 161 requires
    only additional disclosures concerning derivatives and hedging
    activities, adoption of SFAS No. 161 will not affect
    the firm s financial condition, results of operations or
    cash flows.

FASB Staff Position
     No. EITF 03-6-1.   In
    June 2008, the FASB issued FSP No.
     EITF 03-6-1, 
     Determining Whether Instruments Granted in
     Share-Based 
    Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities.  The FSP
    addresses whether instruments granted in
     share-based 
    payment transactions are participating securities prior to
    vesting and therefore need to be included in the earnings
    allocation in calculating earnings per share under the two-class
    method described in SFAS No. 128,  Earnings per
    Share.  The FSP requires companies to treat unvested
     share-based 
    payment awards that have
     non-forfeitable 
    rights to dividend or dividend equivalents as a separate class
    of securities in calculating earnings per share. The FSP is
    effective for fiscal years beginning after
    December 15, 2008; earlier application is not
    permitted. The firm does not expect adoption of FSP No.
     EITF 03-6-1 
    to have a material effect on its results of operations or
    earnings per share.

FASB Staff Position
     No. FAS 133-1 
    and
     FIN 45-4.   In
    September 2008, the FASB issued
     FSP No. FAS 133-1 
    and
     FIN 45-4, 
     Disclosures about Credit Derivatives and Certain
    Guarantees: An Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 and FASB
    Interpretation No. 45; and Clarification of the Effective
    Date of FASB Statement No. 161. 
     FSP No. FAS 133-1 
    and
     FIN 45-4 
    requires enhanced disclosures about credit derivatives and
    guarantees and amends FIN 45,  Guarantor s
    Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including
    Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others  to exclude
    credit derivative instruments accounted for at fair value under
    SFAS No. 133. The FSP is effective for financial
    statements issued for reporting periods ending after
    November 15, 2008. Since
     FSP No. FAS 133-1 
    and
     FIN 45-4 
    only requires additional disclosures concerning credit
    derivatives and guarantees, adoption of
     FSP No. FAS 133-1 
    and
     FIN 45-4 
    did not have an effect on the firm s financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.

147

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

FASB Staff Position
     No. FAS 157-3.   In
    October 2008, the FASB issued
     FSP No. FAS 157-3, 
     Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the
    Market for That Asset Is Not Active. 
     FSP No. FAS 157-3 
    clarifies the application of SFAS No. 157 in an
    inactive market, without changing its existing principles. The
    FSP was effective immediately upon issuance. The adoption of
     FSP No. FAS 157-3 
    did not have an effect on the firm s financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.

SFAS No. 141(R).  In December 2007,
    the FASB issued a revision to SFAS No. 141,
     Business Combinations.  SFAS No. 141(R)
    requires changes to the accounting for transaction costs,
    certain contingent assets and liabilities, and other balances in
    a business combination. In addition, in partial acquisitions,
    when control is obtained, the acquiring company must measure and
    record all of the target s assets and liabilities,
    including goodwill, at fair value as if the entire target
    company had been acquired. The firm will apply the provisions of
    SFAS No. 141(R) to business combinations occurring
    after December 26, 2008. Adoption of
    SFAS No. 141(R) will not affect the firm s
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, but
    may have an effect on accounting for future business
    combinations.

SFAS No. 160.  In December 2007, the
    FASB issued SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling
    Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements   an
    amendment of ARB No. 51.  SFAS No. 160
    requires that ownership interests in consolidated subsidiaries
    held by parties other than the parent (noncontrolling interests)
    be accounted for and presented as equity, rather than as a
    liability or mezzanine equity. SFAS No. 160 is
    effective for fiscal years beginning on or after
    December 15, 2008, but the presentation and disclosure
    requirements are to be applied retrospectively. The firm does
    not expect adoption of the statement to have a material effect
    on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

FASB Staff Position
     No. FAS 140-4 
    and FIN 46(R)-8.  In December 2008, the FASB
    issued
     FSP No. FAS 140-4 
    and FIN 46(R)-8,  Disclosures by Public Entities
    (Enterprises) about Transfers of Financial Assets and Interests
    in Variable Interest Entities. 
     FSP No. FAS 140-4 
    and FIN 46(R)-8 requires enhanced disclosures about
    transfers of financial assets and interests in variable interest
    entities. The FSP is effective for interim and annual periods
    ending after December 15, 2008. Since the FSP requires
    only additional disclosures concerning transfers of financial
    assets and interests in variable interest entities, adoption of
    the FSP will not affect the firm s financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.

EITF Issue
     No. 07-5.   In
    June 2008, the EITF reached consensus on Issue
     No. 07-5, 
     Determining Whether an Instrument (or Embedded Feature) Is
    Indexed to an Entity s Own Stock.  EITF Issue
     No. 07-5 
    provides guidance about whether an instrument (such as the
    firm s outstanding common stock warrants) should be
    classified as equity and not marked to market for accounting
    purposes. EITF Issue
     No. 07-5 
    is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
    2008. Adoption of EITF Issue
     No. 07-5 
    will not affect the firm s financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

148

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 3.    

Financial
    Instruments  

Fair Value of
    Financial Instruments   

The following table sets forth the firm s trading assets,
    at fair value, including those pledged as collateral, and
    trading liabilities, at fair value. At any point in time, the
    firm may use cash instruments as well as derivatives to manage a
    long or short risk position.

(1) 

Includes $4.40 billion and $6.17 billion as of
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively, of
    money market instruments held by William Street Funding
    Corporation (Funding Corp.) to support the William Street credit
    extension program. See Note 8 for further information
    regarding the William Street program.

(2) 

Net of cash received pursuant to credit support agreements of
    $137.16 billion and $59.05 billion as of
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively.

(3) 

Includes $1.68 billion and $1.17 billion as of
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively, of
    securities held within the firm s insurance subsidiaries
    which are accounted for as
     available-for-sale 
    under SFAS No. 115.

(4) 

Includes the fair value of commitments to extend credit.

(5) 

Net of cash paid pursuant to credit support agreements of
    $34.01 billion and $27.76 billion as of
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively.

(6) 

Includes $7.64 billion as of November 2007 of mortgage
    whole loans that were transferred to securitization vehicles
    where such transfers were accounted for as secured financings
    rather than sales under SFAS No. 140. The firm
    distributed to investors the securities that were issued by the
    securitization vehicles and therefore did not bear economic
    exposure to the underlying mortgage whole loans.

149

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Fair Value
    Hierarchy   

The firm s financial assets at fair value classified within
    level 3 of the fair value hierarchy are summarized below:

(1)   

Excludes assets which are financed
    by nonrecourse debt, attributable to minority investors or
    attributable to employee interests in certain consolidated funds.

The following tables set forth by level within the fair value
    hierarchy  Trading assets, at fair value, 
     Trading liabilities, at fair value  and other
    financial assets and financial liabilities accounted for at fair
    value under SFAS No. 155 and SFAS No. 159 as
    of November 2008 and November 2007. See Note 2
    for further information on the fair value hierarchy. As required
    by SFAS No. 157, assets and liabilities are classified
    in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is
    significant to the fair value measurement.

150

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

(1)  

Principally consists of transfers accounted for as secured loans
    rather than purchases under SFAS No. 140 and prepaid
    variable share forwards.

(2)  

Consists of securities borrowed within Trading and Principal
    Investments. Excludes securities borrowed within Securities
    Services, which are accounted for based on the amount of cash
    collateral advanced plus accrued interest.

(3)  

Consists of level 3 assets which are financed by
    nonrecourse debt, attributable to minority investors or
    attributable to employee interests in certain consolidated funds.

(4)  

Consists of U.S. Treasury securities and money market
    instruments as well as insurance separate account assets
    measured at fair value under AICPA
     SOP 03-1, 
     Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for
    Certain Nontraditional
     Long-Duration 
    Contracts and for Separate Accounts. 

(5)  

Principally consists of securities borrowed and resale
    agreements. The underlying securities have been segregated to
    satisfy certain regulatory requirements.

(6)  

Consists of private equity and real estate fund investments.

(7)  

Represents cash collateral and the impact of netting across the
    levels of the fair value hierarchy. Netting among positions
    classified within the same level is included in that level.

151

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

(1)  

Consists of promissory notes, commercial paper and hybrid
    financial instruments.

(2)  

Consists of certain certificates of deposit issued by GS Bank
    USA.

(3)  

Consists of securities loaned within Trading and Principal
    Investments. Excludes securities loaned within Securities
    Services, which are accounted for based on the amount of cash
    collateral received plus accrued interest.

(4)  

Primarily includes transfers accounted for as financings rather
    than sales under SFAS No. 140, debt raised through the
    firm s William Street program and certain other nonrecourse
    financings.

(5)  

Consists of liabilities related to insurance contracts.

(6)  

Primarily includes hybrid financial instruments and prepaid
    physical commodity transactions.

(7)  

Level 3 liabilities were 7.0% of Total liabilities at fair
    value.

(8)  

Represents cash collateral and the impact of netting across the
    levels of the fair value hierarchy. Netting among positions
    classified within the same level is included in that level.

152

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

(1)  

Consists of transfers accounted for as secured loans rather than
    purchases under SFAS No. 140 and prepaid variable
    share forwards.

(2)  

Consists of securities borrowed within Trading and Principal
    Investments. Excludes securities borrowed within Securities
    Services, which are accounted for based on the amount of cash
    collateral advanced plus accrued interest.

(3)  

Consists of level 3 assets which are financed by
    nonrecourse debt, attributable to minority investors or
    attributable to employee interests in certain consolidated funds.

(4)  

Consists of U.S. Treasury securities and money market
    instruments as well as insurance separate account assets
    measured at fair value under AICPA
     SOP 03-1, 
     Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for
    Certain Nontraditional
     Long-Duration 
    Contracts and for Separate Accounts. 

(5)  

Principally consists of securities borrowed and resale
    agreements. The underlying securities have been segregated to
    satisfy certain regulatory requirements.

(6)  

Consists of private equity and real estate fund investments.

(7)  

Represents cash collateral and the impact of netting across the
    levels of the fair value hierarchy. Netting among positions
    classified within the same level is included in that level.

153

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

(1)  

Consists of promissory notes, commercial paper and hybrid
    financial instruments.

(2)  

Consists of certain certificates of deposit issued by GS Bank
    USA.

(3)  

Consists of securities loaned within Trading and Principal
    Investments. Excludes securities loaned within Securities
    Services, which are accounted for based on the amount of cash
    collateral received plus accrued interest.

(4)  

Primarily includes transfers accounted for as financings rather
    than sales under SFAS No. 140, debt raised through the
    firm s William Street program and certain other nonrecourse
    financings.

(5)  

Primarily includes hybrid financial instruments and prepaid
    physical commodity transactions.

(6)  

Level 3 liabilities were 4.0% of Total liabilities at fair
    value.

(7)  

Represents cash collateral and the impact of netting across the
    levels of the fair value hierarchy. Netting among positions
    classified within the same level is included in that level.

154

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Level 3
    Unrealized Gains/(Losses)   

The table below sets forth a summary of unrealized
    gains/(losses) on the firm s level 3 financial assets
    and financial liabilities still held at the reporting date for
    the years ended November 2008 and November 2007.

Cash
    Instruments   

The net unrealized loss on level 3 cash instruments of
    $12.36 billion for the year ended November 2008
    primarily consisted of unrealized losses on loans and securities
    backed by commercial real estate, certain bank loans and bridge
    loans, private equity and real estate fund investments. Losses
    during the year reflected the significant weakness in the global
    credit and equity markets.

Level 3 cash instruments are frequently economically hedged
    with instruments classified within level 1 and
    level 2, and accordingly, gains or losses that have been
    reported in level 3 can be offset by gains or losses
    attributable to instruments classified within level 1 or
    level 2 or by gains or losses on derivative contracts classified
    in level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.

Derivative
    Contracts   

The net unrealized gain on level 3 derivative contracts of
    $5.58 billion for the year ended November 2008 was
    primarily attributable to changes in observable credit spreads
    (which are level 2 inputs) on the underlying instruments.
    Level 3 gains and losses on derivative contracts should be
    considered in the context of the following:

A derivative contract with level 1
     and/or 
    level 2 inputs is classified as a level 3 financial
    instrument in its entirety if it has at least one significant
    level 3 input.

If there is one significant level 3 input, the entire gain
    or loss from adjusting only observable inputs
    (i.e., level 1 and level 2) is still
    classified as level 3.

Gains or losses that have been reported in level 3
    resulting from changes in level 1 or level 2 inputs
    are frequently offset by gains or losses attributable to
    instruments classified within level 1 or level 2 or by
    cash instruments reported in level 3 of the fair value
    hierarchy.

155

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The tables below set forth a summary of changes in the fair
    value of the firm s level 3 financial assets and
    financial liabilities for the years ended November 2008 and
    November 2007. The tables reflect gains and losses,
    including gains and losses on financial assets and financial
    liabilities that were transferred to level 3 during the
    year, for all financial assets and financial liabilities
    categorized as level 3 as of November 2008 and
    November 2007, respectively. The tables do not include
    gains or losses that were reported in level 3 in prior
    periods for instruments that were sold or transferred out of
    level 3 prior to the end of the period presented.

(1)  

The aggregate amounts include approximately $(11.54) billion and
    $1.98 billion reported in  Trading and principal
    investments  and  Interest income,  respectively,
    in the consolidated statements of earnings for the year ended
    November 2008. The aggregate amounts include approximately
    $(1.77) billion and $1.71 billion reported in  Trading
    and principal investments  and  Interest income, 
    respectively, in the consolidated statements of earnings for the
    year ended November 2007.

(2)  

Principally reflects transfers from level 2 within the fair
    value hierarchy of loans and securities backed by commercial
    real estate, reflecting reduced price transparency for these
    financial instruments.

(3)  

Substantially all is reported in  Trading and principal
    investments  in the consolidated statements of earnings.

(4)  

Principally resulted from changes in level 2 inputs.

(5)  

Principally reflects transfers to level 2 within the fair
    value hierarchy of
     mortgage-related 
    derivative assets, as recent trading activity provided improved
    transparency of correlation inputs. This decrease was partially
    offset by transfers from level 2 within the fair value
    hierarchy of credit and
     equity-linked 
    derivatives due to reduced price transparency.

(6)  

Consists of transfers from level 2 within the fair value
    hierarchy.

(7)  

Principally reflects transfers from level 2 within the fair
    value hierarchy of loans and securities backed by commercial and
    residential real estate and certain bank loans and bridge loans,
    reflecting reduced price transparency for these financial
    instruments.

(8)  

Principally reflects transfers from level 2 within the fair
    value hierarchy of structured credit derivative liabilities, due
    to reduced transparency of correlation inputs.

156

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Impact of
    Credit Spreads   

On an ongoing basis, the firm realizes gains or losses relating
    to changes in credit risk on derivative contracts through
    changes in credit mitigants or the sale or unwind of the
    contracts. The net gain/(loss) attributable to the impact of
    changes in credit exposure and credit spreads on derivative
    contracts was $(137) million and $86 million for the
    years ended November 2008 and November 2007,
    respectively.

The following table sets forth the net gains attributable to the
    impact of changes in the firm s own credit spreads on
    unsecured borrowings for which the fair value option was
    elected. The firm calculates the fair value of unsecured
    borrowings by discounting future cash flows at a rate which
    incorporates the firm s observable credit spreads.

The impact of changes in instrument-specific credit spreads on
    loans and loan commitments for which the fair value option was
    elected was a loss of $4.61 billion for the year ended
    November 2008 and not material for the year ended
    November 2007. The firm attributes changes in the fair
    value of floating rate loans and loan commitments to changes in
    instrument-specific credit spreads. For fixed rate loans and
    loan commitments, the firm allocates changes in fair value
    between interest rate-related changes and credit spread-related
    changes based on changes in interest rates. See below for
    additional details regarding the fair value option.

The Fair Value
    Option   

Gains/Losses   

The following table sets forth the gains/(losses) included in
    earnings for the years ended November 2008 and
    November 2007 as a result of the firm electing to apply the
    fair value option to certain financial assets and financial
    liabilities, as described in Note 2. The table excludes
    gains and losses related to trading assets and trading
    liabilities, as well as gains and losses that would have been
    recognized under other generally accepted accounting principles
    if the firm had not elected the fair value option or that are
    economically hedged with instruments accounted for at fair value
    under other generally accepted accounting principles.

(1)   

Excludes gains of
    $2.42 billion and losses of $2.18 billion for the
    years ended November 2008 and November 2007,
    respectively, related to the derivative component of hybrid
    financial instruments. Such gains and losses would have been
    recognized pursuant to SFAS No. 133 if the firm had
    not elected to account for the entire hybrid instrument at fair
    value under the fair value option.

157

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

(2)   

Excludes gains of
    $1.29 billion and $2.19 billion for the years ended
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively, related
    to financings recorded as a result of securitization-related
    transactions that were accounted for as secured financings
    rather than sales under SFAS No. 140. Changes in the
    fair value of these secured financings are offset by changes in
    the fair value of the related financial instruments included
    within the firm s  Trading assets, at fair value 
    in the consolidated statements of financial condition.

(3)   

Excludes gains of
    $6.37 billion and losses of $1.07 billion for the
    years ended November 2008 and November 2007,
    respectively, related to the derivative component of hybrid
    financial instruments. Such gains and losses would have been
    recognized pursuant to SFAS No. 133 if the firm had
    not elected to account for the entire hybrid instrument at fair
    value under the fair value option.

(4)   

Primarily consists of certain
    insurance and reinsurance contracts, resale and repurchase
    agreements and securities borrowed and loaned within Trading and
    Principal Investments.

(5)   

Reported within  Trading and
    principal investments  within the consolidated statements
    of earnings. The amounts exclude contractual interest, which is
    included in  Interest income  and  Interest
    expense,  for all instruments other than hybrid financial
    instruments.

All trading assets and trading liabilities are accounted for at
    fair value either under the fair value option or as required by
    other accounting pronouncements. Excluding equities commissions
    of $5.00 billion and $4.58 billion for the years ended
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively, and the gains and
    losses on the instruments accounted for under the fair value
    option described above, the firm s  Trading and
    principal investments  revenues in the consolidated
    statements of earnings primarily represent gains and losses on
     Trading assets, at fair value  and  Trading
    liabilities, at fair value  in the consolidated statements
    of financial condition.

Loans and Loan
    Commitments   

As of November 2008, the aggregate contractual principal
    amount of loans and long-term receivables for which the fair
    value option was elected exceeded the related fair value by
    $50.21 billion, including a difference of
    $37.46 billion related to loans with an aggregate fair
    value of $3.77 billion that were on nonaccrual status
    (including loans more than 90 days past due). The aggregate
    contractual principal exceeds the related fair value primarily
    because the firm regularly purchases loans, such as distressed
    loans, at values significantly below contractual principal
    amounts.

As of November 2008, the fair value of unfunded lending
    commitments for which the fair value option was elected was a
    liability of $3.52 billion and the related total
    contractual amount of these lending commitments was
    $39.49 billion.

As of November 2007, substantially all of the firm s
    loans and unfunded lending commitments were recorded at fair
    value in accordance with specialized industry accounting for
    broker-dealers, and not pursuant to the fair value option. As a
    result, the difference between the aggregate fair value and
    related contractual principal amounts of loans and long-term
    receivables accounted for under the fair value option was not
    material as of November 2007. See Note 2 for further
    information related to fair value option elections made by the
    firm upon becoming a bank holding company in September 2008.

Long-term Debt
    Instruments   

The aggregate contractual principal amount of long-term debt
    instruments (principal and non-principal protected) for which
    the fair value option was elected exceeded the related fair
    value by $2.42 billion as of November 2008, while the
    difference between the fair value and the aggregate contractual
    principal amount was not material to the carrying value as of
    November 2007.

158

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Credit
    Concentrations   

Credit concentrations may arise from trading, investing,
    underwriting and securities borrowing activities and may be
    impacted by changes in economic, industry or political factors.
    The firm seeks to mitigate credit risk by actively monitoring
    exposures and obtaining collateral as deemed appropriate. While
    the firm s activities expose it to many different
    industries and counterparties, the firm routinely executes a
    high volume of transactions with counterparties in the financial
    services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial
    banks, investment funds and other institutional clients,
    resulting in significant credit concentration with respect to
    this industry. In the ordinary course of business, the firm may
    also be subject to a concentration of credit risk to a
    particular counterparty, borrower or issuer.

As of November 2008 and November 2007, the firm held
    $53.98 billion (6% of total assets) and $45.75 billion
    (4% of total assets), respectively, of U.S. government and
    federal agency obligations included in  Trading assets, at
    fair value  and  Cash and securities segregated for
    regulatory and other purposes  in the consolidated
    statements of financial condition. As of November 2008 and
    November 2007, the firm held $21.13 billion (2% of
    total assets) and $31.65 billion (3% of total assets),
    respectively, of other sovereign obligations, principally
    consisting of securities issued by the governments of Japan and
    the United Kingdom. In addition, as of November 2008 and
    November 2007, $126.27 billion and
    $144.92 billion of the firm s securities purchased
    under agreements to resell and securities borrowed (including
    those in  Cash and securities segregated for regulatory and
    other purposes ), respectively, were collateralized by
    U.S. government and federal agency obligations. As of
    November 2008 and November 2007, $65.37 billion
    and $41.26 billion of the firm s securities purchased
    under agreements to resell and securities borrowed,
    respectively, were collateralized by other sovereign
    obligations. As of November 2008 and November 2007,
    the firm did not have credit exposure to any other counterparty
    that exceeded 2% of the firm s total assets.

Derivative
    Activities   

Derivative contracts are instruments, such as futures, forwards,
    swaps or option contracts, that derive their value from
    underlying assets, indices, reference rates or a combination of
    these factors. Derivative instruments may be privately
    negotiated contracts, which are often referred to as OTC
    derivatives, or they may be listed and traded on an exchange.
    Derivatives may involve future commitments to purchase or sell
    financial instruments or commodities, or to exchange currency or
    interest payment streams. The amounts exchanged are based on the
    specific terms of the contract with reference to specified
    rates, securities, commodities, currencies or indices.

Certain cash instruments, such as
     mortgage-backed 
    securities, interest-only and principal-only obligations, and
    indexed debt instruments, are not considered derivatives even
    though their values or contractually required cash flows are
    derived from the price of some other security or index. However,
    certain commodity-related contracts are included in the
    firm s derivatives disclosure, as these contracts may be
    settled in cash or the assets to be delivered under the contract
    are readily convertible into cash.

The firm enters into derivative transactions to facilitate
    client transactions, to take proprietary positions and as a
    means of risk management. Risk exposures are managed through
    diversification, by controlling position sizes and by entering
    into offsetting positions. For example, the firm may manage the
    risk related to a portfolio of common stock by entering into an
    offsetting position in a related
     equity-index 
    futures contract.

The firm applies hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133
    to certain derivative contracts. The firm uses these derivatives
    to manage certain interest rate and currency exposures,
    including the firm s net investment in
     non-U.S. operations. 
    The firm designates certain interest rate swap contracts as fair
    value hedges. These interest rate swap contracts hedge changes
    in the relevant benchmark interest

159

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

rate (e.g., London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR)),
    effectively converting a substantial portion of the firm s
    unsecured
     long-term 
    and certain unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings into floating rate obligations. See Note 2 for
    information regarding the firm s accounting policy for
    foreign currency forward contracts used to hedge its net
    investment in
     non-U.S. operations. 

The firm applies a
     long-haul 
    method to all of its hedge accounting relationships to perform
    an ongoing assessment of the effectiveness of these
    relationships in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or
    offsetting cash flows attributable to the risk being hedged. The
    firm utilizes a
     dollar-offset 
    method, which compares the change in the fair value of the
    hedging instrument to the change in the fair value of the hedged
    item, excluding the effect of the passage of time, to
    prospectively and retrospectively assess hedge effectiveness.
    The firm s prospective
     dollar-offset 
    assessment utilizes scenario analyses to test hedge
    effectiveness via simulations of numerous parallel and slope
    shifts of the relevant yield curve. Parallel shifts change the
    interest rate of all maturities by identical amounts. Slope
    shifts change the curvature of the yield curve. For both the
    prospective assessment, in response to each of the simulated
    yield curve shifts, and the retrospective assessment, a hedging
    relationship is deemed to be effective if the fair value of the
    hedging instrument and the hedged item change inversely within a
    range of 80% to 125%.

For fair value hedges, gains or losses on derivative
    transactions are recognized in  Interest expense  in
    the consolidated statements of earnings. The change in fair
    value of the hedged item attributable to the risk being hedged
    is reported as an adjustment to its carrying value and is
    subsequently amortized into interest expense over its remaining
    life. Gains or losses related to hedge ineffectiveness for all
    hedges are generally included in  Interest expense. 
    These gains or losses and the component of gains or losses on
    derivative transactions excluded from the assessment of hedge
    effectiveness (e.g., the effect of the passage of time on
    fair value hedges of the firm s borrowings) were not
    material to the firm s results of operations for the years
    ended November 2008, November 2007 and
    November 2006. Gains and losses on derivatives used for
    trading purposes are included in  Trading and principal
    investments  in the consolidated statements of earnings.

The fair value of the firm s derivative contracts is
    reflected net of cash paid or received pursuant to credit
    support agreements and is reported on a
     net-by-counterparty 
    basis in the firm s consolidated statements of financial
    condition when management believes a legal right of setoff
    exists under an enforceable netting agreement. The fair value of
    derivative financial instruments, presented in accordance with
    the firm s netting policy, is set forth below:

(1)   

Represents the netting of
    receivable balances with payable balances for the same
    counterparty across contract types pursuant to legally
    enforceable netting agreements.

(2)   

Represents the netting of cash
    collateral received and posted on a counterparty basis pursuant
    to credit support agreements.

160

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The fair value of derivatives accounted for as qualifying hedges
    under SFAS No. 133 consisted of $20.40 billion
    and $5.15 billion in assets as of November 2008 and
    November 2007, respectively, and $128 million and
    $355 million in liabilities as of November 2008 and
    November 2007, respectively.

The firm also has embedded derivatives that have been bifurcated
    from related borrowings under SFAS No. 133. Such
    derivatives, which are classified in unsecured
     short-term 
    and unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings, had a carrying value of $(774) million and
    $463 million (excluding the debt host contract) as of
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively. See
    Notes 6 and 7 for further information regarding the
    firm s unsecured borrowings.

The firm enters into various derivative transactions that are
    considered credit derivatives under FSP No.
     FAS 133-1 
    and
     FIN 45-4. 
    The firm s written and purchased credit derivatives include
    credit default swaps, credit spread options, credit index
    products and total return swaps. As of November 2008, the
    firm s written and purchased credit derivatives had total
    gross notional amounts of $3.78 trillion and
    $4.03 trillion, respectively, for total net purchased
    protection of $255.24 billion in notional value.

The following table sets forth certain information related to
    the firm s credit derivatives. Fair values in the table
    below exclude the effects of both netting under enforceable
    netting agreements and netting of cash paid pursuant to credit
    support agreements, and therefore are not representative of the
    firm s net exposure.

(1)  

Offsetting purchased credit derivatives represent the notional
    amount of purchased credit derivatives to the extent they hedge
    written credit derivatives with identical underlyings.

(2)  

Comprised of purchased protection in excess of the amount of
    written protection on identical underlyings and purchased
    protection on other underlyings on which the firm has not
    written protection.

(3)  

Credit spread on the underlying, together with the period of
    expiration, are indicators of payment/performance risk. For
    example, the firm is least likely to pay or otherwise be
    required to perform where the credit spread on the underlying is
      0-250  
    basis points and the period of expiration is  0-5
    Years.  The likelihood of payment or performance is
    generally greater as the credit spread on the underlying and
    period of expiration increase.

(4)  

Includes a maximum payout/notional amount for written credit
    derivatives of $208.44 billion expiring within one year as
    of November 2008.

(5)  

This liability excludes the effects of both netting under
    enforceable netting agreements and netting of cash collateral
    paid pursuant to credit support agreements. Including the
    effects of netting receivable balances with payable balances for
    the same counterparty pursuant to enforceable netting
    agreements, the firm s net liability related to credit
    derivatives in the firm s statement of financial condition
    as of November 2008 was $33.76 billion. This net
    amount excludes the netting of cash collateral paid pursuant to
    credit support agreements.

161

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Collateralized
    Transactions   

The firm receives financial instruments as collateral, primarily
    in connection with resale agreements, securities borrowed,
    derivative transactions and customer margin loans. Such
    financial instruments may include obligations of the
    U.S. government, federal agencies, sovereigns and
    corporations, as well as equities and convertibles.

In many cases, the firm is permitted to deliver or repledge
    these financial instruments in connection with entering into
    repurchase agreements, securities lending agreements and other
    secured financings, collateralizing derivative transactions and
    meeting firm or customer settlement requirements. As of
    November 2008 and November 2007, the fair value of
    financial instruments received as collateral by the firm that it
    was permitted to deliver or repledge was $578.72 billion
    and $891.05 billion, respectively, of which the firm
    delivered or repledged $445.11 billion and
    $785.62 billion, respectively.

The firm also pledges assets that it owns to counterparties who
    may or may not have the right to deliver or repledge them.
    Trading assets pledged to counterparties that have the right to
    deliver or repledge are included in  Trading assets, at
    fair value  in the consolidated statements of financial
    condition and were $26.31 billion and $46.14 billion
    as of November 2008 and November 2007, respectively.
    Trading assets, pledged in connection with repurchase
    agreements, securities lending agreements and other secured
    financings to counterparties that did not have the right to sell
    or repledge are included in  Trading assets, at fair
    value  in the consolidated statements of financial
    condition and were $80.85 billion and $156.92 billion
    as of November 2008 and November 2007, respectively.
    Other assets (primarily real estate and cash) owned and pledged
    in connection with other secured financings to counterparties
    that did not have the right to sell or repledge were
    $9.24 billion and $5.86 billion as of
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively.

In addition to repurchase agreements and securities lending
    agreements, the firm obtains secured funding through the use of
    other arrangements. Other secured financings include
    arrangements that are nonrecourse, that is, only the subsidiary
    that executed the arrangement or a subsidiary guaranteeing the
    arrangement is obligated to repay the financing. Other secured
    financings consist of liabilities related to the firm s
    William Street program, consolidated VIEs, collateralized
    central bank financings, transfers of financial assets that are
    accounted for as financings rather than sales under
    SFAS No. 140 (primarily pledged bank loans and
    mortgage whole loans) and other structured financing
    arrangements.

162

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Other secured financings by maturity are set forth in the table
    below:

(1)   

As of November 2008, consists
    of
     U.S. dollar-denominated 
    financings of $12.53 billion with a weighted average
    interest rate of 2.98% and
     non-U.S. dollar-denominated 
    financings of $8.70 billion with a weighted average
    interest rate of 0.95%, after giving effect to hedging
    activities. As of November 2007, consists of
     U.S. dollar-denominated 
    financings of $18.47 billion with a weighted average
    interest rate of 5.32% and
     non-U.S. dollar-denominated 
    financings of $13.94 billion with a weighted average
    interest rate of 0.91%, after giving effect to hedging
    activities. The weighted average interest rates as of
    November 2008 and November 2007 excluded financial
    instruments accounted for at fair value under
    SFAS No. 159.

(2)   

Includes other secured financings
    maturing within one year of the financial statement date and
    other secured financings that are redeemable within one year of
    the financial statement date at the option of the holder.

(3)   

As of November 2008, consists
    of
     U.S. dollar-denominated 
    financings of $9.55 billion with a weighted average
    interest rate of 4.62% and
     non-U.S. dollar-denominated 
    financings of $7.91 billion with a weighted average
    interest rate of 4.39%, after giving effect to hedging
    activities. As of November 2007, consists of
     U.S. dollar-denominated 
    financings of $22.13 billion with a weighted average
    interest rate of 5.73% and
     non-U.S. dollar-denominated 
    financings of $11.17 billion with a weighted average
    interest rate of 4.28%, after giving effect to hedging
    activities. The weighted average interest rates as of
    November 2008 and November 2007 excluded financial
    instruments accounted for at fair value under
    SFAS No. 159.

(4)   

Secured
     long-term 
    financings that are repayable prior to maturity at the option of
    the firm are reflected at their contractual maturity dates.
    Secured
     long-term 
    financings that are redeemable prior to maturity at the option
    of the holder are reflected at the dates such options become
    exercisable.

(5)   

As of November 2008,
    $31.54 billion of these financings were collateralized by
    financial instruments and $7.14 billion by other assets
    (primarily real estate and cash). As of November 2007,
    $61.34 billion of these financings were collateralized by
    financial instruments and $4.37 billion by other assets
    (primarily real estate and cash). Other secured financings
    include $13.74 billion and $25.37 billion of
    nonrecourse obligations as of November 2008 and
    November 2007, respectively.

Note 4.    

Securitization
    Activities and Variable Interest Entities  

Securitization
    Activities   

The firm securitizes commercial and residential mortgages, home
    equity and auto loans, government and corporate bonds and other
    types of financial assets. The firm acts as underwriter of the
    beneficial interests that are sold to investors. The firm
    derecognizes financial assets transferred in securitizations,
    provided it has relinquished control over such assets.
    Transferred assets are accounted for at fair value prior to
    securitization. Net revenues related to these underwriting
    activities are recognized in connection with the sales of the
    underlying beneficial interests to investors.

163

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The firm may retain interests in securitized financial assets,
    primarily in the form of senior or subordinated securities,
    including residual interests. Retained interests are accounted
    for at fair value and are included in  Trading assets, at
    fair value  in the consolidated statements of financial
    condition.

The following table sets forth the amount of financial assets
    the firm securitized, as well as cash flows received on retained
    interests:

(1)   

Primarily in connection with
    collateralized loan obligations (CLOs).

(2)   

Primarily in connection with CDOs
    and CLOs.

As of November 2008 and November 2007, the firm held
    $1.78 billion and $4.57 billion of retained interests,
    respectively, from securitization activities, including
    $1.53 billion and $2.72 billion, respectively, held in
    QSPEs.

The following table sets forth the weighted average key economic
    assumptions used in measuring the fair value of the firm s
    retained interests and the sensitivity of this fair value to
    immediate adverse changes of 10% and 20% in those assumptions:

(1)  

Constant prepayment rate is included only for positions for
    which constant prepayment rate is a key assumption in the
    determination of fair value.

(2)  

Anticipated credit losses are computed only on positions for
    which expected credit loss is a key assumption in the
    determination of fair value or positions for which expected
    credit loss is not reflected within the discount rate.

(3)  

The impacts of adverse change take into account credit mitigants
    incorporated in the retained interests, including
     over-collateralization 
    and subordination provisions.

(4)  

Includes $192 million and $905 million as of
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively, of
    retained interests related to transfers of securitized assets
    that were accounted for as secured financings rather than sales
    under SFAS No. 140.

164

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The preceding table does not give effect to the offsetting
    benefit of other financial instruments that are held to mitigate
    risks inherent in these retained interests. Changes in fair
    value based on an adverse variation in assumptions generally
    cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in
    assumptions to the change in fair value is not usually linear.
    In addition, the impact of a change in a particular assumption
    is calculated independently of changes in any other assumption.
    In practice, simultaneous changes in assumptions might magnify
    or counteract the sensitivities disclosed above.

In addition to the retained interests described above, the firm
    also held interests in residential mortgage QSPEs purchased in
    connection with secondary
     market-making 
    activities. These purchased interests were approximately
    $4 billion and $6 billion as of November 2008 and
    November 2007, respectively.

As of November 2008 and November 2007, the firm held
    mortgage servicing rights with a fair value of $147 million
    and $93 million, respectively. These servicing assets
    represent the firm s right to receive a future stream of
    cash flows, such as servicing fees, in excess of the firm s
    obligation to service residential mortgages. The fair value of
    mortgage servicing rights will fluctuate in response to changes
    in certain economic variables, such as discount rates and loan
    prepayment rates. The firm estimates the fair value of mortgage
    servicing rights by using valuation models that incorporate
    these variables in quantifying anticipated cash flows related to
    servicing activities. Mortgage servicing rights are included in
     Trading assets, at fair value  in the consolidated
    statements of financial condition and are classified within
    level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The following table
    sets forth changes in the firm s mortgage servicing rights,
    as well as servicing fees earned:

Year Ended 

November 2008 

(in millions)

Balance, beginning of year

$

93

Purchases  (1) 

272

Servicing assets that resulted from transfers of financial assets

3

Changes in fair value due to changes in valuation inputs and
    assumptions

(221

)

Balance, end of
    year  (2) 

$

147

Contractually specified servicing fees

$

315

(1)   

Primarily related to the
    acquisition of Litton Loan Servicing LP.

(2)   

As of November 2008, the fair
    value was estimated using a weighted average discount rate of
    approximately 16% and a weighted average prepayment rate of
    approximately 27%.

165

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Variable
    Interest Entities (VIEs)   

The firm, in the ordinary course of business, retains interests
    in VIEs in connection with its securitization activities. The
    firm also purchases and sells variable interests in VIEs, which
    primarily issue
     mortgage-backed 
    and other
     asset-backed 
    securities, CDOs and CLOs, in connection with its
     market-making 
    activities and makes investments in and loans to VIEs that hold
    performing and nonperforming debt, equity, real estate,
    power-related and other assets. In addition, the firm utilizes
    VIEs to provide investors with principal-protected notes,
     credit-linked 
    notes and
     asset-repackaged 
    notes designed to meet their objectives.

VIEs generally purchase assets by issuing debt and equity
    instruments. In certain instances, the firm provides guarantees
    to VIEs or holders of variable interests in VIEs. In such cases,
    the maximum exposure to loss included in the tables set forth
    below is the notional amount of such guarantees. Such amounts do
    not represent anticipated losses in connection with these
    guarantees.

The firm s variable interests in VIEs include senior and
    subordinated debt; loan commitments; limited and general
    partnership interests; preferred and common stock; interest
    rate, foreign currency, equity, commodity and credit
    derivatives; guarantees; and residual interests in
     mortgage-backed 
    and
     asset-backed 
    securitization vehicles, CDOs and CLOs. The firm s exposure
    to the obligations of VIEs is generally limited to its interests
    in these entities.

166

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following tables set forth total assets in nonconsolidated
    VIEs in which the firm holds significant variable interests and
    the firm s maximum exposure to loss excluding the benefit
    of offsetting financial instruments that are held to mitigate
    the risks associated with these variable interests. The firm has
    aggregated nonconsolidated VIEs based on principal business
    activity, as reflected in the first column. The nature of the
    firm s variable interests can take different forms, as
    described in the columns under maximum exposure to loss.

(1)  

Such amounts do not represent the anticipated losses in
    connection with these transactions as they exclude the effect of
    offsetting financial instruments that are held to mitigate these
    risks.

(2)  

The firm obtains interests in these VIEs in connection with
    making investments in real estate, distressed loans and other
    types of debt, mezzanine instruments and equities.

(3)  

Consists of
     out-of-the-money 
    written put options that provide principal protection to clients
    invested in various fund products, with risk to the firm
    mitigated through portfolio rebalancing.

(4)  

Primarily consists of written protection on
     investment-grade, 
     short-term 
    collateral held by VIEs that have issued CDOs.

(5)  

Primarily consists of total return swaps on CDOs and CLOs. The
    firm has generally transferred the risks related to the
    underlying securities through derivatives with
     non-VIEs. 

167

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table sets forth the firm s total assets and
    maximum exposure to loss excluding the benefit of offsetting
    financial instruments that are held to mitigate the risks
    associated with its significant variable interests in
    consolidated VIEs where the firm does not hold a majority voting
    interest. The firm has aggregated consolidated VIEs based on
    principal business activity, as reflected in the first column.

(1)   

Consolidated VIE assets include
    assets financed on a nonrecourse basis.

(2)   

Such amounts do not represent the
    anticipated losses in connection with these transactions as they
    exclude the effect of offsetting financial instruments that are
    held to mitigate these risks.

The firm did not have
     off-balance-sheet 
    commitments to purchase or finance any CDOs held by structured
    investment vehicles as of November 2008 or
    November 2007.

Note 5.    

Deposits  

The following table sets forth deposits as of November 2008
    and November 2007:

(1)   

Substantially all
    U.S. deposits were interest-bearing and were held at GS
    Bank USA.

(2)   

All
     non-U.S. deposits 
    were interest-bearing and were primarily held at Goldman Sachs
    Bank (Europe) PLC (GS Bank Europe).

168

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Included in the above table are time deposits of
    $8.49 billion and $463 million, as of
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively. The
    following table sets forth the maturities of time deposits as of
    November 2008:

Note 6.    

Short-Term 
    Borrowings  

As of November 2008,
     short-term 
    borrowings were $73.89 billion, comprised of
    $21.23 billion included in  Other secured
    financings  in the consolidated statement of financial
    condition and $52.66 billion of unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings. As of November 2007,
     short-term 
    borrowings were $103.97 billion, comprised of
    $32.41 billion included in  Other secured
    financings  in the consolidated statement of financial
    condition and $71.56 billion of unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings. See Note 3 for information on other secured
    financings.

Unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings include the portion of unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings maturing within one year of the financial statement
    date and unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings that are redeemable within one year of the financial
    statement date at the option of the holder. The firm accounts
    for promissory notes, commercial paper and certain hybrid
    financial instruments at fair value under SFAS No. 155
    or SFAS No. 159.
     Short-term 
    borrowings that are not recorded at fair value are recorded
    based on the amount of cash received plus accrued interest, and
    such amounts approximate fair value due to the
     short-term 
    nature of the obligations.

Unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings are set forth below:

169

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 7.    

Long-Term 
    Borrowings  

As of November 2008,
     long-term 
    borrowings were $185.68 billion, comprised of
    $17.46 billion included in  Other secured
    financings  in the consolidated statements of financial
    condition and $168.22 billion of unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings. As of November 2007,
     long-term 
    borrowings were $197.47 billion, comprised of
    $33.30 billion included in  Other secured
    financings  in the consolidated statements of financial
    condition and $164.17 billion of unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings. See Note 3 for information on other secured
    financings.

The firm s unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings extend through 2043 and consist principally of senior
    borrowings.

Unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings issued by Group Inc. and its subsidiaries are set
    forth below:

170

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings by maturity date are set forth below:

(1)   

Unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings maturing within one year of the financial statement
    date and certain unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings that are redeemable within one year of the financial
    statement date at the option of the holder are included as
    unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings in the consolidated statements of financial condition.

(2)   

Unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings that are repayable prior to maturity at the option of
    the firm are reflected at their contractual maturity dates.
    Unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings that are redeemable prior to maturity at the option
    of the holder are reflected at the dates such options become
    exercisable.

The firm enters into derivative contracts to effectively convert
    a substantial portion of its unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings which are not accounted for at fair value into
     U.S. dollar-based 
    floating rate obligations. Accordingly, excluding the cumulative
    impact of changes in the firm s credit spreads, the
    carrying value of unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings approximated fair value as of November 2008 and
    November 2007. For unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings for which the firm did not elect the fair value
    option, the cumulative impact due to the widening of the
    firm s own credit spreads was a reduction in the fair value
    of total unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings of approximately 9% and 1% as of November 2008
    and November 2007, respectively.

The effective weighted average interest rates for unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings are set forth below:

(1)   

Includes fixed rate obligations
    that have been converted into floating rate obligations through
    derivative contracts.

(2)   

The weighted average interest rates
    as of November 2008 and November 2007 excluded
    financial instruments accounted for at fair value under
    SFAS No. 155 or SFAS No. 159.

171

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Subordinated
    Borrowings   

As of November 2008, unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings were comprised of subordinated borrowings with
    outstanding principal amounts of $19.26 billion as set
    forth below, of which $18.79 billion has been issued by
    Group Inc. As of November 2007, unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings were comprised of subordinated borrowings with
    outstanding principal amounts of $16.32 billion as set
    forth below, of which $16.00 billion has been issued by
    Group Inc.

Junior Subordinated Debt Issued to Trusts in Connection with
     Fixed-to-Floating 
    and Floating Rate Normal Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital
    Securities.   In 2007, Group Inc. issued a total of
    $2.25 billion of remarketable junior subordinated debt to
    Goldman Sachs Capital II and Goldman Sachs Capital III (APEX
    Trusts), Delaware statutory trusts that, in turn, issued
    $2.25 billion of guaranteed perpetual Automatic Preferred
    Enhanced Capital Securities (APEX) to third parties and a de
    minimis amount of common securities to Group Inc. Group Inc.
    also entered into contracts with the APEX Trusts to sell
    $2.25 billion of perpetual
     non-cumulative 
    preferred stock to be issued by Group Inc. (the stock purchase
    contracts). The APEX Trusts are wholly owned finance
    subsidiaries of the firm for regulatory and legal purposes but
    are not consolidated for accounting purposes.

The firm pays interest
     semi-annually 
    on $1.75 billion of junior subordinated debt issued to
    Goldman Sachs Capital II at a fixed annual rate of 5.59% and the
    debt matures on June 1, 2043. The firm pays interest
    quarterly on $500 million of junior subordinated debt
    issued to Goldman Sachs Capital III at a rate per annum equal to
     three-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.57% and the debt matures on
    September 1, 2043. In addition, the firm makes
    contract payments at a rate of 0.20% per annum on the stock
    purchase contracts held by the APEX Trusts. The firm has the
    right to defer payments on the junior subordinated debt and the
    stock purchase contracts, subject to limitations, and therefore
    cause payment on the APEX to be deferred. During any such
    extension period, the firm will not be permitted to, among other
    things, pay dividends on or make certain repurchases of its
    common or preferred stock. The junior subordinated debt is
    junior in right of payment to all of Group Inc. s senior
    indebtedness and all of Group Inc. s other subordinated
    borrowings.

In connection with the APEX issuance, the firm covenanted in
    favor of certain of its debtholders, who are initially the
    holders of Group Inc. s 6.345% Junior Subordinated
    Debentures due February 15, 2034, that, subject to
    certain exceptions, the firm would not redeem or purchase
    (i) Group Inc. s junior subordinated debt issued to
    the APEX Trusts prior to the applicable stock purchase date or
    (ii) APEX or shares of Group Inc. s Series E or
    Series F Preferred Stock prior to the date that is ten
    years after the applicable stock purchase date, unless the
    applicable redemption or purchase price does not exceed a
    maximum amount determined by reference to the aggregate amount
    of net cash proceeds that the firm has received from the sale of
    qualifying equity securities during the
     180-day 
    period preceding the redemption or purchase.

The firm has accounted for the stock purchase contracts as
    equity instruments under EITF Issue
     No. 00-19, 
     Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed
    to, and Potentially Settled in, a Company s Own
    Stock,  and, accordingly, recorded the cost of the stock
    purchase contracts as a reduction to additional
     paid-in 
    capital. See Note 9 for information on the preferred stock
    that Group Inc. will issue in connection with the stock purchase
    contracts.

Junior Subordinated Debt Issued to a Trust in Connection with
    Trust Preferred Securities.   Group Inc.
    issued $2.84 billion of junior subordinated debentures in
    2004 to Goldman Sachs Capital I (Trust), a Delaware statutory
    trust that, in turn, issued $2.75 billion of guaranteed
    preferred beneficial interests to third parties and
    $85 million of common beneficial interests to Group Inc.
    and invested the proceeds from the sale in junior subordinated
    debentures issued by Group Inc. The Trust is a wholly

172

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

owned finance subsidiary of the firm for regulatory and legal
    purposes but is not consolidated for accounting purposes.

The firm pays interest
     semi-annually 
    on these debentures at an annual rate of 6.345% and the
    debentures mature on February 15, 2034. The coupon
    rate and the payment dates applicable to the beneficial
    interests are the same as the interest rate and payment dates
    applicable to the debentures. The firm has the right, from time
    to time, to defer payment of interest on the debentures, and,
    therefore, cause payment on the Trust s preferred
    beneficial interests to be deferred, in each case up to ten
    consecutive
     semi-annual 
    periods. During any such extension period, the firm will not be
    permitted to, among other things, pay dividends on or make
    certain repurchases of its common stock. The Trust is not
    permitted to pay any distributions on the common beneficial
    interests held by Group Inc. unless all dividends payable on the
    preferred beneficial interests have been paid in full. These
    debentures are junior in right of payment to all of Group
    Inc. s senior indebtedness and all of Group Inc. s
    subordinated borrowings, other than the junior subordinated debt
    issued in connection with the Normal Automatic Preferred
    Enhanced Capital Securities.

Subordinated Debt.   As of November 2008,
    the firm had $14.17 billion of other subordinated debt
    outstanding, of which $13.70 billion has been issued by
    Group Inc., with maturities ranging from fiscal 2009 to 2038.
    The effective weighted average interest rate on this debt was
    1.99%, after giving effect to derivative contracts used to
    convert fixed rate obligations into floating rate obligations.
    As of November 2007, the firm had $11.23 billion of
    other subordinated debt outstanding, of which
    $10.91 billion has been issued by Group Inc., with
    maturities ranging from fiscal 2009 to 2037. The effective
    weighted average interest rate on this debt was 5.75%, after
    giving effect to derivative contracts used to convert fixed rate
    obligations into floating rate obligations. This debt is junior
    in right of payment to all of the firm s senior
    indebtedness.

Note 8.    

Commitments,
    Contingencies and Guarantees  

Commitments   

Forward Starting Collateralized Agreements and
    Financings.   The firm had forward starting resale
    agreements and securities borrowing agreements of
    $61.46 billion and $28.14 billion as of
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively. The
    firm had forward starting repurchase agreements and securities
    lending agreements of $6.95 billion and $15.39 billion
    as of November 2008 and November 2007, respectively.

Commitments to Extend Credit.   In connection
    with its lending activities, the firm had outstanding
    commitments to extend credit of $41.04 billion and
    $82.75 billion as of November 2008 and
    November 2007, respectively. The firm s commitments to
    extend credit are agreements to lend to counterparties that have
    fixed termination dates and are contingent on the satisfaction
    of all conditions to borrowing set forth in the contract. Since
    these commitments may expire unused or be reduced or cancelled
    at the counterparty s request, the total commitment amount
    does not necessarily reflect the actual future cash flow
    requirements. The firm accounts for these commitments at fair
    value. To the extent that the firm recognizes losses on these
    commitments, such losses are recorded within the firm s
    Trading and Principal Investments segment net of any related
    underwriting fees.

173

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table summarizes the firm s commitments to
    extend credit, net of amounts syndicated to third parties, as of
    November 2008 and November 2007:

Commercial lending commitments.   The
    firm s commercial lending commitments are generally
    extended in connection with contingent acquisition financing and
    other types of corporate lending as well as commercial real
    estate financing. The total commitment amount does not
    necessarily reflect the actual future cash flow requirements, as
    the firm may syndicate all or substantial portions of these
    commitments in the future, the commitments may expire unused, or
    the commitments may be cancelled or reduced at the request of
    the counterparty. In addition, commitments that are extended for
    contingent acquisition financing are often intended to be
     short-term 
    in nature, as borrowers often seek to replace them with other
    funding sources.

Included within
     non-investment-grade 
    commitments as of November 2008 was $2.07 billion of
    exposure to leveraged lending capital market transactions,
    $164 million related to commercial real estate transactions
    and $7.09 billion arising from other unfunded credit
    facilities. Included within the
     non-investment-grade 
    amount as of November 2007 was $26.09 billion of
    exposure to leveraged lending capital market transactions,
    $3.50 billion related to commercial real estate
    transactions and $12.34 billion arising from other unfunded
    credit facilities. Including funded loans, the firm s total
    exposure to leveraged lending capital market transactions was
    $7.97 billion and $43.06 billion as of
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively.

William Street program.   Substantially all of
    the commitments provided under the William Street credit
    extension program are to
     investment-grade 
    corporate borrowers. Commitments under the program are
    principally extended by William Street Commitment Corporation
    (Commitment Corp.), a consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of GS
    Bank USA, and also by William Street Credit Corporation, GS Bank
    USA or Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. The commitments
    extended by Commitment Corp. are supported, in part, by funding
    raised by William Street Funding Corporation (Funding Corp.),
    another consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of GS Bank USA. The
    assets and liabilities of Commitment Corp. and Funding Corp. are
    legally separated from other assets and liabilities of the firm.
    The assets of Commitment Corp. and of Funding Corp. will not be
    available to their respective shareholders until the claims of
    their respective creditors have been paid. In addition, no
    affiliate of either Commitment Corp. or Funding Corp., except in
    limited cases as expressly agreed in writing, is responsible for
    any obligation of either entity. With respect to most of the
    William Street commitments, Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group,
    Inc. (SMFG) provides the firm with credit loss protection that
    is generally limited to 95% of the first loss the firm realizes
    on approved loan commitments, up to a maximum of
    $1.00 billion. In addition, subject to the satisfaction of
    certain conditions, upon the firm s request, SMFG will
    provide protection for 70% of additional losses on such
    commitments, up to a maximum of $1.13 billion, of which
    $375 million of protection has been provided as of
    November 2008. The firm also uses other financial
    instruments to mitigate credit risks related to certain William
    Street commitments not covered by SMFG.

174

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Warehouse financing.   The firm provides
    financing for the warehousing of financial assets. These
    arrangements are secured by the warehoused assets, primarily
    consisting of commercial mortgages as of November 2008 and
    corporate bank loans and commercial mortgages as of
    November 2007.

Letters of Credit.   The firm provides letters
    of credit issued by various banks to counterparties in lieu of
    securities or cash to satisfy various collateral and margin
    deposit requirements. Letters of credit outstanding were
    $7.25 billion and $8.75 billion as of
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively.

Investment Commitments.   In connection with its
    merchant banking and other investing activities, the firm
    invests in private equity, real estate and other assets directly
    and through funds that it raises and manages. In connection with
    these activities, the firm had commitments to invest up to
    $14.27 billion and $17.76 billion as of
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively,
    including $12.25 billion and $12.32 billion,
    respectively, of commitments to invest in funds managed by the
    firm.

Construction-Related 
    Commitments.   As of November 2008 and
    November 2007, the firm had
     construction-related 
    commitments of $483 million and $769 million,
    respectively, including commitments of $388 million and
    $642 million as of November 2008 and
    November 2007, respectively, related to the firm s new
    headquarters in New York City, which is expected to cost between
    $2.1 billion and $2.3 billion. The firm has partially
    financed this construction project with $1.65 billion of
     tax-exempt 
    Liberty Bonds.

Underwriting Commitments.   As of
    November 2008 and November 2007, the firm had
    commitments to purchase $241 million and $88 million,
    respectively, of securities in connection with its underwriting
    activities.

Other.   The firm had other purchase commitments
    of $260 million as of November 2008 and
    $1.76 billion (including a $1.34 billion commitment
    for the acquisition of Litton Loan Servicing LP) as of
    November 2007.

Leases.   The firm has contractual obligations
    under
     long-term 
    noncancelable lease agreements, principally for office space,
    expiring on various dates through 2069. Certain agreements are
    subject to periodic escalation provisions for increases in real
    estate taxes and other charges. Future minimum rental payments,
    net of minimum sublease rentals are set forth below (in
    millions):

Rent charged to operating expense is set forth below (in
    millions):

175

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Contingencies   

The firm is involved in a number of judicial, regulatory and
    arbitration proceedings concerning matters arising in connection
    with the conduct of its businesses. Management believes, based
    on currently available information, that the results of such
    proceedings, in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse
    effect on the firm s financial condition, but may be
    material to the firm s operating results for any particular
    period, depending, in part, upon the operating results for such
    period. Given the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome
    of the firm s litigation and regulatory matters,
    particularly in cases or proceedings in which substantial or
    indeterminate damages or fines are sought, the firm cannot
    estimate losses or ranges of losses for cases or proceedings
    where there is only a reasonable possibility that a loss may be
    incurred.

In connection with its insurance business, the firm is
    contingently liable to provide guaranteed minimum death and
    income benefits to certain contract holders and has established
    a reserve related to $6.13 billion and $10.84 billion
    of contract holder account balances as of November 2008 and
    November 2007, respectively, for such benefits. The
    weighted average attained age of these contract holders was
    68 years and 67 years as of November 2008 and
    November 2007, respectively. The net amount at risk,
    representing guaranteed minimum death and income benefits in
    excess of contract holder account balances, was
    $2.96 billion and $1.04 billion as of
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively. See
    Note 12 for more information on the firm s insurance
    liabilities.

Guarantees   

The firm enters into various derivative contracts that meet the
    definition of a guarantee under FIN 45,
     Guarantor s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements
    for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of
    Others,  as amended by
     FSP No. FAS 133-1 
    and
     FIN 45-4. 

FIN 45 does not require disclosures about derivative
    contracts if such contracts may be cash settled and the firm has
    no basis to conclude it is probable that the counterparties
    held, at inception, the underlying instruments related to the
    derivative contracts. The firm has concluded that these
    conditions have been met for certain large, internationally
    active commercial and investment bank counterparties and certain
    other counterparties. Accordingly, the firm has not included
    such contracts in the tables below.

The firm, in its capacity as an agency lender, indemnifies most
    of its securities lending customers against losses incurred in
    the event that borrowers do not return securities and the
    collateral held is insufficient to cover the market value of the
    securities borrowed.

In the ordinary course of business, the firm provides other
    financial guarantees of the obligations of third parties
    (e.g., performance bonds, standby letters of credit and
    other guarantees to enable clients to complete transactions and
    merchant banking fund-related guarantees). These guarantees
    represent obligations to make payments to beneficiaries if the
    guaranteed party fails to fulfill its obligation under a
    contractual arrangement with that beneficiary.

176

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

As of November 2008 and November 2007, derivative contracts
    that meet the definition of a guarantee include written equity
    and commodity put options, written currency contracts and
    interest rate caps, floors and swaptions. As of
    November 2007, prior to the adoption of
     FSP No. FAS 133-1 
    and
     FIN 45-4, 
    derivative contracts that met the definition of a guarantee also
    included credit derivatives, such as credit default swaps,
    credit spread options, credit index products and total return
    swaps. See
        Recent 
    Accounting Developments  for further information on
     FSP No. FAS 133-1 
    and
     FIN 45-4 
    and Note 3 for additional information on the firm s
    credit derivatives as of November 2008. The following
    tables set forth certain information about the firm s
    derivative contracts that meet the definition of a guarantee and
    certain other guarantees as of November 2008 and
    November 2007:

(1)   

Such amounts do not represent the
    anticipated losses in connection with these contracts.

(2)   

Because derivative contracts are
    accounted for at fair value, carrying value is considered the
    best indication of payment/performance risk for individual
    contracts. However, the carrying value excludes the effect of a
    legal right of setoff that may exist under an enforceable
    netting agreement and the effect of netting of cash paid
    pursuant to credit support agreements. These derivative
    contracts are risk managed together with derivative contracts
    that are not considered guarantees under FIN 45 and,
    therefore, these amounts do not reflect the firm s overall
    risk related to its derivative activities.

(3)   

Collateral held by the lenders in
    connection with securities lending indemnifications was
    $19.95 billion and $27.49 billion as of
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively. Because
    the contractual nature of these arrangements requires the firm
    to obtain collateral with a market value that exceeds the value
    of the securities on loan from the borrower, there is minimal
    performance risk associated with these guarantees.

(4)   

Includes credit derivatives that
    meet the definition of a guarantee as of November 2007.

(5)   

Excludes cash collateral of
    $2.05 billion related to this obligation.

The firm has established trusts, including Goldman Sachs Capital
    I, II and III, and other entities for the limited purpose of
    issuing securities to third parties, lending the proceeds to the
    firm and entering into contractual arrangements with the firm
    and third parties related to this purpose. See Note 7 for
    information regarding the transactions involving Goldman Sachs
    Capital I, II and III. The firm effectively provides for the
    full and unconditional guarantee of the securities issued by
    these entities, which are not consolidated for accounting
    purposes. Timely payment by the firm of amounts due to these
    entities under the borrowing, preferred stock and related
    contractual arrangements will be sufficient to cover payments
    due on the securities issued by these entities. Management
    believes that it is unlikely that any circumstances will occur,
    such as nonperformance on the part of paying agents or other
    service providers, that would make it necessary for the firm to
    make payments related

177

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

to these entities other than those required under the terms of
    the borrowing, preferred stock and related contractual
    arrangements and in connection with certain expenses incurred by
    these entities.

In the ordinary course of business, the firm indemnifies and
    guarantees certain service providers, such as clearing and
    custody agents, trustees and administrators, against specified
    potential losses in connection with their acting as an agent of,
    or providing services to, the firm or its affiliates. The firm
    also indemnifies some clients against potential losses incurred
    in the event specified
     third-party 
    service providers, including
     sub-custodians 
    and
     third-party 
    brokers, improperly execute transactions. In addition, the firm
    is a member of payment, clearing and settlement networks as well
    as securities exchanges around the world that may require the
    firm to meet the obligations of such networks and exchanges in
    the event of member defaults. In connection with its prime
    brokerage and clearing businesses, the firm agrees to clear and
    settle on behalf of its clients the transactions entered into by
    them with other brokerage firms. The firm s obligations in
    respect of such transactions are secured by the assets in the
    client s account as well as any proceeds received from the
    transactions cleared and settled by the firm on behalf of the
    client. In connection with joint venture investments, the firm
    may issue loan guarantees under which it may be liable in the
    event of fraud, misappropriation, environmental liabilities and
    certain other matters involving the borrower. The firm is unable
    to develop an estimate of the maximum payout under these
    guarantees and indemnifications. However, management believes
    that it is unlikely the firm will have to make any material
    payments under these arrangements, and no liabilities related to
    these guarantees and indemnifications have been recognized in
    the consolidated statements of financial condition as of
    November 2008 and November 2007.

The firm provides representations and warranties to
    counterparties in connection with a variety of commercial
    transactions and occasionally indemnifies them against potential
    losses caused by the breach of those representations and
    warranties. The firm may also provide indemnifications
    protecting against changes in or adverse application of certain
    U.S. tax laws in connection with ordinary-course
    transactions such as securities issuances, borrowings or
    derivatives. In addition, the firm may provide indemnifications
    to some counterparties to protect them in the event additional
    taxes are owed or payments are withheld, due either to a change
    in or an adverse application of certain
     non-U.S. tax 
    laws. These indemnifications generally are standard contractual
    terms and are entered into in the ordinary course of business.
    Generally, there are no stated or notional amounts included in
    these indemnifications, and the contingencies triggering the
    obligation to indemnify are not expected to occur. The firm is
    unable to develop an estimate of the maximum payout under these
    guarantees and indemnifications. However, management believes
    that it is unlikely the firm will have to make any material
    payments under these arrangements, and no liabilities related to
    these arrangements have been recognized in the consolidated
    statements of financial condition as of November 2008 and
    November 2007.

Group Inc. has guaranteed the payment obligations of Goldman,
    Sachs   Co. (GS Co.), GS Bank USA and GS
    Bank Europe, subject to certain exceptions. In
    November 2008, the firm contributed subsidiaries with an
    aggregate of $117.16 billion of assets into GS Bank USA
    (which brought total assets in GS Bank USA to
    $145.06 billion as of November 2008) and Group Inc. agreed
    to guarantee certain losses, including
     credit-related 
    losses, relating to assets held by the contributed entities. In
    connection with this guarantee, Group Inc. also agreed to pledge
    to GS Bank USA certain collateral, including interests in
    subsidiaries and other illiquid assets. In addition, Group Inc.
    guarantees many of the obligations of its other consolidated
    subsidiaries on a
     transaction-by-transaction 
    basis, as negotiated with counterparties. Group Inc. is unable
    to develop an estimate of the maximum payout under its
    subsidiary guarantees; however, because these guaranteed
    obligations are also obligations of consolidated subsidiaries
    included in the tables above, Group Inc. s liabilities as
    guarantor are not separately disclosed.

178

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 9.    

Shareholders 
    Equity  

Common and
    Preferred Equity   

In September 2008, Group Inc. completed a public offering
    of 46.7 million shares of common stock at $123.00 per share
    for proceeds of $5.75 billion.

In October 2008, Group Inc. issued to Berkshire Hathaway
    Inc. and certain affiliates 50,000 shares of 10% Cumulative
    Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series G (Series G
    Preferred Stock), and a five-year warrant to purchase up to
    43.5 million shares of common stock at an exercise price of
    $115.00 per share, for aggregate proceeds of $5.00 billion.
    The allocated carrying values of the warrant and the
    Series G Preferred Stock on the date of issuance (based on
    their relative fair values) were $1.14 billion and
    $3.86 billion, respectively. The warrant is exercisable at
    any time until October 1, 2013 and the number of
    shares of common stock underlying the warrant and the exercise
    price are subject to adjustment for certain dilutive events.

In October 2008, under the U.S. Department of the
    Treasury s (U.S. Treasury) TARP Capital Purchase
    Program, Group Inc. issued to the U.S. Treasury
    10.0 million shares of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual
    Preferred Stock, Series H (Series H Preferred Stock),
    and a
     10-year 
    warrant to purchase up to 12.2 million shares of common
    stock at an exercise price of $122.90 per share, for aggregate
    proceeds of $10.00 billion. The allocated carrying values
    of the warrant and the Series H Preferred Stock on the date
    of issuance (based on their relative fair values) were
    $490 million and $9.51 billion, respectively.
    Cumulative dividends on the Series H Preferred Stock are
    payable at 5% per annum through November 14, 2013 and
    at a rate of 9% per annum thereafter. The Series H
    Preferred Stock will be accreted to the redemption price of
    $10.00 billion over five years. The warrant is exercisable
    at any time until October 28, 2018 and the number of
    shares of common stock underlying the warrant and the exercise
    price are subject to adjustment for certain dilutive events. If,
    on or prior to December 31, 2009, the firm receives
    aggregate gross cash proceeds of at least $10 billion from
    sales of Tier 1 qualifying perpetual preferred stock or
    common stock, the number of shares of common stock issuable upon
    exercise of the warrant will be reduced by
     one-half  of
    the original number of shares of common stock.

Dividends declared per common share were $1.40 in 2008, $1.40 in
    2007, and $1.30 in 2006. On December 15, 2008, the
    Board of Directors of Group Inc. (Board) declared a dividend of
    $0.4666666 per common share to be paid on
    March 26, 2009 to common shareholders of record on
    February 24, 2009. The dividend of $0.4666666 per
    common share is reflective of a four-month period
    (December 2008 through March 2009), due to the change
    in the firm s fiscal year-end. See Note 21 for further
    information regarding the change in the firm s fiscal
    year-end. See below for information regarding restrictions on
    the firm s ability to raise its common stock dividend.

During 2008 and 2007, the firm repurchased 10.5 million and
    41.2 million shares of its common stock at an average cost
    per share of $193.18 and $217.29, for a total cost of
    $2.04 billion and $8.96 billion, respectively. In
    addition, to satisfy minimum statutory employee tax withholding
    requirements related to the delivery of common stock underlying
    restricted stock units, the firm cancelled 6.7 million and
    4.7 million of restricted stock units with a total value of
    $1.31 billion and $929 million in 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

The firm s share repurchase program is intended to help
    maintain the appropriate level of common equity and to
    substantially offset increases in share count over time
    resulting from employee
     share-based 
    compensation. The repurchase program is effected primarily
    through regular
     open-market 
    purchases, the amounts and timing of which are determined
    primarily by the firm s current and projected capital
    positions (i.e., comparisons of the firm s desired
    level of capital to its actual level of capital) but which may
    also be influenced by general market conditions and the

179

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

prevailing price and trading volumes of the firm s common
    stock, in each case subject to the limit imposed under the
    U.S. Treasury s TARP Capital Purchase Program. See
    below for information regarding current restrictions on the
    firm s ability to repurchase common stock.

As of November 2008, the firm had 10.2 million shares
    of perpetual preferred stock issued and outstanding as set forth
    in the following table:

Each share of
     non-cumulative 
    preferred stock issued and outstanding has a par value of $0.01,
    has a liquidation preference of $25,000, is represented by 1,000
    depositary shares and is redeemable at the firm s option,
    subject to the approval of the Board of Governors of the Federal
    Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board), at a redemption price
    equal to $25,000 plus declared and unpaid dividends.

Each share of Series G Preferred Stock issued and
    outstanding has a par value of $0.01, has a liquidation
    preference of $100,000 and is redeemable at the firm s
    option, subject to the approval of the Federal Reserve Board, at
    a redemption price equal to $110,000 plus accrued and unpaid
    dividends.

Each share of Series H Preferred Stock issued and
    outstanding has a par value of $0.01, has a liquidation
    preference of $1,000 and is redeemable at the firm s
    option, subject to the approval of the Federal Reserve Board, at
    a redemption price equal to $1,000 plus accrued and unpaid
    dividends, provided that through November 14, 2011 the
    Series H Preferred Stock is redeemable only in an amount up
    to the aggregate net cash proceeds received from sales of
    Tier 1 qualifying perpetual preferred stock or common
    stock, and only once such sales have resulted in aggregate gross
    proceeds of at least $2.5 billion.

All series of preferred stock are pari passu and have a
    preference over the firm s common stock upon liquidation.
    Dividends on each series of preferred stock, if declared, are
    payable quarterly in arrears. The firm s ability to declare
    or pay dividends on, or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire,
    its common stock is subject to certain restrictions in the event
    that the firm fails to pay or set aside full dividends on the
    preferred stock for the latest completed dividend period. In
    addition, pursuant to the U.S. Treasury s TARP Capital
    Purchase Program, until the earliest of
    October 28, 2011, the redemption of all of the
    Series H Preferred Stock or transfer by the
    U.S. Treasury of all of the Series H Preferred Stock
    to third parties, the firm must obtain the consent of the
    U.S. Treasury to raise the firm s common stock
    dividend or to repurchase any shares of common stock or other
    preferred stock, with certain exceptions (including repurchases
    of shares of common stock under the firm s share repurchase
    program to offset dilution from
     equity-based 
    compensation). For as long as the Series H Preferred Stock
    remains outstanding, due to the limitations pursuant to the U.S.
    Treasury s TARP Capital Purchase Program, the firm will
    repurchase shares of common stock through its share

180

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

repurchase program only for the purpose of offsetting dilution
    from
     equity-based 
    compensation, to the extent permitted.

In 2007, the Board authorized 17,500.1 shares of perpetual
     Non-Cumulative 
    Preferred Stock, Series E, and 5,000.1 shares of
    perpetual
     Non-Cumulative 
    Preferred Stock, Series F, in connection with the APEX
    issuance. See Note 7 for further information on the APEX
    issuance. Under the stock purchase contracts, Group Inc. will
    issue on the relevant stock purchase dates (on or before
    June 1, 2013 and September 1, 2013 for
    Series E and Series F preferred stock, respectively)
    one share of Series E and Series F preferred stock to
    Goldman Sachs Capital II and III, respectively, for each
    $100,000 principal amount of subordinated debt held by these
    trusts. When issued, each share of Series E and
    Series F preferred stock will have a par value of $0.01 and
    a liquidation preference of $100,000 per share. Dividends on
    Series E preferred stock, if declared, will be payable
     semi-annually 
    at a fixed annual rate of 5.79% if the stock is issued prior to
    June 1, 2012 and quarterly thereafter, at a rate per
    annum equal to the greater of
     (i) three-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.77% and (ii) 4.00%. Dividends on Series F
    preferred stock, if declared, will be payable quarterly at a
    rate per annum equal to
     three-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.77% if the stock is issued prior to
    September 1, 2012 and quarterly thereafter, at a rate
    per annum equal to the greater of
     (i) three-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.77% and (ii) 4.00%. The preferred stock may be
    redeemed at the option of the firm on the stock purchase dates
    or any day thereafter, subject to regulatory approval and
    certain covenant restrictions governing the firm s ability
    to redeem or purchase the preferred stock without issuing common
    stock or other instruments with
     equity-like 
    characteristics.

Preferred dividends declared are set forth below:

On December 15, 2008, the Board declared a dividend
    per preferred share of $239.58, $387.50, $255.56, $255.56 and
    $2,500 for Series A, Series B, Series C,
    Series D and Series G preferred stock, respectively,
    to be paid on February 10, 2009 to preferred
    shareholders of record on January 26, 2009. Also on
    December 15, 2008, the Board declared a dividend of
    $14.8611111 per share of Series H preferred stock to be
    paid on February 17, 2009 to preferred shareholders of
    record on January 31, 2009. The total amount of
    preferred stock dividends declared on
    December 15, 2008 was $309 million.

181

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Other
    Comprehensive Income   

The following table sets forth the firm s accumulated other
    comprehensive income/(loss) by type:

(1)    

Consists of net unrealized losses
    of $55 million on
     available-for-sale 
    securities held by the firm s insurance subsidiaries and
    net unrealized gains of $8 million on
     available-for-sale 
    securities held by investees accounted for under the equity
    method as of November 2008. Consists of net unrealized
    gains of $9 million on
     available-for-sale 
    securities held by investees accounted for under the equity
    method and net unrealized losses of $1 million on
     available-for-sale 
    securities held by the firm s insurance subsidiaries as of
    November 2007.

Note 10.    

Earnings
    Per Common Share  

The computations of basic and diluted earnings per common share
    are set forth below:

(1)   

The diluted EPS computations do not
    include the antidilutive effect of restricted stock units
    (RSUs), stock options and warrants as follows:

182

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 11.    

Goodwill
    and Identifiable Intangible Assets  

Goodwill   

The following table sets forth the carrying value of the
    firm s goodwill by operating segment, which is included in
     Other assets  in the consolidated statements of
    financial condition:

(1)   

Primarily related to SLK LLC (SLK).

(2)   

Primarily related to The Ayco
    Company, L.P. (Ayco).

183

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Identifiable
    Intangible Assets   

The following table sets forth the gross carrying amount,
    accumulated amortization and net carrying amount of the
    firm s identifiable intangible assets:

(1)   

Primarily includes the firm s
    clearance and execution and NASDAQ customer lists related to SLK
    and financial counseling customer lists related to Ayco.

(2)   

Consists of VOBA and DAC. VOBA
    represents the present value of estimated future gross profits
    of acquired variable annuity and life insurance businesses. DAC
    results from commissions paid by the firm to the primary insurer
    (ceding company) on life and annuity reinsurance agreements as
    compensation to place the business with the firm and to cover
    the ceding company s acquisition expenses. VOBA and DAC are
    amortized over the estimated life of the underlying contracts
    based on estimated gross profits, and amortization is adjusted
    based on actual experience. The weighted average remaining
    amortization period for VOBA and DAC is seven years as of
    November 2008.

(3)   

Primarily includes
    marketing-related assets and power contracts.

184

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Substantially all of the firm s identifiable intangible
    assets are considered to have finite lives and are amortized
    over their estimated lives. The weighted average remaining life
    of the firm s identifiable intangibles is approximately
    11 years.

The estimated future amortization for existing identifiable
    intangible assets through 2013 is set forth below (in millions):

Note 12.    

Other
    Assets and Other Liabilities  

Other
    Assets   

Other assets are generally less liquid, nonfinancial assets. The
    following table sets forth the firm s other assets by type:

(1)   

Net of accumulated depreciation and
    amortization of $6.55 billion and $5.88 billion as of
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively.

(2)   

See Note 11 for further
    information regarding the firm s goodwill and identifiable
    intangible assets.

(3)   

Excludes investments of
    $3.45 billion and $2.25 billion accounted for at fair
    value under SFAS No. 159 as of November 2008 and
    November 2007, respectively, which are included in
     Trading assets, at fair value  in the consolidated
    statements of financial condition.

185

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Other
    Liabilities   

The following table sets forth the firm s other liabilities
    and accrued expenses by type:

(1)   

Insurance-related liabilities are
    set forth in the table below:

Separate account liabilities are supported by separate account
    assets, representing segregated contract holder funds under
    variable annuity and life insurance contracts. Separate account
    assets are included in  Cash and securities segregated for
    regulatory and other purposes  in the consolidated
    statements of financial condition.

Liabilities for future benefits and unpaid claims include
    liabilities arising from reinsurance provided by the firm to
    other insurers. The firm had a receivable for $1.30 billion
    as of both November 2008 and November 2007, related to
    such reinsurance contracts, which is reported in
     Receivables from customers and counterparties  in the
    consolidated statements of financial condition. In addition, the
    firm has ceded risks to reinsurers related to certain of its
    liabilities for future benefits and unpaid claims and had a
    receivable of $1.20 billion and $785 million as of
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively, related
    to such reinsurance contracts, which is reported in
     Receivables from customers and counterparties  in the
    consolidated statements of financial condition. Contracts to
    cede risks to reinsurers do not relieve the firm from its
    obligations to contract holders. Liabilities for future benefits
    and unpaid claims include $978 million carried at fair
    value under SFAS No. 159.

Reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits
    represent a liability for the expected value of guaranteed
    benefits in excess of projected annuity account balances. These
    reserves are computed in accordance with AICPA
     SOP 03-1 
    and are based on total payments expected to be made less total
    fees expected to be assessed over the life of the contract.

186

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 13.    

Employee
    Benefit Plans  

The firm sponsors various pension plans and certain other
    postretirement benefit plans, primarily healthcare and life
    insurance. The firm also provides certain benefits to former or
    inactive employees prior to retirement.

Defined
    Benefit Pension Plans and Postretirement Plans   

Employees of certain
     non-U.S. subsidiaries 
    participate in various defined benefit pension plans. These
    plans generally provide benefits based on years of credited
    service and a percentage of the employee s eligible
    compensation. The firm maintains a defined benefit pension plan
    for most U.K. employees. As of April 2008, the U.K. defined
    benefit plan was closed to new participants, but will continue
    to accrue benefits for existing participants.

The firm also maintains a defined benefit pension plan for
    substantially all U.S. employees hired prior to
    November 1, 2003. As of November 2004, this plan
    was closed to new participants and frozen such that existing
    participants would not accrue any additional benefits. In
    addition, the firm maintains unfunded postretirement benefit
    plans that provide medical and life insurance for eligible
    retirees and their dependents covered under these programs.

On November 30, 2007, the firm adopted
    SFAS No. 158 which requires an entity to recognize in
    its statement of financial condition the funded status of its
    defined benefit pension and postretirement plans, measured as
    the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the
    benefit obligation. Upon adoption, SFAS No. 158
    requires an entity to recognize previously unrecognized
    actuarial gains and losses, prior service costs, and transition
    obligations and assets within  Accumulated other
    comprehensive income/(loss)  in the consolidated statements
    of changes in shareholders  equity. Additional minimum
    pension liabilities are derecognized upon adoption of the new
    standard.

As a result of adopting SFAS No. 158, the firm
    recorded increases of $59 million and $253 million to
     Other assets  and  Other liabilities and accrued
    expenses,  respectively, and a $194 million loss, net
    of taxes, within  Accumulated other comprehensive
    income/(loss). 

187

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table provides a summary of the changes in the
    plans  benefit obligations and the fair value of assets for
    November 2008 and November 2007 and a statement of the
    funded status of the plans as of November 2008 and
    November 2007:

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit
    pension plans was $769 million and $1.05 billion as of
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively.

For plans in which the accumulated benefit obligation exceeded
    plan assets, the aggregate projected benefit obligation and
    accumulated benefit obligation was $426 million and
    $413 million, respectively, as of November 2008, and
    $722 million and $636 million, respectively, as of

188

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

November 2007. The fair value of plan assets for each of
    these plans was $317 million and $590 million as of
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively.

The components of pension expense/(income) and postretirement
    expense are set forth below:

189

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The weighted average assumptions used to develop the actuarial
    present value of the projected benefit obligation and net
    periodic pension cost are set forth below. These assumptions
    represent a weighted average of the assumptions used for the
    U.S. and
     non-U.S. plans 
    and are based on the economic environment of each applicable
    country.

Generally, the firm determined the discount rates for its
    defined benefit plans by referencing indices for
     long-term, 
     high-quality 
    bonds and ensuring that the discount rate does not exceed the
    yield reported for those indices after adjustment for the
    duration of the plans  liabilities.

The firm s approach in determining the
     long-term 
    rate of return for plan assets is based upon historical
    financial market relationships that have existed over time with
    the presumption that this trend will generally remain constant
    in the future.

For measurement purposes, an annual growth rate in the per
    capita cost of covered healthcare benefits of 9.30% was assumed
    for the year ending November 2009. The rate was assumed to
    decrease ratably to 5.00% for the year ending November 2015
    and remain at that level thereafter.

The assumed cost of healthcare has an effect on the amounts
    reported for the firm s postretirement plans. A 1% change
    in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate would have the
    following effects:

190

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table sets forth the composition of plan assets
    for the U.S. and
     non-U.S. defined 
    benefit pension plans by asset category:

The investment approach of the firm s U.S. and major
     non-U.S. defined 
    benefit pension plans involves employing a sufficient level of
    flexibility to capture investment opportunities as they occur,
    while maintaining reasonable parameters to ensure that prudence
    and care are exercised in the execution of the investment
    programs. The plans employ a total return on investment
    approach, whereby a mix, which is broadly similar to the actual
    asset allocation as of November 2008, of equity securities,
    debt securities and other assets, is targeted to maximize the
     long-term 
    return on assets for a given level of risk. Investment risk is
    measured and monitored on an ongoing basis by the firm s
    Retirement Committee through periodic portfolio reviews,
    meetings with investment managers and annual liability
    measurements.

The firm expects to contribute a minimum of $73 million to
    its pension plans and $13 million to its postretirement
    plans in 2009.

The following table sets forth benefits projected to be paid
    from the firm s U.S. and
     non-U.S. defined 
    benefit pension and postretirement plans (net of Medicare
    subsidy receipts) and reflects expected future service costs,
    where appropriate:

Defined
    Contribution Plans   

The firm contributes to employer-sponsored U.S. and
     non-U.S. defined 
    contribution plans. The firm s contribution to these plans
    was $208 million, $258 million and $230 million
    for the years ended November 2008, November 2007 and
    November 2006, respectively.

191

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 14.    

Employee
    Incentive Plans  

Stock
    Incentive Plan   

The firm sponsors a stock incentive plan, The Goldman Sachs
    Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (Amended SIP), which
    provides for grants of incentive stock options, nonqualified
    stock options, stock appreciation rights, dividend equivalent
    rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, awards with
    performance conditions and other
     share-based 
    awards. In the second quarter of 2003, the Amended SIP was
    approved by the firm s shareholders, effective for grants
    after April 1, 2003.

The total number of shares of common stock that may be issued
    under the Amended SIP through 2008 may not exceed
    250 million shares and, in each year thereafter, may not
    exceed 5% of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock,
    determined as of the last day of the immediately preceding year,
    increased by the number of shares available for awards in
    previous years but not covered by awards granted in such years.
    As of November 2008 and November 2007,
    162.4 million and 160.6 million shares, respectively,
    were available for grant under the Amended SIP.

Other
    Compensation Arrangements   

The firm has maintained deferred compensation plans for eligible
    employees. In general, under the plans, participants were able
    to defer payment of a portion of their cash year-end
    compensation. During the deferral period, participants were able
    to notionally invest their deferrals in certain alternatives
    available under the plans. Generally, under current tax law,
    participants are not subject to income tax on amounts deferred
    or on any notional investment earnings until the returns are
    distributed, and the firm is not entitled to a corresponding tax
    deduction until the amounts are distributed. Beginning with the
    2008 year, these deferred compensation plans were frozen
    with respect to new contributions and the plans were terminated.
    Participants generally will receive distributions of their
    benefits in 2009 except that no payments will be accelerated for
    certain senior executives. The firm has recognized compensation
    expense for the amounts deferred under these plans. As of
    November 2008 and November 2007, $220 million and
    $281 million, respectively, related to these plans was
    included in  Other liabilities and accrued expenses 
    in the consolidated statements of financial condition.

The firm has a discount stock program through which
    Participating Managing Directors may be permitted to acquire
    restricted stock units at an effective 25% discount (for
    2008 year-end compensation, the program was suspended, and
    no individual was permitted to acquire discounted restricted
    stock units thereunder). In prior years, the 25% discount was
    effected by an additional grant of restricted stock units equal
    to  one-third 
    of the number of restricted stock units purchased by qualifying
    participants. The purchased restricted stock units were 100%
    vested when granted, but the shares underlying them generally
    were subject to certain transfer restrictions (which were waived
    in December 2008 except for certain senior executives). The
    shares underlying the restricted stock units that were granted
    to effect the 25% discount generally vest in equal installments
    on the second and third anniversaries following the grant date
    and were not transferable before the third anniversary of the
    grant date (transfer restrictions on vested awards were waived
    in December 2008 except for certain senior executives).
    Compensation expense related to these restricted stock units is
    recognized over the vesting period. The total value of
    restricted stock units granted for 2007 in order to effect the
    25% discount was $66 million.

192

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Restricted
    Stock Units   

The firm issues restricted stock units to employees under the
    Amended SIP, primarily in connection with year-end compensation
    and acquisitions. Restricted stock units are valued based on the
    closing price of the underlying shares at the date of grant.
    Year-end restricted stock units generally vest and deliver as
    outlined in the applicable restricted stock unit agreements. All
    employee restricted stock unit agreements provide that vesting
    is accelerated in certain circumstances, such as upon
    retirement, death and extended absence. Of the total restricted
    stock units outstanding as of November 2008 and
    November 2007, (i) 12.0 million units and
    22.0 million units, respectively, required future service
    as a condition to the delivery of the underlying shares of
    common stock and (ii) 43.9 million units and
    51.6 million units, respectively, did not require future
    service. In all cases, delivery of the underlying shares of
    common stock is conditioned on the grantees satisfying certain
    vesting and other requirements outlined in the award agreements.
    When delivering the underlying shares to employees, the firm
    generally issues new shares of common stock. The activity
    related to these restricted stock units is set forth below:

Stock
    Options   

Stock options granted to employees generally vest as outlined in
    the applicable stock option agreement and generally first become
    exercisable on or after the third anniversary of the grant date.
    Other than the options granted in December 2007 related to
    2007 compensation, no options were granted during fiscal 2008.
    Year-end stock options for 2007 become exercisable in
    January 2011 and expire on November 24, 2017.
    Shares received on exercise prior to January 2013 for
    year-end 2007 options cannot be sold, transferred or otherwise
    disposed of until January 2013. All employee stock option
    agreements provide that vesting is accelerated in certain
    circumstances, such as upon retirement, death and extended
    absence. In general, all stock options expire on the tenth
    anniversary of the grant date, although they may be subject to
    earlier termination or cancellation under certain circumstances
    in accordance with the terms of the Amended SIP and the
    applicable stock option agreement. The dilutive effect of the
    firm s outstanding stock options is included in
     Average common shares outstanding  
    Diluted  on the consolidated statements of earnings.

193

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The activity related to these stock options is set forth below:

(1)   

Includes stock options granted to
    employees in December 2007 as part of compensation for
    fiscal 2007, for which no future service was required.

The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years
    ended November 2008, November 2007 and
    November 2006 was $433 million, $1.32 billion and
    $1.52 billion, respectively.

The options outstanding as of November 2008 are set forth
    below:

The weighted average fair value of options granted for 2007 and
    2006 was $51.04 and $49.96 per option, respectively. Fair value
    was estimated as of the grant date based on a Black-Scholes
    option-pricing model principally using the following weighted
    average assumptions:

194

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The common stock underlying the options granted for 2007 and
    2006 is subject to transfer restrictions for a period of
    2 years and 1 year, respectively, from the date the
    options become exercisable. The value of the common stock
    underlying the options granted for 2007 and 2006 reflects a
    liquidity discount of 24.0% and 17.5%, respectively, as a result
    of these transfer restrictions. The liquidity discount was based
    on the firm s
     pre-determined 
    written liquidity discount policies. The 7.5 years expected
    life of the options reflects the estimated impact of these sales
    restrictions on the life of the awards.

The following table sets forth
     share-based 
    compensation and the related tax benefit:

(1)   

Represents the tax benefit,
    recognized in additional
     paid-in 
    capital, on stock options exercised and the delivery of common
    stock underlying restricted stock units.

As of November 2008, there was $1.25 billion of total
    unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested
     share-based 
    compensation arrangements. This cost is expected to be
    recognized over a weighted average period of 1.84 years.

On December 17, 2008 the firm granted
    20.6 million restricted stock units and 36.0 million
    stock options to its employees. The restricted stock units and
    options require future service and are subject to additional
    vesting conditions as outlined in the award agreements.
    Generally shares underlying RSUs are delivered and stock options
    become exercisable shortly after vesting, but are subject to
    certain transfer restrictions. These grants are not included in
    the above tables.

Note 15.    

Transactions
    with Affiliated Funds  

The firm has formed numerous nonconsolidated investment funds
    with
     third-party 
    investors. The firm generally acts as the investment manager for
    these funds and, as such, is entitled to receive management fees
    and, in certain cases, advisory fees, incentive fees or
    overrides from these funds. These fees amounted to
    $3.14 billion, $3.62 billion and $3.37 billion
    for the years ended November 2008, November 2007 and
    November 2006, respectively. As of November 2008 and
    November 2007, the fees receivable from these funds were
    $861 million and $596 million, respectively.
    Additionally, the firm may invest alongside the
     third-party 
    investors in certain funds. The aggregate carrying value of the
    firm s interests in these funds was $14.45 billion and
    $12.90 billion as of November 2008 and
    November 2007, respectively. In the ordinary course of
    business, the firm may also engage in other activities with
    these funds, including, among others, securities lending, trade
    execution, trading, custody, and acquisition and bridge
    financing. See Note 8 for the firm s commitments
    related to these funds.

195

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The components of the net tax expense reflected in the
    consolidated statements of earnings are set forth below:

Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary
    differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of
    assets and liabilities. These temporary differences result in
    taxable or deductible amounts in future years and are measured
    using the tax rates and laws that will be in effect when such
    differences are expected to reverse.

Significant components of the firm s deferred tax assets
    and liabilities are set forth below:

(1)   

Relates primarily to the ability to
    utilize losses in various tax jurisdictions.

(2)   

Before netting within tax
    jurisdictions.

The firm permanently reinvests eligible earnings of certain
    foreign subsidiaries and, accordingly, does not accrue any
    U.S. income taxes that would arise if such earnings were
    repatriated. As of November 2008, this policy resulted in
    an unrecognized net deferred tax liability of $1.1 billion
    attributable to reinvested earnings of $11.6 billion.

196

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

During 2008, the valuation allowance was decreased by
    $19 million, primarily due to the utilization of net
    operating losses previously considered more likely than not to
    expire unused. Net operating loss carryforwards were
    $2.77 billion and $2.12 billion as of
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively.

The firm had federal net operating loss carryforwards, primarily
    resulting from acquisitions, of $172 million and
    $139 million as of November 2008 and
    November 2007, respectively. The firm recorded a related
    net deferred income tax asset of $56 million and
    $44 million as of November 2008 and
    November 2007, respectively. These carryforwards are
    subject to annual limitations on utilization and will begin to
    expire in 2016.

The firm had state and local net operating loss carryforwards,
    primarily resulting from acquisitions, of $2.59 billion and
    $1.62 billion as of November 2008 and
    November 2007, respectively. The firm recorded a related
    net deferred income tax asset of $97 million and
    $21 million as of November 2008 and
    November 2007, respectively. These carryforwards are
    subject to annual limitations on utilization and will begin to
    expire in 2012.

The firm had foreign net operating loss carryforwards of
    $5 million and $306 million as of November 2008
    and November 2007, respectively. The firm recorded a
    related net deferred income tax asset of $84 million as of
    November 2007. These carryforwards are subject to
    limitation on utilization and can be carried forward
    indefinitely.

The firm had foreign tax credit carryforwards of
    $334 million as of November 2008. These carryforwards
    are subject to limitation on utilization and will begin to
    expire in 2018.

The firm adopted the provisions of FIN 48 as of
    December 1, 2007 and recorded a transition adjustment
    resulting in a reduction of $201 million to beginning
    retained earnings.

The following table sets forth the changes in the firm s
    unrecognized tax benefits from December 1, 2007 to
    November 28, 2008 (in millions):

As of November 2008, the firm s liability for
    unrecognized tax benefits reported in  Other liabilities
    and accrued expenses  in the consolidated statement of
    financial condition was $1.4 billion. The firm reported a
    related deferred tax asset of $625 million in  Other
    assets  in the consolidated statement of financial
    condition. If recognized, the net tax benefit of
    $748 million would reduce the firm s effective income
    tax rate. As of November 2008, the firm s accrued
    liability for interest expense related to income tax matters and
    income tax penalties was $110.9 million. The firm reports
    interest expense related to income tax matters in
     Provision for taxes  in the consolidated statements
    of earnings and income tax penalties in  Other
    expenses  in the consolidated statements of earnings. The
    firm recognized $36.7 million of interest and income tax
    penalties for the year ended November 2008. The firm does
    not expect unrecognized tax benefits to change significantly
    during the twelve months subsequent to
    November 28, 2008.

197

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The firm is subject to examination by the U.S. Internal
    Revenue Service (IRS) and other taxing authorities in
    jurisdictions where the firm has significant business
    operations, such as the United Kingdom, Japan, Hong Kong, Korea
    and various states, such as New York. The tax years under
    examination vary by jurisdiction. The firm does not expect that
    potential additional assessments from these examinations will be
    material to its results of operations.

Below is a table of the earliest tax years that remain subject
    to examination by major jurisdiction:

All years subsequent to the above years remain open to
    examination by the taxing authorities. The firm believes that
    the liability for unrecognized tax benefits it has established
    is adequate in relation to the potential for additional
    assessments. The resolution of tax matters is not expected to
    have a material effect on the firm s financial condition
    but may be material to the firm s operating results for a
    particular period, depending, in part, upon the operating
    results for that period.

A reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory income tax
    rate to the firm s effective income tax rate is set forth
    below:

(1)   

Primarily includes the effect of
    FIN 48 liability increase.

(2)   

Primarily includes the effect of
    audit settlements.

Tax benefits of approximately $645 million in
    November 2008, $908 million in November 2007 and
    $653 million in November 2006, related to the delivery
    of common stock underlying restricted stock units and the
    exercise of options, were credited directly to  Additional
     paid-in 
    capital  in the consolidated statements of financial
    condition and changes in shareholders  equity.

198

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

On September 21, 2008, Group Inc. became a bank
    holding company under the U.S. Bank Holding Company Act of
    1956. As of that date, the Federal Reserve Board became the
    primary U.S. regulator of Group Inc., as a consolidated
    entity. Prior to September 21, 2008, Group Inc. was
    subject to regulation by the SEC as a Consolidated Supervised
    Entity (CSE) and was subject to
     group-wide 
    supervision and examination by the SEC and to minimum capital
    standards on a consolidated basis. On
    September 26, 2008, the SEC announced that it was
    ending the CSE program. The firm s principal
     U.S. broker-dealer, 
    GS Co., remains subject to regulation by the SEC.

The firm is subject to regulatory capital requirements
    administered by the U.S. federal banking agencies. The
    firm s bank depository institution subsidiaries, including
    GS Bank USA, are subject to similar capital guidelines. Under
    the Federal Reserve Board s capital adequacy guidelines and
    the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action (PCA) that
    is applicable to GS Bank USA, the firm and its bank
    depository institution subsidiaries must meet specific capital
    guidelines that involve quantitative measures of assets,
    liabilities and certain off-balance-sheet items as calculated
    under regulatory reporting practices. The firm and its bank
    depository institution subsidiaries  capital amounts, as
    well as GS Bank USA s PCA classification, are also
    subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about
    components, risk weightings and other factors. The firm
    anticipates reporting capital ratios as follows:

Before Group Inc. became a bank holding company, it was subject
    to capital guidelines by the SEC as a CSE that were generally
    consistent with those set out in the Revised Framework for the
    International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital
    Standards issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
    (Basel II). The firm currently computes and reports its
    firmwide capital ratios in accordance with the Basel II
    requirements as applicable to the firm when it was regulated as
    a CSE for the purpose of assessing the adequacy of its capital.
    Under the Basel II framework as it applied to the firm when it
    was regulated as a CSE, the firm evaluates its Tier 1
    Capital and Total Allowable Capital as a percentage of
     Risk-Weighted 
    Assets (RWAs). As of November 2008, the firm s Total
    Capital Ratio (Total Allowable Capital as a percentage of RWAs)
    was 18.9% and the firm s Tier 1 Ratio (Tier 1
    Capital as a percentage of RWAs) was 15.6%, in each case
    calculated under the Basel II framework as it applied to the
    firm when it was regulated as a CSE. The firm expects to
    continue to report to investors for a period of time its
    Basel II capital ratios as applicable to it when it was
    regulated as a CSE.

The regulatory capital guidelines currently applicable to bank
    holding companies are based on the Capital Accord of the Basel
    Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel I), with
    Basel II to be phased in over time. The firm is currently
    working with the Federal Reserve Board to put in place the
    appropriate reporting and compliance mechanisms and
    methodologies to allow reporting of the Basel I capital
    ratios as of the end of March 2009.

In addition, the firm is currently working to implement the
    Basel II framework as applicable to it as a bank holding company
    (as opposed to as a CSE). U.S. banking regulators have
    incorporated the Basel II framework into the existing
     risk-based 
    capital requirements by requiring that internationally active
    banking organizations, such as Group Inc., transition to Basel
    II over the next several years.

199

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The Federal Reserve Board also has established minimum leverage
    ratio guidelines. The firm was not subject to these guidelines
    before becoming a bank holding company and, accordingly, is
    currently working with the Federal Reserve Board to finalize its
    methodology for calculating this ratio. The Tier 1 leverage
    ratio is defined as Tier 1 capital (as applicable to the
    firm as a bank holding company) divided by adjusted average
    total assets (which includes adjustments for disallowed goodwill
    and certain intangible assets). The minimum Tier 1 leverage
    ratio is 3% for bank holding companies that have received the
    highest supervisory rating under Federal Reserve Board
    guidelines or that have implemented the Federal Reserve
    Board s
     risk-based 
    capital measure for market risk. Other bank holding companies
    must have a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. Bank
    holding companies may be expected to maintain ratios well above
    the minimum levels, depending upon their particular condition,
    risk profile and growth plans. As of November 2008, the
    firm s estimated Tier 1 leverage ratio was 6.1%. This
    ratio represents a preliminary estimate and may be revised in
    subsequent filings as the firm continues to work with the
    Federal Reserve Board to finalize the methodology for the
    calculation.

The firm s U.S. regulated
     broker-dealer 
    subsidiaries include GS Co. and Goldman Sachs
    Execution   Clearing, L.P. (GSEC). GS Co. and
    GSEC are registered
     U.S. broker-dealers 
    and futures commission merchants subject to
     Rule 15c3-1 
    of the SEC and Rule 1.17 of the Commodity Futures Trading
    Commission, which specify uniform minimum net capital
    requirements, as defined, for their registrants, and also
    effectively require that a significant part of the
    registrants  assets be kept in relatively liquid form.
    GS Co. and GSEC have elected to compute their minimum
    capital requirements in accordance with the  Alternative
    Net Capital Requirement  as permitted by
     Rule 15c3-1. 
    As of November 2008, GS Co. had regulatory net
    capital, as defined by
     Rule 15c3-1, 
    of $10.92 billion, which exceeded the amounts required by
    $8.87 billion. As of November 2008, GSEC had
    regulatory net capital, as defined by
     Rule 15c3-1, 
    of $1.38 billion, which exceeded the amounts required by
    $1.29 billion. In addition to its alternative minimum net
    capital requirements, GS Co. is also required to hold
    tentative net capital in excess of $1 billion and net
    capital in excess of $500 million in accordance with the
    market and credit risk standards of Appendix E of
     Rule 15c3-1. 
    GS Co. is also required to notify the SEC in the event that
    its tentative net capital is less than $5 billion. As of
    November 2008 and November 2007, GS Co. had
    tentative net capital and net capital in excess of both the
    minimum and the notification requirements.

As of November 2008, GS Bank USA, a New York
    State-chartered bank and a member of the Federal Reserve System
    and the FDIC, is regulated by the Federal Reserve Board and the
    New York State Banking Department and is subject to minimum
    capital requirements that (subject to certain exceptions) are
    similar to those applicable to bank holding companies. GS Bank
    USA was formed in November 2008 through the merger of the
    firm s existing Utah industrial bank (named GS Bank USA)
    into the firm s New York limited purpose trust company,
    with the surviving company taking the name GS Bank USA. As of
    November 2007, GS Bank USA s predecessor was a wholly
    owned industrial bank regulated by the Utah Department of
    Financial Institutions, was a member of the FDIC and was subject
    to minimum capital requirements. The firm computes the capital
    ratios for GS Bank USA in accordance with the Basel I
    framework for purposes of assessing the adequacy of its capital.
    In order to be considered a  well capitalized 
    depository institution under the Federal Reserve Board
    guidelines, GS Bank USA must maintain a Tier 1 capital
    ratio of at least 6%, a total capital ratio of at least 10% and
    a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5%. In connection with
    the November 2008 asset transfer described below, GS Bank USA
    agreed with the Federal Reserve Board to minimum capital ratios
    in excess of these  well capitalized  levels.
    Accordingly, for a period of time, GS Bank USA is expected
    to maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 8%, a total
    capital ratio of at least 11% and a Tier 1 leverage ratio
    of at least 6%. In November 2008, the firm contributed
    subsidiaries with an aggregate of $117.16 billion in assets
    into GS Bank USA (which brought total assets in
    GS Bank USA

200

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

to $145.06 billion as of November 2008). As a result, the
    firm is currently working with the Federal Reserve Board to
    finalize its methodology for the Basel I calculations. As
    of November 2008, under Basel I, GS Bank USA s
    estimated Tier 1 capital ratio was 8.9% and estimated total
    capital ratio was 11.6%. In addition, GS Bank USA s
    estimated Tier 1 leverage ratio was 9.1%.

The deposits of GS Bank USA are insured by the FDIC to the
    extent provided by law. The Federal Reserve Board requires
    depository institutions to maintain cash reserves with a Federal
    Reserve Bank. The reserve balance deposited by the firm s
    depository institution subsidiaries held at the Federal Reserve
    Bank was approximately $94 million and $32 million as
    of November 2008 and November 2007, respectively. GS
    Bank Europe, a wholly owned credit institution, is regulated by
    the Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority and is subject
    to minimum capital requirements. As of November 2008, GS
    Bank USA and GS Bank Europe were both in compliance with all
    regulatory capital requirements.

Transactions between GS Bank USA and Group Inc. and its
    subsidiaries and affiliates (other than, generally, subsidiaries
    of GS Bank USA) are regulated by the Federal Reserve Board.
    These regulations generally limit the types and amounts of
    transactions (including loans to and borrowings from GS Bank
    USA) that may take place and generally require those
    transactions to be on an arms-length basis.

The firm has U.S. insurance subsidiaries that are subject
    to state insurance regulation and oversight in the states in
    which they are domiciled and in the other states in which they
    are licensed. In addition, certain of the firm s insurance
    subsidiaries outside of the U.S. are regulated by the
    Bermuda Monetary Authority and by Lloyd s (which is, in
    turn, regulated by the U.K. s Financial Services Authority
    (FSA)). The firm s insurance subsidiaries were in
    compliance with all regulatory capital requirements as of
    November 2008 and November 2007.

The firm s principal
     non-U.S. regulated 
    subsidiaries include Goldman Sachs International (GSI) and
    Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd. (GSJCL). GSI, the firm s
    regulated U.K.
     broker-dealer, 
    is subject to the capital requirements of the FSA. GSJCL, the
    firm s regulated Japanese
     broker-dealer, 
    is subject to the capital requirements imposed by Japan s
    Financial Services Agency. As of November 2008 and
    November 2007, GSI and GSJCL were in compliance with their
    local capital adequacy requirements. Certain other
     non-U.S. subsidiaries 
    of the firm are also subject to capital adequacy requirements
    promulgated by authorities of the countries in which they
    operate. As of November 2008 and November 2007, these
    subsidiaries were in compliance with their local capital
    adequacy requirements.

The regulatory requirements referred to above restrict Group
    Inc. s ability to withdraw capital from its regulated
    subsidiaries. As of November 2008 and November 2007,
    approximately $26.92 billion and $18.10 billion,
    respectively, of net assets of regulated subsidiaries were
    restricted as to the payment of dividends to Group Inc. In
    addition to limitations on the payment of dividends imposed by
    federal and state laws, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC
    have authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends
    by the banking organizations they supervise (including
    GS Bank USA) if, in the Federal Reserve Board s
    opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or
    unsound practice in the light of the financial condition of the
    banking organization. As of November 2008, GS Bank USA was not
    able to declare dividends to Group Inc. without regulatory
    approval.

201

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 18.    

Business
    Segments  

In reporting to management, the firm s operating results
    are categorized into the following three business segments:
    Investment Banking, Trading and Principal Investments, and Asset
    Management and Securities Services.

Basis of
    Presentation   

In reporting segments, certain of the firm s business lines
    have been aggregated where they have similar economic
    characteristics and are similar in each of the following areas:
    (i) the nature of the services they provide,
    (ii) their methods of distribution, (iii) the types of
    clients they serve and (iv) the regulatory environments in
    which they operate.

The cost drivers of the firm taken as a whole  
    compensation, headcount and levels of business
    activity   are broadly similar in each of the
    firm s business segments. Compensation and benefits
    expenses within the firm s segments reflect, among other
    factors, the overall performance of the firm as well as the
    performance of individual business units. Consequently,
     pre-tax 
    margins in one segment of the firm s business may be
    significantly affected by the performance of the firm s
    other business segments.

The firm allocates revenues and expenses among the three
    business segments. Due to the integrated nature of these
    segments, estimates and judgments have been made in allocating
    certain revenue and expense items. Transactions between segments
    are based on specific criteria or approximate
     third-party 
    rates. Total operating expenses include corporate items that
    have not been allocated to individual business segments. The
    allocation process is based on the manner in which management
    views the business of the firm.

The segment information presented in the table below is prepared
    according to the following methodologies:

Revenues and expenses directly associated with each segment are
    included in determining
     pre-tax 
    earnings.

Net revenues in the firm s segments include allocations of
    interest income and interest expense to specific securities,
    commodities and other positions in relation to the cash
    generated by, or funding requirements of, such underlying
    positions. Net interest is included within segment net revenues
    as it is consistent with the way in which management assesses
    segment performance.

Overhead expenses not directly allocable to specific segments
    are allocated ratably based on direct segment expenses.

202

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Segment
    Operating Results   

Management believes that the following information provides a
    reasonable representation of each segment s contribution to
    consolidated
     pre-tax 
    earnings and total assets:

(1)   

Net revenues include net interest
    as set forth in the table below:

(2)   

Net revenues includes
     non-interest 
    income as set forth in the table below:

203

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Trading and principal investments revenues include
    $(61) million, $6 million and $(7) million for
    the years ended November 2008, November 2007 and
    November 2006, respectively, of realized gains/(losses) on
    securities held within the firm s insurance subsidiaries
    which are accounted for as
     available-for-sale 
    under SFAS No. 115.

(3)   

Operating expenses include net
    provisions for a number of litigation and regulatory proceedings
    of $(4) million, $37 million and $45 million for
    the years ended November 2008, November 2007 and
    November 2006, respectively, that have not been allocated
    to the firm s segments.

(4)   

Pre-tax 
    earnings include total depreciation and amortization as set
    forth in the table below:

Geographic
    Information   

Due to the highly integrated nature of international financial
    markets, the firm manages its businesses based on the
    profitability of the enterprise as a whole. Since a significant
    portion of the firm s activities require cross-border
    coordination in order to facilitate the needs of the firm s
    clients, the methodology for allocating the firm s
    profitability to geographic regions is dependent on the judgment
    of management.

Geographic results are generally allocated as follows:

Investment Banking: location of the client and investment
    banking team.

Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities, and Equities: location
    of the trading desk.

Principal Investments: location of the investment.

Asset Management: location of the sales team.

Securities Services: location of the primary market for the
    underlying security.

204

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table sets forth the total net revenues,
     pre-tax 
    earnings and net earnings of the firm and its consolidated
    subsidiaries by geographic region allocated on the methodology
    described above, as well as the percentage of total net
    revenues,
     pre-tax 
    earnings and net earnings for each geographic region:

(1)   

Substantially all relates to the
    U.S.

(2)   

EMEA (Europe, Middle East and
    Africa).

(3)   

Consists of net provisions for a
    number of litigation and regulatory proceedings.

205

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 19.    

Interest
    Income and Interest Expense  

The following table sets forth the details of the firm s
    interest income and interest expense:

(1)   

Interest income is recorded on an
    accrual basis based on contractual interest rates.

(2)   

Primarily includes interest income
    on customer debit balances, securities borrowed and other
    interest-earning assets.

(3)   

Includes interest on unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings and
     short-term 
    other secured financings.

(4)   

Includes interest on unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings and
     long-term 
    other secured financings.

(5)   

Primarily includes interest expense
    on customer credit balances, securities loaned and other
    interest-bearing liabilities.

206

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Group
    Inc.   Condensed Statements of Earnings  

Group
    Inc.   Condensed Statements of Financial
    Condition  

Group
    Inc.   Condensed Statements of Cash Flows  

SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES:

Cash payments for
     third-party 
    interest, net of capitalized interest, were $7.18 billion,
    $7.78 billion and $6.11 billion for the years ended
    November 2008, November 2007 and November 2006,
    respectively.

Cash payments for income taxes, net
    of refunds, were $99 million, $3.27 billion and
    $2.86 billion for the years ended November 2008,
    November 2007 and November 2006, respectively.

207

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 21.    

Subsequent
    Events  

On December 15, 2008, the Board approved a change in
    the firm s fiscal year-end from the last Friday of November
    to the last Friday of December. The change is effective for the
    firm s 2009 fiscal year. The firm s 2009 fiscal year
    began December 27, 2008 and will end
    December 25, 2009, resulting in a
     one-month 
    transition period that began November 29, 2008 and
    ended December 26, 2008.

In December 2008, there was continued deterioration in the
    credit of LyondellBasell Finance Company, to which the firm had
    provided bridge loan financing. On January 6, 2009,
    certain legal entities within the LyondellBasell Industries AF
    S.C.A. group filed for bankruptcy. As a result, the firm
    incurred a loss of approximately $850 million in
    December 2008 from marking the bridge and bank loan
    facilities held in LyondellBasell Finance Company to expected
    recovery levels.

208

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Quarterly Results
    (unaudited)  

The following represents the firm s unaudited quarterly
    results for 2008 and 2007. These quarterly results were prepared
    in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and
    reflect all adjustments that are, in the opinion of management,
    necessary for a fair statement of the results. These adjustments
    are of a normal recurring nature.

(1)   

The timing and magnitude of changes
    in the firm s bonus accruals can have a significant effect
    on results in a given quarter.

209

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Common Stock
    Price Range  

The following table sets forth, for the quarters indicated, the
    high and low sales prices per share of the firm s common
    stock.

As of January 16, 2009, there were 9,909 holders of record
    of the firm s common stock.

On January 16, 2009, the last reported sales price for the
    firm s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange was
    $73.05 per share.

210

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Selected
    Financial Data  

211

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Statistical
    Disclosures  

Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders 
    Equity  

The following table sets forth a summary of consolidated average
    balances and interest rates for the years ended
    November 2008, November 2007 and November 2006.

212

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

(1)  

Consists of cash trading instruments, including equity
    securities and convertible debentures.

(2)  

Derivative instruments are included in other noninterest-earning
    assets and other noninterest-bearing liabilities.

(3)  

Primarily consists of cash and securities segregated for
    regulatory and other purposes and receivables from customers and
    counterparties.

(4)  

Consists of short-term other secured financings and unsecured
    short-term borrowings, excluding commercial paper.

(5)  

Interest rates include the effects of hedging in accordance with
    SFAS No. 133.

(6)  

Consists of long-term other secured financings and unsecured
    long-term borrowings.

(7)  

Primarily consists of payables to customers and counterparties.

(8)  

Assets, liabilities and interest are attributed to U.S. and
     non-U.S. 
    based on the principal place of operations of the legal entity
    in which the assets and liabilities are held.

213

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Changes in Net
    Interest Income, Volume and Rate Analysis   

The following table sets forth an analysis of the effect on net
    interest income of volume and rate changes for the periods 2008
    versus 2007 and 2007 versus 2006. In this analysis, changes due
    to volume/rate variance have been allocated to volume.

214

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Available-for-sale 
    Securities Portfolio   

The following table sets forth the amortized cost, gross
    unrealized gains and losses, and fair value of
     available-for-sale 
    securities at November 2008 and November 2007:

215

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

(1)   

Yields are calculated on a weighted average basis.

216

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Deposits   

The following table sets forth a summary of the average balances
    and average interest rates for the firm s interest-bearing
    deposits for the years ended November 2008,
    November 2007 and November 2006:

(1)   

Amounts are available for
    withdrawal upon short notice, generally within seven days.

As of November 2008, the firm had $55 million of non-U.S.
    time deposits greater than $100,000.

Ratios   

The following table sets forth selected financial ratios:

(1)   

Based on net income less preferred
    stock dividends as a percentage of average common
    shareholders  equity.

(2)   

Based on net income as a percentage
    of average total shareholders  equity.

(3)   

Dividends declared per common share
    as a percentage of net income per diluted share.

217

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Short-term 
    and Other Borrowed Funds
         (1)  

The following table sets forth a summary of the firm s
    securities loaned and securities sold under agreements to
    repurchase and
     short-term 
    borrowings as of or for the years ended November as indicated
    below:

Cross-border
    Outstandings   

Cross-border outstandings are based upon the Federal Financial
    Institutions Examination Council s (FFIEC) regulatory
    guidelines for reporting cross-border risk. Claims include cash,
    receivables, securities purchased under agreements to resell,
    securities borrowed and cash trading instruments, but exclude
    derivative instruments and commitments. Securities purchased
    under agreements to resell and securities borrowed are presented
    based on the domicile of the counterparty, without reduction for
    related securities collateral held.

The following table sets forth cross-border outstandings for
    each country in which cross-border outstandings exceed 0.75% of
    consolidated assets as of November 2008 in accordance with
    the FFIEC guidelines:

218

Table of Contents   

Item 9.    

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure  

There were no changes in or disagreements with accountants on
    accounting and financial disclosure during the last two fiscal
    years.

Item 9A.    

Controls
    and Procedures  

As of the end of the period covered by this report, an
    evaluation was carried out by Goldman Sachs  management,
    with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
    Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in
     Rule 13a-15(e) 
    under the Exchange Act). Based upon that evaluation, our Chief
    Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that
    these disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of
    the end of the period covered by this report. In addition, no
    change in our internal control over financial reporting (as
    defined in
     Rule 13a-15(f) 
    under the Exchange Act) occurred during the fourth quarter
    of our fiscal year ended November 28, 2008 that has
    materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
    affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting and the Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm are set forth in Part II, Item 8 of
    our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Item 9B.    

Other
    Information  

Not applicable.

219

Table of Contents   

PART III  

Item 10.    

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  

Information relating to our executive officers is included on
    pages 51 to 52 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    Information relating to our directors, including our audit
    committee and audit committee financial experts and the
    procedures by which shareholders can recommend director
    nominees, and our executive officers will be in our definitive
    Proxy Statement for our 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to
    be held on May 8, 2009, which will be filed within
    120 days of the end of our fiscal year ended
    November 28, 2008 (2009 Proxy Statement) and is
    incorporated herein by reference. Information relating to our
    Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to our senior
    financial officers, as defined in the Code, is included in
    Part I, Item 1 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Item 11.    

Executive
    Compensation  

Information relating to our executive officer and director
    compensation and the compensation committee of our board of
    directors will be in the 2009 Proxy Statement and is
    incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.    

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters  

Information relating to security ownership of certain beneficial
    owners of our common stock and information relating to the
    security ownership of our management will be in the 2009 Proxy
    Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

220

Table of Contents   

The following table provides information generally as of
    November 28, 2008, the last day of fiscal 2008,
    regarding securities to be issued on exercise of stock options,
    and securities remaining available for issuance under our equity
    compensation plans that were in effect during fiscal 2008.

Number of Securities 

Number of 

Remaining Available 

Securities to be 

for Future Issuance 

Issued Upon 

Weighted-Average 

Under Equity 

Exercise of 

Exercise Price of 

Compensation Plans 

Outstanding 

Outstanding 

(Excluding Securities 

Options, Warrants 

Options, Warrants 

Reflected in the 

Plan Category 

and Rights 

and Rights 

Second Column) 

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders

The Goldman 
    Sachs Amended 
    and Restated 
    Stock Incentive 
    Plan  (1) 

33,639,132

(2) 

$

109.47

(2) 

216,990,058

(3) 

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders

None

Total

33,639,132

(2) 

216,990,058

(3)(4) 

(1)   

The Goldman Sachs Amended and
    Restated Stock Incentive Plan (SIP) was approved by the
    shareholders of Goldman Sachs at our 2003 Annual Meeting of
    Shareholders and is a successor plan to The Goldman Sachs 1999
    Stock Incentive Plan (1999 Plan), which was approved by our
    shareholders immediately prior to our initial public offering in
    May 1999 and under which no additional awards have been
    granted since approval of the SIP.

(2)   

Includes options that are subject
    to vesting and other conditions.

(3)   

Of these shares,
    54,852,028 shares may be issued pursuant to outstanding
    restricted stock units, including 54,824,666 shares granted
    under the SIP and 27,362 shares granted under the 1999
    Plan; 151,230 shares may be issued pursuant to outstanding
    performance-based units granted under the SIP.

(4)   

Represents shares remaining to be
    issued under the SIP (217,388,173 shares) and the 1999 Plan
    (27,362 shares). The total number of shares of common stock
    that may be delivered pursuant to awards granted under the SIP
    initially may not exceed 250,000,000 shares. Beginning
    November 29, 2008 and each fiscal year thereafter, the
    number of shares of common stock that may be delivered pursuant
    to awards granted after April 1, 2003 under the SIP
    may not exceed 5% of our issued and outstanding shares of common
    stock, determined as of the last day of the immediately
    preceding fiscal year, increased by the number of shares that
    were available for awards in previous fiscal years but were not,
    at the date of determination, covered by awards granted in
    previous years.

Item 13.    

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence  

Information regarding certain relationships and related
    transactions and director independence will be in the 2009 Proxy
    Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14.    

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services  

Information regarding principal accountant fees and services
    will be in the 2009 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein
    by reference.

221

Table of Contents   

PART IV  

Item 15.    

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules  

(a)    
     
     Documents filed as part of this Report: 

1. 

Consolidated Financial Statements

The consolidated financial statements required to be filed
    in our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    are included in Part II, Item 8 hereof.

2.1

Plan of Incorporation (incorporated by reference to the
    corresponding exhibit to the Registrant s registration
    statement on Form S-1 (No. 333-74449)).

3.1

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of The Goldman Sachs
    Group, Inc.

3.2

Amended and Restated By-Laws of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
    Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 8-K, 
    filed December 12, 2006).

4.1

Indenture, dated as of May 19, 1999, between The Goldman Sachs
    Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York, as trustee (incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 6 to the Registrant s registration
    statement on Form 8-A, filed June 29, 1999).

4.2

Subordinated Debt Indenture, dated as of February 20, 2004,
    between The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York,
    as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the
    Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
    ended November 28, 2003).

4.3

Warrant Indenture, dated as of February 14, 2006, between The
    Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York, as trustee
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.34 to the
    Registrant s Post-Effective Amendment No. 3 to Form S-3,
    filed on March 1, 2006).

4.4

Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of December 4, 2007, among GS
    Finance Corp., as issuer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., as
    guarantor, and The Bank of New York, as Trustee (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 4.69 to the Registrant s
    Post-Effective Amendment No. 10 to Form S-3, filed on December
    4, 2007).

4.5

Form of floating rate senior debt security (TLGP) issued under
    the Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of July 16, 2008, between
    The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon,
    as trustee.

4.6

Form of fixed rate senior debt security (TLGP) issued under the
    Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of July 16, 2008, between The
    Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon, as
    trustee.

4.7

Form of floating rate Medium-Term Note, Series D (TLGP)
    issued under the Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of
    July 16, 2008, between The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and
    The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee.

4.8

Form of fixed rate Medium-Term Note, Series D (TLGP) issued
    under the Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of July 16, 2008,
    between The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York
    Mellon, as trustee.

4.9

Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of July 16, 2008, between
    The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon,
    as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.82 to
    the Registrant s Post-Effective Amendment No. 11 to
     Form S-3 
     (No. 333-130074), 
    filed July 17, 2008).

4.10

Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of October 10, 2008, among
    GS Finance Corp., as issuer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., as
    guarantor, and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.70 to the
    Registrant s registration statement on
     Form S-3 
     (No. 333-154173), 
    filed October 10, 2008).

Certain instruments defining the rights of holders of
    long-term debt securities of the Registrant and its subsidiaries
    are omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation
    S - K.  The
    Registrant hereby undertakes to furnish to the SEC, upon
    request, copies of any such instruments. 

222

Table of Contents   

223

Table of Contents   

224

Table of Contents   

10.34

Form of Year-End Restricted Stock Award in Connection with
    Outstanding RSU Awards (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
    10.35 to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form
     10-K  for the
    fiscal year ended November 30, 2007). 

10.35

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Non-Qualified Deferred
    Compensation Plan for U.S. Participating Managing Directors
    (terminated as of December 15, 2008) (incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 10.36 to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form
    10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007). 

10.36

Form of Year-End Option Award Agreement. 

10.37

Form of Year-End RSU Award Agreement (not fully vested upon
    grant). 

10.38

Form of Year-End RSU Award Agreement (fully vested upon grant)
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.37 to the
    Registrant s Annual Report on Form
     10-K  for the
    fiscal year ended November 30, 2007). 

10.39

Form of Year-End RSU Award Agreement (French alternative
    award). 

10.40

Amendments to 2005 and 2006 Year-End RSU and Option Award
    Agreements  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.44 to the
    Registrant s Annual Report on Form
     10-K  for the
    fiscal year ended November 30, 2007). 

10.41

Form of Non-Employee Director Option Award Agreement. 

10.42

Form of Non-Employee Director RSU Award Agreement. 

10.43

Description of Non-Employee Director Compensation. 

10.44

Ground Lease, dated August 23, 2005, between Battery Park City
    Authority d/b/a/ Hugh L. Carey Battery Park City Authority, as
    Landlord, and Goldman Sachs Headquarters LLC, as Tenant
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed August 26,
    2005).

10.45

General Guarantee Agreement, dated January 30, 2006, made by The
    Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
    10.45 to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
    the fiscal year ended November 25, 2005).

10.46

Letter, dated November 10, 2006, from The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc. to Mr. Rajat K. Gupta (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 99.1 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form
    8-K, filed November 13, 2006). 

10.47

Goldman, Sachs   Co. Executive Life Insurance Policy and
    Certificate with Metropolitan Life Insurance Company for
    Participating Managing Directors (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the period ended August 25, 2006). 

10.48

Form of Goldman, Sachs   Co. Executive Life Insurance
    Policy with Pacific Life   Annuity Company for
    Participating Managing Directors, including policy
    specifications and form of restriction on Policy Owner s
    Rights (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
    Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the period ended August 25, 2006). 

10.49

Form of Signature Card for Equity Awards. 

10.50

Form of Employment Agreement for post-IPO Participating Managing
    Directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.50 to the
    Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
    ended November 24, 2006). 

10.51

Form of Second Amendment, dated November 25, 2006, to Agreement
    Relating to Noncompetition and Other Covenants, dated May 7,
    1999, as amended effective November 27, 2004
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.51 to the
    Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
    ended November 24, 2006). 

10.52

Description of PMD Retiree Medical Program (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s Quarterly
    Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the period ended February 29, 2008). 

225

Table of Contents   

10.53

Letter, dated June 28, 2008, from The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
    to Mr. Lakshmi N. Mittal (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 99.1 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form
    8-K, filed June 30, 2008). 

10.54

Securities Purchase Agreement, dated September 29, 2008, between
    The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the period ended August 29, 2008).

10.55

General Guarantee Agreement, dated October 21, 2008, made by The
    Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. relating to the obligations of Goldman
    Sachs Bank USA  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.85 to
    the Registrant s Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to
    Form S-3, filed October 22, 2008).

10.56

Form of Letter Agreement between The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
    and each of Lloyd C. Blankfein, Gary D. Cohn, Jon Winkelried and
    David A. Viniar (incorporated by reference to Exhibit O to
    Amendment No. 70 to Schedule 13D, filed
    October 1, 2008, relating to the Registrant s
    common stock (No. 005-56295)).

10.57

Letter Agreement, dated as of October 26, 2008, including
    Securities Purchase Agreement   Standard Terms
    incorporated by reference therein, between The Goldman Sachs
    Group, Inc. and the United States Department of the Treasury
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed October 28,
    2008).

10.58

Form of Letter Agreement, dated October 28, 2008, between The
    Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and its senior executive officers
    relating to executive compensation limitations under the U.S.
    Treasury Department s Capital Purchase Program. 

10.59

General Guarantee Agreement, dated November 24, 2008, made by
    The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. relating to the obligations of
    Goldman Sachs Bank (Europe) PLC.

10.60

Guarantee Agreement, dated November 28, 2008, between The
    Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and Goldman Sachs Bank USA.

10.61

Collateral Agreement, dated November 28, 2008, between The
    Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Goldman Sachs Bank USA and each other
    party that becomes a  pledgor pursuant thereto.

10.62

Form of Performance-Based One-Time RSU Award Agreement. 

10.63

Form of Make-Whole One-Time RSU Award Agreement. 

10.64

Form of Incentive One-Time RSU Award Agreement. 

10.65

Form of Year-End Supplemental RSU Award Agreement (employees in
    France). 

10.66

Form of Signature Card for Equity Awards (employees in Asia
    outside China). 

10.67

Form of Signature Card for Equity Awards (employees in
    China). 

10.68

Amendments to Certain Equity Award Agreements. 

10.69

Amendments to Certain Non-Employee Director Equity Award
    Agreements. 

12.1

Statement re: Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges
    and Ratios of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred
    Stock Dividends.

21.1

List of significant subsidiaries of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.

23.1

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.

24.1

Powers of Attorney (included on signature page).

31.1

Rule 13a-14(a) Certifications.

32.1

Section 1350 Certifications.

99.1

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
    Selected Financial Data.

This exhibit is a management contract or a compensatory plan or
    arrangement.

226

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.

By: 

/s/  David
    A. Viniar

Name: David A. Viniar

Title: Chief Financial Officer

Date: January 26, 2009

II-1

Table of Contents   

POWER OF
    ATTORNEY  

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose
    signature appears below constitutes and appoints Lloyd C.
    Blankfein, Gary D. Cohn, Jon Winkelried, David A. Viniar,
    Gregory K. Palm and Esta E. Stecher, and each of them severally,
    his or her true and lawful
     attorney-in-fact 
    with power of substitution and resubstitution to sign in his or
    her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to do any
    and all things and execute any and all instruments that such
    attorney may deem necessary or advisable under the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules, regulations and requirements
    of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in
    connection with our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    and any and all amendments hereto, as fully for all intents and
    purposes as he or she might or could do in person, and hereby
    ratifies and confirms all said
     attorneys-in-fact 
    and agents, each acting alone, and his or her substitute or
    substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue
    hereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

II-2

Table of Contents   

Signature 

Capacity 

Date 

/s/  Jon
    Winkelried
 
       Jon
    Winkelried

Director

January 26, 2009

/s/  David
    A. Viniar
 
       David
    A. Viniar

Chief Financial Officer 
    (Principal Financial Officer)

January 26, 2009

/s/  Sarah
    E. Smith
 
       Sarah
    E. Smith

Principal Accounting Officer

January 26, 2009

II-3

<EX-3.1>
 2
 y74032exv3w1.htm
 EX-3.1: RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION

EX-3.1 

Exhibit 3.1 

RESTATED 
CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION 
OF 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC ., a corporation organized and existing under the Delaware General
Corporation Law (the  Corporation ), DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:

1. The name of the Corporation is The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. The date of filing of its original
certificate of incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware was July 21,
1998.

2. This Restated Certificate of Incorporation restates and integrates and does not further amend
the provisions of the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation as heretofore amended or
supplemented. There is no discrepancy between the provisions of this Restated Certificate of
Incorporation and the provisions of the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation as
heretofore amended or supplemented. This Restated Certificate of Incorporation has been duly
adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section 245 of the General Corporation Law of the
State of Delaware. The text of the certificate of incorporation is hereby restated to read herein
as set forth in full:

FIRST. The name of the Corporation is The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.

SECOND. The address of the Corporation s registered office in the State of Delaware is
Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle.
The name of its registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.

THIRD. The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which
corporations may be organized under the Delaware General Corporation Law. Without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, the Corporation shall have all of the powers conferred on
corporations by the Delaware General Corporation Law and other law, including the power and
authority to make an initial charitable contribution (as defined in Section 170(c) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as currently in effect or as the same may hereafter be amended)
of up to an aggregate of $200,000,000 to one or more entities (the  Contribution ), and to make
other charitable contributions from time to time thereafter, in such amounts, on such terms and
conditions and for such purposes as may be lawful.

FOURTH. The total number of shares of all classes of stock which the Corporation shall have
authority to issue is 4,350,000,000, of which 4,000,000,000 shares of the par value of $0.01
per share shall be a separate class designated as Common Stock, 200,000,000 shares of the par
value of $0.01 per share shall be a separate class designated as Nonvoting Common Stock and
150,000,000 shares of the par value of $0.01 per share shall be a separate class designated as
Preferred Stock.

COMMON STOCK AND NONVOTING COMMON STOCK 

Except as set forth in this Article FOURTH, the Common Stock and the Nonvoting Common Stock
(together, the  Common Shares ) shall have the same rights and privileges and shall rank
equally, share ratably and be identical in all respects as to all matters.

(i) Voting. Except as may be provided in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or
required by law, the Common Stock shall have voting rights in the election of directors and
on all other matters presented to stockholders, with each holder of Common Stock being
entitled to one vote for each share of Common Stock held of record by such holder on such
matters. The Nonvoting Common Stock shall have no voting rights other than such rights as
may be required by the first sentence of Section 242(b)(2) of the Delaware General
Corporation Law or any similar provision hereafter enacted; provided that an amendment of
this Restated Certificate of Incorporation to increase or decrease the number of authorized
 shares of Nonvoting Common Stock (but not below the number of shares thereof then
outstanding) may be adopted by resolution adopted by the board of directors of the
Corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting
power of all outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Corporation and all other
outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote thereon irrespective of the
provisions of Section 242(b)(2) of the Delaware General Corporation Law or any similar
provision hereafter enacted, with such outstanding shares of Common Stock and other stock
considered for this purpose as a single class, and no vote of the holders of any shares of
Nonvoting Common Stock, voting separately as a class, shall be required therefor.

(ii) Dividends. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock,
holders of Common Stock and holders of Nonvoting Common Stock shall be entitled to receive
such dividends and distributions (whether payable in cash or otherwise) as may be declared
on the Common Shares by the board of directors of the Corporation from time to time out of
assets or funds of the Corporation legally available therefor;  provided  that the board of
directors of the Corporation shall declare no dividend, and no dividend shall be paid, with
respect to any outstanding share of Common Stock or Nonvoting Common Stock, whether in cash
or otherwise (including any dividend in shares of Common Stock on or with respect to shares
of Common Stock or any dividend in shares of Nonvoting Common Stock on or with respect to
 shares of Nonvoting Common Stock (collectively,  Stock Dividends )), unless,
simultaneously, the same dividend is declared or paid with respect to each share of Common
Stock and Nonvoting Common Stock. If a Stock Dividend is declared or paid with respect to
one class, then a Stock Dividend shall likewise be declared or paid with respect to the
other class and shall consist of shares of such other class in a number that bears the same
relationship to the total number of shares of such other class, issued and outstanding
immediately prior to the payment of such dividend, as the number of shares comprising the
Stock Dividend with respect to the first referenced class

-2- 

bears to the total number of shares of such first referenced class, issued and outstanding
immediately prior to the payment of such dividend. Stock Dividends with respect to Common
Stock may be paid only with shares of Common Stock. Stock Dividends with respect to
Nonvoting Common Stock may be paid only with shares of Nonvoting Common Stock.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of any dividend in the form of capital stock of
a subsidiary of the Corporation, the capital stock of the subsidiary distributed to holders
of Common Stock shall be identical to the capital stock of the subsidiary distributed to
holders of Nonvoting Common Stock, except that the capital stock distributed to holders of
Common Stock may have full or any other voting rights and the capital stock distributed to
holders of Nonvoting Common Stock shall be non-voting to the same extent as the Nonvoting
Common Stock is non-voting.

(iii) Subdivisions, Combinations and Mergers. If the Corporation shall in any manner split,
subdivide or combine the outstanding shares of Common Stock or the outstanding shares of
Nonvoting Common Stock, the outstanding shares of the other such class of the Common Shares
shall likewise be split, subdivided or combined in the same manner proportionately and on
the same basis per share. In the event of any merger, statutory share exchange,
consolidation or similar form of corporate transaction involving the Corporation (whether
or not the Corporation is the surviving entity), the holders of Common Stock and the
holders of Nonvoting Common Stock shall be entitled to receive the same per share
consideration, if any, except that any securities received by holders of Common Stock in
consideration of such stock may have full or any other voting rights and any securities
received by holders of Nonvoting Common Stock in consideration of such stock shall be
non-voting to the same extent as the Nonvoting Common Stock is non-voting.

(iv) Rights on Liquidation. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred
Stock, in the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation
(whether voluntary or involuntary), the assets of the Corporation available for
distribution to stockholders shall be distributed in equal amounts per share to the holders
of Common Stock and the holders of Nonvoting Common Stock, as if such classes constituted a
single class. For purposes of this paragraph, a merger, statutory share exchange,
consolidation or similar corporate transaction involving the Corporation (whether or not
the Corporation is the surviving entity), or the sale, transfer or lease by the Corporation
of all or substantially all its assets, shall not constitute or be deemed a liquidation,
dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation.

-3- 

PREFERRED STOCK 

Shares of Preferred Stock may be issued in one or more series from time to time as determined
by the board of directors of the Corporation, and the board of directors of the Corporation is
authorized to fix by resolution or resolutions the designations and the powers, preferences and
rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of each
series of Preferred Stock, including the following:

(i) the distinctive serial designation of such series which shall distinguish it from other
series;

(ii) the number of shares included in such series;

(iii) whether dividends shall be payable to the holders of the shares of such series and,
if so, the basis on which such holders shall be entitled to receive dividends (which may
include, without limitation, a right to receive such dividends or distributions as may be
declared on the shares of such series by the board of directors of the Corporation, a right
to receive such dividends or distributions, or any portion or multiple thereof, as may be
declared on the Common Stock or any other class of stock or, in addition to or in lieu of
any other right to receive dividends, a right to receive dividends at a particular rate or
at a rate determined by a particular method, in which case such rate or method of
determining such rate may be set forth), the form of such dividend, any conditions on which
such dividends shall be payable and the date or dates, if any, on which such dividends
shall be payable;

(iv) whether dividends on the shares of such series shall be cumulative and, if so, the
date or dates or method of determining the date or dates from which dividends on the shares
of such series shall be cumulative;

(v) the amount or amounts, if any, which shall be payable out of the assets of the
Corporation to the holders of the shares of such series upon the voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, and the relative rights of
priority, if any, of payment of the shares of such series;

(vi) the price or prices (in cash, securities or other property or a combination thereof)
at which, the period or periods within which and the terms and conditions upon which the
            shares of such series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the
Corporation or at the option of the holder or holders thereof or upon the happening of a
specified event or events;

(vii) the obligation, if any, of the Corporation to purchase or redeem shares of such
series pursuant to a sinking fund or otherwise and the price or prices (in cash, securities
or other property or a combination thereof) at which, the period or periods within which
and the terms and conditions upon which the shares of such series shall be redeemed or
purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;

-4- 

(viii) whether or not the shares of such series shall be convertible or exchangeable, at
any time or times at the option of the holder or holders thereof or at the option of the
Corporation or upon the happening of a specified event or events, into shares of any other
class or classes or any other series of the same or any other class or classes of stock of
the Corporation or any other securities or property of the Corporation or any other entity,
and the price or prices (in cash, securities or other property or a combination thereof) or
rate or rates of conversion or exchange and any adjustments applicable thereto; and

(ix) whether or not the holders of the shares of such series shall have voting rights, in
addition to the voting rights provided by law, and if so the terms of such voting rights,
which may provide, among other things and subject to the other provisions of this Restated
Certificate of Incorporation, that each share of such series shall carry one vote or more
or less than one vote per share, that the holders of such series shall be entitled to vote
on certain matters as a separate class (which for such purpose may be comprised solely of
such series or of such series and one or more other series or classes of stock of the
Corporation) and that all the shares of such series entitled to vote on a particular matter
shall be deemed to be voted on such matter in the manner that a specified portion of the
voting power of the shares of such series or separate class are voted on such matter.

For all purposes, this Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall include each certificate of
designations (if any) setting forth the terms of a series of Preferred Stock.

Subject to the rights, if any, of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock set forth in a
certificate of designations, an amendment of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation to
increase or decrease the number of authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock (but not
below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) may be adopted by resolution adopted by
the board of directors of the Corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of the holders
of a majority of the voting power of all outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Corporation
and all other outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote thereon
irrespective of the provisions of Section 242(b)(2) of the Delaware General Corporation Law or
any similar provision hereafter enacted, with such outstanding shares of Common Stock and other
stock considered for this purpose as a single class, and no vote of the holders of any series
of Preferred Stock, voting as a separate class, shall be required therefor.

Except as otherwise required by law or provided in the certificate of designations for the
relevant series, holders of Common Shares, as such, shall not be entitled to vote on any
amendment of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation that alters or changes the powers,
preferences, rights or other terms of one or more outstanding series of Preferred Stock if the
holders of such affected series are entitled, either separately or together with the holders of
one or more other series of Preferred Stock, to vote thereon as a separate class pursuant to
this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law
as then in effect.

-5- 

Pursuant to the authority conferred by this Article FOURTH upon the board of directors of the
Corporation and authority delegated by the board of directors to the Securities Issuance
Committee of the board of directors of the Corporation (the  Securities Issuance Committee ),
the Securities Issuance Committee created a series of shares of Preferred Stock designated as
Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, by filing a certificate of designations
of the Corporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on April 22, 2005, and
the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other
special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the
Corporation s Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, are set forth in Appendix
A hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.

Pursuant to the authority conferred by this Article FOURTH upon the board of directors of the
Corporation and authority delegated by the board of directors to the Securities Issuance
Committee, the Securities Issuance Committee created a series of shares of Preferred Stock
designated as 6.20% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B, by filing a certificate of
designations of the Corporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on October
28, 2005, and the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating,
optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof,
of the Corporation s 6.20% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B, are set forth in Appendix
B hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.

Pursuant to the authority conferred by this Article FOURTH upon the board of directors of the
Corporation and authority delegated by the board of directors to the Securities Issuance
Committee, the Securities Issuance Committee created a series of shares of Preferred Stock
designated as Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series C, by filing a certificate
of designations of the Corporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on
October 28, 2005, and the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating,
optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof,
of the Corporation s Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series C, are set forth in
Appendix C hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.

Pursuant to the authority conferred by this Article FOURTH upon the board of directors of the
Corporation and authority delegated by the board of directors to the Securities Issuance
Committee, the Securities Issuance Committee created a series of shares of Preferred Stock
designated as Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D, by filing a certificate
of designations of the Corporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on May
23, 2006, and the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating,
optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof,
of the Corporation s Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D, are set forth in
Appendix D hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.

Pursuant to the authority conferred by this Article FOURTH upon the board of directors of the
Corporation and authority delegated by the board of directors to the

-6- 

Securities Issuance Committee, the Securities Issuance Committee created a series of shares of
Preferred Stock designated as Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, by filing a
certificate of designations of the Corporation with the Secretary of State of the State of
Delaware on May 14, 2007, and the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative,
participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or
restrictions thereof, of the Corporation s Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E,
are set forth in Appendix E hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.

Pursuant to the authority conferred by this Article FOURTH upon the board of directors of the
Corporation and authority delegated by the board of directors to the Securities Issuance
Committee, the Securities Issuance Committee created a series of shares of Preferred Stock
designated as Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, by filing a certificate of
designations of the Corporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on May 14,
2007, and the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or
other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the
Corporation s Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, are set forth in Appendix F
hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.

Pursuant to the authority conferred by this Article FOURTH upon the board of directors of the
Corporation and authority delegated by the board of directors to the Securities Issuance
Committee, the Securities Issuance Committee created a series of shares of Preferred Stock
designated as 10% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series G, by filing a certificate of
designations of the Corporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on
September 30, 2008, and the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative,
participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or
restrictions thereof, of the Corporation s 10% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series G,
are set forth in Appendix G hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.

Pursuant to the authority conferred by this Article FOURTH upon the board of directors of the
Corporation and authority delegated by the board of directors to the Securities Issuance
Committee, the Securities Issuance Committee created a series of shares of Preferred Stock
designated as Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series H, by filing a
certificate of designations of the Corporation with the Secretary of State of the State of
Delaware on October 27, 2008, and the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative,
participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or
restrictions thereof, of the Corporation s Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock,
Series H, are set forth in Appendix H hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.

-7- 

OPTIONS, WARRANTS AND OTHER RIGHTS 

The board of directors of the Corporation is authorized to create and issue options, warrants
and other rights from time to time entitling the holders thereof to purchase securities or
other property of the Corporation or any other entity, including any class or series of stock
of the Corporation or any other entity and whether or not in connection with the issuance or
sale of any securities or other property of the Corporation, for such consideration (if any),
at such times and upon such other terms and conditions as may be determined or authorized by
the board of directors of the Corporation and set forth in one or more agreements or
instruments. Among other things and without limitation, such terms and conditions may provide
for the following:

(i) adjusting the number or exercise price of such options, warrants or other rights or the
amount or nature of the securities or other property receivable upon exercise thereof in
the event of a subdivision or combination of any securities, or a recapitalization, of the
Corporation, the acquisition by any person of beneficial ownership of securities
representing more than a designated percentage of the voting power of any outstanding
series, class or classes of securities, a change in ownership of the Corporation s
securities or a merger, statutory share exchange, consolidation, reorganization, sale of
assets or other occurrence relating to the Corporation or any of its securities, and
restricting the ability of the Corporation to enter into an agreement with respect to any
such transaction absent an assumption by another party or parties thereto of the
obligations of the Corporation under such options, warrants or other rights;

(ii) restricting, precluding or limiting the exercise, transfer or receipt of such options,
warrants or other rights by any person that becomes the beneficial owner of a designated
percentage of the voting power of any outstanding series, class or classes of securities of
the Corporation or any direct or indirect transferee of such a person, or invalidating or
voiding such options, warrants or other rights held by any such person or transferee; and

(iii) permitting the board of directors (or certain directors specified or qualified by the
terms of the governing instruments of such options, warrants or other rights) to redeem,
terminate or exchange such options, warrants or other rights.

This paragraph shall not be construed in any way to limit the power of the board of directors
of the Corporation to create and issue options, warrants or other rights.

FIFTH. The name and mailing address of the incorporator is Gregory K. Palm, 85 Broad Street,
New York, New York 10004.

SIXTH. All corporate powers shall be exercised by the board of directors of the Corporation,
except as otherwise specifically required by law or as otherwise

-8- 

provided in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation. Any meeting of stockholders may be
postponed by action of the board of directors at any time in advance of such meeting. The board
of directors of the Corporation shall have the power to adopt such rules and regulations for
the conduct of the meetings and management of the affairs of the Corporation as they may deem
proper and the power to adjourn any meeting of stockholders without a vote of the stockholders,
which powers may be delegated by the board of directors to the chairman of such meeting either
in such rules and regulations or pursuant to the by-laws of the Corporation.

Special meetings of stockholders of the Corporation may be called at any time by, but only by,
the board of directors of the Corporation, to be held at such date, time and place either
within or without the State of Delaware as may be stated in the notice of the meeting.

The board of directors of the Corporation is authorized to adopt, amend or repeal by-laws of
the Corporation. No adoption, amendment or repeal of a by-law by action of stockholders shall
be effective unless approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 80% of the
voting power of all outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Corporation and all other
outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote on such matter, with such
outstanding shares of Common Stock and other stock considered for this purpose as a single
class. Any vote of stockholders required by this Article SIXTH shall be in addition to any
other vote of stockholders that may be required by law, this Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, the by-laws of the Corporation, any agreement with a national securities
exchange or otherwise.

SEVENTH. Elections of directors need not be by written ballot except and to the extent provided
in the by-laws of the Corporation.

EIGHTH. The number of directors of the Corporation shall be fixed only by resolution of the
board of directors of the Corporation from time to time. Each director who is serving as a
director on the date of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall hold office until the
next annual meeting of stockholders after such date and until his or her successor has been
duly elected and qualified, notwithstanding that such director may have been elected for a term
that extended beyond the date of such next annual meeting of stockholders. At each annual
meeting of stockholders after the date of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, directors
elected at such annual meeting shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders
and until their successors have been duly elected and qualified.

Any director may be removed, with or without cause, with the affirmative vote of the holders of
not less than 80% of the voting power of all outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation
entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, considered for this purpose as a
single class.

Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number
of directors or from any other cause (other than vacancies and newly created directorships
which the holders of any class or classes of stock or series

-9- 

thereof are expressly entitled by this Restated Certificate of Incorporation to fill) shall be
filled by, and only by, a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a
quorum, or by the sole remaining director. Any director appointed to fill a vacancy or a newly
created directorship shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders, and until
his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or
removal.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the holders of any class or series of
Preferred Stock of the Corporation shall be entitled, voting separately as a class, to elect
any directors of the Corporation, then the number of directors that may be elected by such
holders voting separately as a class shall be in addition to the number fixed pursuant to a
resolution of the board of directors of the Corporation. Except as otherwise provided in the
terms of such class or series, (i) the terms of the directors elected by such holders voting
separately as a class shall expire at the annual meeting of stockholders next succeeding their
election and (ii) any director or directors elected by such holders voting separately as a
class may be removed, with or without cause, by the holders of a majority of the voting power
of all outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote separately as a class in
an election of such directors.

NINTH. In taking any action, including action that may involve or relate to a change or
potential change in the control of the Corporation, a director of the Corporation may consider,
among other things, both the long-term and short-term interests of the Corporation and its
stockholders and the effects that the Corporation s actions may have in the short term or long
term upon any one or more of the following matters:

(i) the prospects for potential growth, development, productivity and profitability of the
Corporation;

(ii) the Corporation s current employees;

(iii) the retired former partners of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. ( GS Group ) and the
Corporation s employees and other beneficiaries receiving or entitled to receive
retirement, welfare or similar benefits from or pursuant to any plan sponsored, or
agreement entered into, by the Corporation;

(iv) the Corporation s customers and creditors;

(v) the ability of the Corporation to provide, as a going concern, goods, services,
employment opportunities and employment benefits and otherwise to contribute to the
communities in which it does business; and

(vi) such other additional factors as a director may consider appropriate in such
circumstances.

Nothing in this Article NINTH shall create any duty owed by any director of the Corporation to
any person or entity to consider, or afford any particular weight to, any of the foregoing
matters or to limit his or her consideration to the foregoing matters. No such employee,
retired former partner of GS Group, former employee,

-10- 

beneficiary, customer, creditor or community or member thereof shall have any rights against
any director of the Corporation or the Corporation under this Article NINTH.

TENTH. From and after the consummation of the initial public offering of the shares of Common
Stock of the Corporation, no action of stockholders of the Corporation required or permitted to
be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation may be taken
without a meeting of stockholders, without prior notice and without a vote, and the power of
stockholders of the Corporation to consent in writing to the taking of any action without a
meeting is specifically denied. Notwithstanding this Article TENTH, the holders of any series
of Preferred Stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to take action by written consent to
such extent, if any, as may be provided in the terms of such series.

ELEVENTH. No provision of Articles SIXTH, NINTH, TENTH or TWELFTH or of this Article ELEVENTH
or of the second paragraph of Article EIGHTH shall be amended, modified or repealed, and no
provision inconsistent with any such provision shall become part of this Restated Certificate
of Incorporation, unless such matter is approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of not
less than 80% of the voting power of all outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Corporation
and all other outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote on such matter,
with such outstanding shares of Common Stock and other stock considered for this purpose as a
single class. Any vote of stockholders required by this Article ELEVENTH shall be in addition
to any other vote of the stockholders that may be required by law, this Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, the by-laws of the Corporation, any agreement with a national securities
exchange or otherwise.

TWELFTH. A director of the Corporation shall not be liable to the Corporation or its
stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director of the
Corporation, except to the extent that such exemption from liability or limitation thereof is
not permitted under the Delaware General Corporation Law as currently in effect or as the same
may hereafter be amended.

Pursuant to the Plan of Incorporation of GS Group, dated as of March 8, 1999, as currently in
effect or as the same may hereafter be amended (the  Plan ), the Corporation has the right, but
not the obligation, to make special arrangements with any person who was a partner of GS Group
participating in the Plan to ameliorate, in whole or in part, certain significantly
disproportionate tax or other burdens. The board of directors of the Corporation is authorized
to cause the Corporation to make such arrangements (which may include special payments) as the
board of directors of the Corporation may, in its sole discretion, deem appropriate to
effectuate the intent of the relevant provision of the Plan and the Corporation and each
stockholder of the Corporation shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be deemed to have
approved and ratified any such determination and to have waived any claim or objection on
behalf of the Corporation or any such stockholder arising out of the making of such
arrangements.

-11- 

Pursuant to the Plan, the Corporation has the right, but not the obligation, to register with
the Securities and Exchange Commission the resale of certain securities of the Corporation by
directors, employees and former directors and employees of the Corporation and its subsidiaries
and affiliates and former partners and employees of GS Group and its subsidiaries and
affiliates and to undertake various actions and to enter into agreements and arrangements in
connection therewith (collectively, the  Registration Arrangements ). The board of directors of
the Corporation is authorized to cause the Corporation to undertake such Registration
Arrangements as the board of directors of the Corporation may, in its sole discretion, deem
appropriate and the Corporation and each stockholder of the Corporation shall, to the fullest
extent permitted by law, be deemed to have approved and ratified any such determination and to
have waived any claim or objection on behalf of the Corporation or any such stockholder arising
out of the undertaking of such Registration Arrangements.

The Corporation and each stockholder of the Corporation shall, to the fullest extent permitted
by law, be deemed to have approved and ratified any decision by the board of directors of the
Corporation to make the Contribution referred to in Article THIRD, including the amount thereof
(up to the limit specified in Article THIRD) and to have waived any claim or objection on
behalf of the Corporation or any such stockholder arising out of any such decision to make, or
the making of, the Contribution.

The authorizations, approvals and ratifications contained in the second, third and fourth
paragraphs of this Article TWELFTH shall not be construed to indicate that any other
arrangements or contributions not specifically referred to in such paragraphs are, by reason of
such omission, not within the power and authority of the board of directors of the Corporation
or that the determination of the board of directors of the Corporation with respect thereto
should be judged by any legal standard other than that which would have applied but for the
inclusion of the second, third and fourth paragraphs of this Article TWELFTH.

No amendment, modification or repeal of this Article TWELFTH shall adversely affect any right
or protection of a director of the Corporation that exists at the time of such amendment,
modification or repeal.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Restated Certificate of Incorporation to be
signed and attested by its duly authorized officer on this
22nd day of January, 2009.

By:   

 /s/
Gregory K. Palm

Name:   
     Gregory K. Palm  

Title:   
     Executive Vice President and General Counsel  

-12- 

Appendix A 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 

OF 

FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES A 

OF 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. , a corporation organized and existing under the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  Corporation ), in accordance with the provisions of
Sections 103 and 151 thereof, DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:

The Securities Issuance Committee (the  Committee ) of the board of directors of the
Corporation (the  Board of Directors ), in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of
Directors dated April 6, 2005, the provisions of the amended and restated certificate of
incorporation and bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, by unanimous written consent dated
April 18, 2005, adopted the following resolution creating a series of 50,000 shares of Preferred
Stock of the Corporation designated as  Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A .

RESOLVED , that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the
resolutions of the Board of Directors dated April 6, 2005, the provisions of the amended and
restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of
Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that
the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, preferences
and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and
restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:

Section 1. Designation . The distinctive serial designation of such series of Preferred Stock
is  Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A  ( Series A ). Each share of Series A
shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series A, except as to the respective
dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue, to the extent such dates may differ as permitted
pursuant to Section 4(a) below.

Section 2. Number of Shares . The authorized number of shares of Series A shall be 50,000.
Shares of Series A that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or
converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized
but unissued shares of Series A.

Section 3. Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series A:

(a)  Board of Directors  means the board of directors of the Corporation.

(b)  ByLaws  means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be
amended from time to time.

(c)  Business Day  means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or
Friday and is not a day on which banking institutions in New York City generally are
authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.

(d)  Calculation Agent  means, at any time, the person or entity appointed by the
Corporation and serving as such agent at such time. The Corporation may terminate any such
appointment and may appoint a successor agent at any time and from time to time,  provided 
that the Corporation shall use its best efforts to ensure that there is, at all relevant
times when the Series A is outstanding, a person or entity appointed and serving as such
agent. The Calculation Agent may be a person or entity affiliated with the Corporation.

(e)  Certificate of Designations  means this Certificate of Designations relating to
the Series A, as it may be amended from time to time.

(f)  Certification of Incorporation  shall mean the amended and restated certificate
of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall
include this Certificate of Designations.

(g)  Common Stock  means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the
Corporation.

(h)  Junior Stock  means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of
the Corporation (other than Series A) that ranks junior to Series A either or both as to
the payment of dividends and/or as to the distribution of assets on any liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

(i)  London Business Day  means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday
or Friday and is a day on which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London
interbank market.

(j)  Moneyline Telerate Page  means the display on Moneyline Telerate, Inc., or any
successor service, on the page or pages specified in Section 4 below or any replacement
page or pages on that service.

(k)  Parity Stock  means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than
Series A) that ranks equally with Series A both in the payment of dividends and in the
distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

A-2 

(l)  Preferred Stock  means any and all series of Preferred Stock, having a par value
of $0.01 per share, of the Corporation, including the Series A.

(m)  Representative Amount  means, at any time, an amount that, in the Calculation
Agent s judgment, is representative of a single transaction in the relevant market at the
relevant time.

(n)  Voting Preferred Stock  means, with regard to any election or removal of a
Preferred Stock Director (as defined in Section 8(b) below) or any other matter as to which
the holders of Series A are entitled to vote as specified in Section 8 of this Certificate
of Designations, any and all series of Preferred Stock (other than Series A) that rank
equally with Series A either as to the payment of dividends or as to the distribution of
assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like
voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter.

Section 4. Dividends .

(a)  Rate . Holders of Series A shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the
Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of
Directors) out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law,
non-cumulative cash dividends at the rate determined as set forth below in this Section (4) applied
to the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of Series A. Such dividends shall be
payable quarterly in arrears (as provided below in this Section 4(a)), but only when, as and if
declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the
Board of Directors), on February 10, May 10, August 10 and November 10 ( Dividend Payment Dates ),
commencing on August 10, 2005;  provided  that if any such Dividend Payment Date would otherwise
occur on a day that is not a Business Day, such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be (and any
dividend payable on Series A on such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be payable on) the
immediately succeeding Business Day, unless such immediately succeeding Business Day falls in the
next calendar month, in which case such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be (and any such
dividend shall instead be payable on) the immediately preceding Business Day. Dividends on Series A
shall not be cumulative; holders of Series A shall not be entitled to receive any dividends not
declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the
Board of Directors) and no interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in
respect of any dividend not so declared.

Dividends that are payable on Series A on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders
of record of Series A as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable
record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other
record date fixed by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee
of the Board of Directors) that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend
Payment Date (each, a  Dividend Record Date ). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be
a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.

A-3 

Each dividend period (a  Dividend Period ) shall commence on and include a Dividend Payment
Date (other than the initial Dividend Period, which shall commence on and include the date of
original issue of the Series A,  provided  that, for any share of Series A issued after such original
issue date, the initial Dividend Period for such shares may commence on and include such other date
as the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of
Directors) shall determine and publicly disclose) and shall end on and include the calendar day
next preceding the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the Series A in respect of any
Dividend Period shall be computed by the Calculation Agent on the basis of a 360-day year and the
actual number of days elapsed in such Dividend Period. Dividends payable in respect of a Dividend
Period shall be payable in arrears     i.e., on the first Dividend Payment Date after such
Dividend Period.

The dividend rate on the Series A, for each Dividend Period, shall be a rate per annum equal
to the greater of (1) 0.75% above LIBOR (as defined below) for such Dividend Period and (2) 3.75%.
LIBOR, with respect to any Dividend Period, means the offered rate expressed as a percentage per
annum for three-month deposits in U.S. dollars on the first day of such Dividend Period, as that
rate appears on Moneyline Telerate Page 3750 as of 11:00 A.M., London time, on the second London
Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period.

If the rate described in the preceding paragraph does not appear on Moneyline Telerate Page
3750, LIBOR shall be determined on the basis of the rates, at approximately 11:00 A.M., London
time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend
Period, at which deposits of the following kind are offered to prime banks in the London interbank
market by four major banks in that market selected by the Calculation Agent: three-month deposits
in U.S. dollars, beginning on the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a Representative
Amount. The Calculation Agent shall request the principal London office of each of these banks to
provide a quotation of its rate at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time. If at least two
quotations are provided, LIBOR for such Dividend Period shall be the arithmetic mean of such
quotations.

If fewer than two quotations are provided as described in the preceding paragraph, LIBOR for
such Dividend Period shall be the arithmetic mean of the rates for loans of the following kind to
leading European banks quoted, at approximately 11:00 A.M. New York City time, on the second London
Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period, by three major banks in
New York City selected by the Calculation Agent: three-month loans of U.S. dollars, beginning on
the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a Representative Amount.

If fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as described in the
preceding paragraph, LIBOR for such Dividend Period shall be LIBOR in effect for the prior Dividend
Period.

The Calculation Agent s determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation of the amount
of dividends for any Dividend Period, will be maintained on

A-4 

file at the Corporation s principal offices and will be available to any stockholder upon
request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.

Holders of Series A shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash,
securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series A as
specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designations).

(b)  Priority of Dividends . So long as any share of Series A remains outstanding, no dividend
shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than a
dividend payable solely in Junior Stock), and no Common Stock or other Junior Stock shall be
purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or
indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior
Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of
Junior Stock and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale
of Junior Stock) during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividends for the latest completed
Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of Series A have been declared and paid (or declared and
a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing provision shall not
restrict the ability of Goldman, Sachs   Co., or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage
in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.

When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside)
on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates
different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend
Period) in full upon the Series A and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on the
Series A and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of
parity stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend
payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be
declared pro rata so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to
each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series A and all Parity Stock
payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment
dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the
Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) bear to each other.

Subject to the foregoing, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as
may be determined by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee
of the Board of Directors) may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and
other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and the
Series A shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.

A-5 

Section 5. Liquidation Rights .

(a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Series A
shall be entitled to receive, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether
capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, and after
satisfaction of all liabilities and obligations to creditors of the Corporation, before any
distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and
any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series A as to such distribution, in full
an amount equal to $25,000 per share (the  Series A Liquidation Amount ), together with an amount
equal to all dividends (if any) that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment
of such distribution (but without any amount in respect of dividends that have not been declared
prior to such payment date).

(b)  Partial Payment . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the
Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preferences (as defined
below) in full to all holders of Series A and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking
equally with the Series A as to such distribution, the amounts paid to the holders of Series A and
to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid pro rata in accordance with the respective
aggregate Liquidation Preferences of the holders of Series A and the holders of all such other
stock. In any such distribution, the  Liquidation Preference  of any holder of stock of the
Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming
no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an
amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other
than Series A and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid,
accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable).

(c)  Residual Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all
holders of Series A, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all
remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and
preferences.

(d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5,
the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity,
including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series A receive cash, securities or
other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other
property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

Section 6. Redemption .

(a)  Optional Redemption . The Series A may not be redeemed by the Corporation prior to
April 25, 2010. On or after April 25, 2010, the Corporation, at its

A-6 

option, may redeem, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, the shares of Series A
at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price
equal to $25,000 per share, together (except as otherwise provided herein below) with an amount
equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid prior to the redemption date (but with
no amount in respect of any dividends that have not been declared prior to such date). The
redemption price for any shares of Series A shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder
of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or
its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent
to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to
receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of
record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as
provided in Section 4 above.

(b)  No Sinking Fund . The Series A will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking
fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Series A will have no right to require redemption of
any shares of Series A.

(c)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series A shall be given by
first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed
at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall
be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice
mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given,
whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or
any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series A designated
for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other
shares of Series A. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series A or any depositary shares
representing interests in the Series A are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust
Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series A
at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a holder
shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series A to be redeemed and, if
less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be
redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates
for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.

(d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series A at
the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either pro rata or in such other
manner as the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions
hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions
upon which shares of Series A shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares
represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the
unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.

A-7 

(e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or
before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been
set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the pro rata
benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be
available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for
redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends
shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption
shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on
such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive
the amount payable on such redemption, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three
years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the
Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to
the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.

Section 7. Conversion Upon Regulatory Changes . If both (i) and (ii) below occur:

(i) after the date of the issuance of the Series A, the Corporation (by election or
otherwise) becomes subject to any law, rule, regulation or guidance (together,
 Regulations ) relating to its capital adequacy, which Regulation (x) modifies the existing
requirements for treatment as Allowable Capital (as defined under the Securities and
Exchange Commission rules relating to consolidated supervised entities as in effect from
time to time), (y) provides for a type or level of capital characterized as  Tier 1  or its
equivalent pursuant to Regulations of any governmental agency, authority or other body
having regulatory jurisdiction over the Corporation (or any of its subsidiaries or
consolidated affiliates) and implementing the capital standards published by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any other United States national governmental
agency, authority or other body, or any other applicable regime based on capital standards
published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision or its successor, or (z) provides
for a type or level of capital that in the judgment of the Corporation (after consultation
with legal counsel of recognized standing) is substantially equivalent to such  Tier 1 
capital (such capital described in either (y) or (z) above is referred to below as  Tier 1
Capital Equivalent ), and

(ii) the Corporation affirmatively elects to qualify the Series A for treatment as
Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent without any sublimit or other quantitative
restriction on the inclusion of the Series A in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital
Equivalent (other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation
requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant
form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) under such Regulations,

A-8 

then, upon such affirmative election, the Series A shall be convertible at the Corporation s option
into a new series of Preferred Stock having terms and provisions substantially identical to those
of the Series A, except that such new series may have such additional or modified rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, as are
necessary in the judgment of the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized
committee of the Board of Directors) (after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing)
to comply with the Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions (as defined below),  provided  that the
Corporation will not cause any such conversion unless the Board of Directors or the Committee (or
another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) determines that the rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions
thereof, of such new series of Preferred Stock, taken as a whole, are not materially less favorable
to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and the
qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series A, taken as a whole.

As used above, the term  Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions  means such terms and
provisions as are, in the judgment of the Corporation (after consultation with counsel of
recognized standing), required for preferred stock to be treated as Allowable Capital or Tier 1
Capital Equivalent, as applicable, without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the
inclusion of such preferred stock in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent, as applicable
(other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation requiring that
common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Allowable
Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) pursuant to the applicable Regulations.

The Corporation shall provide notice to the holders of Series A of any election to qualify the
Series A for Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent treatment and of any determination to
convert the Series A into a new series of Preferred Stock pursuant to the terms of this Section 7,
promptly upon the effectiveness of any such election or determination. A copy of such notice and of
the relevant Regulations shall be maintained on file at the principal offices of the Corporation
and, upon request, will be made available to any stockholder of the Corporation. Any conversion of
the Series A pursuant to this Section 7 shall be effected pursuant to such procedures as the
Corporation may determine and publicly disclose.

Except as specified in this Section 7, holders of Series A shares shall have no right to
exchange or convert such shares into any other securities.

Section 8. Voting Rights .

(a)  General . The holders of Series A shall not have any voting rights except as set forth
below or as otherwise from to time required by law.

(b)  Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events . If and whenever dividends on any
shares of Series A shall not have been declared and paid for at least six Dividend Periods, whether
or not consecutive (a  Nonpayment Event ), the number of directors then constituting the Board of
Directors shall automatically be

A-9 

increased by two and the holders of Series A, together with the holders of any outstanding
shares of Voting Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be entitled to elect the
two additional directors (the  Preferred Stock Directors ),  provided  that it shall be a
qualification for election for any such Preferred Stock Director that the election of such director
shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirement of the New York
Stock Exchange (or any other securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of
the Corporation may then be listed or traded) that listed or traded companies must have a majority
of independent directors.

In the event that the holders of the Series A, and such other holders of Voting Preferred
Stock, shall be entitled to vote for the election of the Preferred Stock Directors following a
Nonpayment Event, such directors shall be initially elected following such Nonpayment Event only at
a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series A or
of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (unless such request for a special
meeting is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting
of the stockholders of the Corporation, in which event such election shall be held only at such
next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting of
stockholders of the Corporation. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election
of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event shall be made by written notice, signed
by the requisite holders of Series A or Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of
the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 10 below, or as may otherwise be required
by law.

When dividends have been paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside)
in full on the Series A for at least four Dividend Periods (whether or not consecutive) after a
Nonpayment Event, then the right of the holders of Series A to elect the Preferred Stock Directors
shall cease (but subject always to revesting of such voting rights in the case of any future
Nonpayment Event), and, if and when any rights of holders of Series A and Voting Preferred Stock to
elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall have ceased, the terms of office of all the Preferred
Stock Directors shall forthwith terminate and the number of directors constituting the Board of
Directors shall automatically be reduced accordingly.

Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record
of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series A and Voting Preferred Stock, when they have
the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class). So long as a Nonpayment
Event shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to
the initial election of Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event) may be filled by the
written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office,
by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series A and all
Voting Preferred Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a
single class). Any such vote of stockholders to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a
Preferred Stock Director may be taken only at a special meeting of such stockholders, called as
provided above for an initial election of Preferred Stock Director

A-10 

after a Nonpayment Event (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date
fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election
shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock
Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the
Board of Directors for a vote. Each Preferred Stock Director elected at any special meeting of
stockholders or by written consent of the other Preferred Stock Director shall hold office until
the next annual meeting of the stockholders if such office shall not have previously terminated as
above provided.

(c)  Other Voting Rights . So long as any shares of Series A are outstanding, in addition to
any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation,
the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 % of the shares of Series A and any Voting
Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single
class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting
called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:

(i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of
Incorporation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of
any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series A with
respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;

(ii)  Amendment of Series A . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of
the Certificate of Incorporation so as to materially and adversely affect the special
rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series A, taken as a whole; or

(iii)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations . Any
consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series A, or of
a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity,
unless in each case (x) the shares of Series A remain outstanding or, in the case of any
such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or
resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the
surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining
outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken
as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the
Series A immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;

provided ,  however , that for all purposes of this Section 8(c), any increase in the amount of the
authorized or issued Series A or authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance, or an
increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other series of

A-11 

Preferred Stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the Series A with respect to the payment of
dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of
assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to
adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series A. In
addition, any conversion of the Series A pursuant to Section 7 above shall not be deemed to
adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series A.

If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or
consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect the Series A and one or more
but not all other series of Preferred Stock, then only the Series A and such series of Preferred
Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter
together as a single class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock).

(d)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the holders of the Series A, so long as
such action does not adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges and voting
powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series A, the Corporation may amend,
alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series A:

(i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this
Certificate of Designations that may be defective or inconsistent; or

(ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the
Series A that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.

(e)  Changes after Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of Series A
shall be required pursuant to Section 8(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when any
such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares
of Series A shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice
and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to
Section 6 above.

(f)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting
any meeting of the holders of Series A (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date
in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of
written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents
shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized
committee of the Board of Directors), in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules
and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws,
applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series A
is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality,
majority or other portion of the shares of Series A and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or
given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series A are

A-12 

entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified
liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.

Section 9. Record Holders . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation
and the transfer agent for the Series A may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series
A as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such
transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.

Section 10. Notices . All notices or communications in respect of Series A shall be
sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage
prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations,
in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law.

Section 11. No Preemptive Rights . No share of Series A shall have any rights of preemption
whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or
granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or
options, may be designated, issued or granted.

Section 12. Other Rights . The shares of Series A shall not have any voting powers,
preferences or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications,
limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of
Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.

A-13 

Appendix B 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 

OF 

6.20% NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES B 

OF 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC ., a corporation organized and existing under the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  Corporation ), in accordance with the provisions of
Sections 103 and 151 thereof, DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:

The Securities Issuance Committee (the  Committee ) of the board of directors of the
Corporation (the  Board of Directors ), in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of
Directors dated September 16, 2005, the provisions of the amended and restated certificate of
incorporation and bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, by unanimous written consent dated
October 25, 2005, adopted the following resolution creating a series of 50,000 shares of Preferred
Stock of the Corporation designated as  6.20% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B .

RESOLVED , that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the
resolutions of the Board of Directors dated September 16, 2005, the provisions of the amended and
restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of
Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that
the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, preferences
and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and
restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:

Section 1. Designation . The distinctive serial designation of such series of Preferred Stock
is  6.20% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B  ( Series B ). Each share of Series B shall be
identical in all respects to every other share of Series B, except as to the respective dates from
which dividends thereon shall accrue, to the extent such dates may differ as permitted pursuant to
Section 4(a) below.

Section 2. Number of Shares . The authorized number of shares of Series B shall be 50,000.
Shares of Series B that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or
converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized
but unissued shares of Series B.

Section 3. Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series B:

(a)  Board of Directors  means the board of directors of the Corporation.

(b)  ByLaws  means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be
amended from time to time.

(c)  Business Day  means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or
Friday and is not a day on which banking institutions in New York City generally are
authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.

(d)  Certificate of Designations  means this Certificate of Designations relating to
the Series B, as it may be amended from time to time.

(e)  Certification of Incorporation  shall mean the amended and restated certificate
of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall
include this Certificate of Designations.

(f)  Common Stock  means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the
Corporation.

(g)  Junior Stock  means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of
the Corporation (other than Series B) that ranks junior to Series B either or both as to
the payment of dividends and/or as to the distribution of assets on any liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

(h)  Parity Stock  means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than
Series B) that ranks equally with Series B both in the payment of dividends and in the
distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

(i)  Preferred Stock  means any and all series of Preferred Stock, having a par value
of $0.01 per share, of the Corporation, including the Series B.

(j)  Voting Preferred Stock  means, with regard to any election or removal of a
Preferred Stock Director (as defined in Section 8(b) below) or any other matter as to which
the holders of Series B are entitled to vote as specified in Section 8 of this Certificate
of Designations, any and all series of Preferred Stock (other than Series B) that rank
equally with Series B either as to the payment of dividends or as to the distribution of
assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like
voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter.

B-2 

Section 4. Dividends .

(a)  Rate . Holders of Series B shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the
Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of
Directors) out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law,
non-cumulative cash dividends at a rate per annum of 6.20% applied to the liquidation preference
amount of $25,000 per share of Series B. Such dividends shall be payable quarterly in arrears (as
provided below in this Section 4(a)), but only when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors
or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors), on February 10,
May 10, August 10 and November 10 ( Dividend Payment Dates ), commencing on February 10, 2006;
 provided  that if any such Dividend Payment Date would otherwise occur on a day that is not a
Business Day, such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be (and any dividend payable on Series B on
such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be payable on) the immediately succeeding Business Day.
Dividends on Series B shall not be cumulative; holders of Series B shall not be entitled to receive
any dividends not declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized
committee of the Board of Directors) and no interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be
payable in respect of any dividend not so declared.

Dividends that are payable on Series B on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders
of record of Series B as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable
record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other
record date fixed by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee
of the Board of Directors) that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend
Payment Date (each, a  Dividend Record Date ). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be
a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.

Each dividend period (a  Dividend Period ) shall commence on and include a Dividend Payment
Date (other than the initial Dividend Period, which shall commence on and include the date of
original issue of the Series B,  provided  that, for any share of Series B issued after such original
issue date, the initial Dividend Period for such shares may commence on and include such other date
as the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of
Directors) shall determine and publicly disclose) and shall end on and include the calendar day
next preceding the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the Series B in respect of any
Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day
months. Dividends payable in respect of a Dividend Period shall be payable in arrears    
i.e., on the first Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Period.

Holders of Series B shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash,
securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series B as
specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designations).

B-3 

(b)  Priority of Dividends . So long as any share of Series B remains outstanding, no dividend
shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than a
dividend payable solely in Junior Stock), and no Common Stock or other Junior Stock shall be
purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or
indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior
Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of
Junior Stock and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale
of Junior Stock) during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividends for the latest completed
Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of Series B have been declared and paid (or declared and
a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing provision shall not
restrict the ability of Goldman, Sachs   Co., or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage
in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.

When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside)
on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates
different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend
Period) in full upon the Series B and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on the
Series B and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of
parity stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend
payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be
declared pro rata so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to
each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series B and all Parity Stock
payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment
dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the
Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) bear to each other.

Subject to the foregoing, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as
may be determined by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee
of the Board of Directors) may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and
other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and the
Series B shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.

Section 5. Liquidation Rights .

(a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Series B
shall be entitled to receive, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether
capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, and after
satisfaction of all liabilities and obligations to creditors of the Corporation, before any
distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and
any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series B as to such distribution, in full
an amount equal to $25,000

B-4 

per share (the  Series B Liquidation Amount ), together with an amount equal to all dividends
(if any) that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment of such distribution
(but without any amount in respect of dividends that have not been declared prior to such payment
date).

(b)  Partial Payment . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the
Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preferences (as defined
below) in full to all holders of Series B and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking
equally with the Series B as to such distribution, the amounts paid to the holders of Series B and
to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid pro rata in accordance with the respective
aggregate Liquidation Preferences of the holders of Series B and the holders of all such other
stock. In any such distribution, the  Liquidation Preference  of any holder of stock of the
Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming
no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an
amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other
than Series B and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid,
accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable).

(c)  Residual Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all
holders of Series B, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all
remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and
preferences.

(d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5,
the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity,
including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series B receive cash, securities or
other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other
property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

Section 6. Redemption .

(a)  Optional Redemption . The Series B may not be redeemed by the Corporation prior to October
31, 2010. On or after October 31, 2010, the Corporation, at its option, may redeem, in whole at
any time or in part from time to time, the shares of Series B at the time outstanding, upon notice
given as provided in Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to $25,000 per share, together
(except as otherwise provided herein below) with an amount equal to any dividends that have been
declared but not paid prior to the redemption date (but with no amount in respect of any dividends
that have not been declared prior to such date). The redemption price for any shares of Series B
shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the
certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid
dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a
Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the

B-5 

redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of
the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided
in Section 4 above.

(b)  No Sinking Fund . The Series B will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking
fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Series B will have no right to require redemption of
any shares of Series B.

(c)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series B shall be given by
first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed
at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall
be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice
mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given,
whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or
any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series B designated
for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other
shares of Series B. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series B or any depositary shares
representing interests in the Series B are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust
Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series B
at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a holder
shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series B to be redeemed and, if
less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be
redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates
for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.

(d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series B at
the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either pro rata or in such other
manner as the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions
hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions
upon which shares of Series B shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares
represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the
unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.

(e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or
before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been
set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the pro rata
benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be
available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for
redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends
shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption
shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on
such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive
the amount payable on such redemption, without interest. Any funds unclaimed

B-6 

at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.

Section 7. Conversion Upon Regulatory Changes . If both (i) and (ii) below occur:

(i) after the date of the issuance of the Series B, the Corporation (by election or
otherwise) becomes subject to any law, rule, regulation or guidance (together,
 Regulations ) relating to its capital adequacy, which Regulation (x) modifies the existing
requirements for treatment as Allowable Capital (as defined under the Securities and
Exchange Commission rules relating to consolidated supervised entities as in effect from
time to time), (y) provides for a type or level of capital characterized as  Tier 1  or its
equivalent pursuant to Regulations of any governmental agency, authority or other body
having regulatory jurisdiction over the Corporation (or any of its subsidiaries or
consolidated affiliates) and implementing the capital standards published by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any other United States national governmental
agency, authority or other body, or any other applicable regime based on capital standards
published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision or its successor, or (z) provides
for a type or level of capital that in the judgment of the Corporation (after consultation
with legal counsel of recognized standing) is substantially equivalent to such  Tier 1 
capital (such capital described in either (y) or (z) above is referred to below as  Tier 1
Capital Equivalent ), and

(ii) the Corporation affirmatively elects to qualify the Series B for treatment as
Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent without any sublimit or other quantitative
restriction on the inclusion of the Series B in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital
Equivalent (other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation
requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant
form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) under such Regulations,

then, upon such affirmative election, the Series B shall be convertible at the Corporation s option
into a new series of Preferred Stock having terms and provisions substantially identical to those
of the Series B, except that such new series may have such additional or modified rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, as are
necessary in the judgment of the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized
committee of the Board of Directors) (after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing)
to comply with the Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions (as defined below),  provided  that the
Corporation will not cause any such conversion unless the Board of Directors or the Committee (or
another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) determines that the rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions
thereof, of such new series of Preferred Stock, taken as a whole, are not

B-7 

materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and
voting powers, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series B, taken
as a whole.

As used above, the term  Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions  means such terms and
provisions as are, in the judgment of the Corporation (after consultation with counsel of
recognized standing), required for preferred stock to be treated as Allowable Capital or Tier 1
Capital Equivalent, as applicable, without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the
inclusion of such preferred stock in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent, as applicable
(other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation requiring that
common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Allowable
Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) pursuant to the applicable Regulations.

The Corporation shall provide notice to the holders of Series B of any election to qualify the
Series B for Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent treatment and of any determination to
convert the Series B into a new series of Preferred Stock pursuant to the terms of this Section 7,
promptly upon the effectiveness of any such election or determination. A copy of such notice and of
the relevant Regulations shall be maintained on file at the principal offices of the Corporation
and, upon request, will be made available to any stockholder of the Corporation. Any conversion of
the Series B pursuant to this Section 7 shall be effected pursuant to such procedures as the
Corporation may determine and publicly disclose.

Except as specified in this Section 7, holders of Series B shares shall have no right to
exchange or convert such shares into any other securities.

Section 8. Voting Rights .

(a)  General . The holders of Series B shall not have any voting rights except as set forth
below or as otherwise from to time required by law.

(b)  Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events . If and whenever dividends on any
shares of Series B shall not have been declared and paid for at least six Dividend Periods, whether
or not consecutive (a  Nonpayment Event ), the number of directors then constituting the Board of
Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of Series B, together with the
holders of any outstanding shares of Voting Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class,
shall be entitled to elect the two additional directors (the  Preferred Stock Directors ),  provided 
that it shall be a qualification for election for any such Preferred Stock Director that the
election of such director shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance
requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other securities exchange or other trading
facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded) that listed or traded
companies must have a majority of independent directors and  provided further  that the Board of
Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes
of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Preferred Stock are
entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).

B-8 

In the event that the holders of the Series B, and such other holders of Voting Preferred
Stock, shall be entitled to vote for the election of the Preferred Stock Directors following a
Nonpayment Event, such directors shall be initially elected following such Nonpayment Event only at
a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series B or
of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (unless such request for a special
meeting is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting
of the stockholders of the Corporation, in which event such election shall be held only at such
next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting of
stockholders of the Corporation. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election
of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event shall be made by written notice, signed
by the requisite holders of Series B or Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of
the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 10 below, or as may otherwise be required
by law.

When dividends have been paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside)
in full on the Series B for at least four Dividend Periods (whether or not consecutive) after a
Nonpayment Event, then the right of the holders of Series B to elect the Preferred Stock Directors
shall cease (but subject always to revesting of such voting rights in the case of any future
Nonpayment Event), and, if and when any rights of holders of Series B and Voting Preferred Stock to
elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall have ceased, the terms of office of all the Preferred
Stock Directors shall forthwith terminate and the number of directors constituting the Board of
Directors shall automatically be reduced accordingly.

Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record
of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series B and Voting Preferred Stock, when they have
the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class). So long as a Nonpayment
Event shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to
the initial election of Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event) may be filled by the
written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office,
by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series B and all
Voting Preferred Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a
single class). Any such vote of stockholders to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a
Preferred Stock Director may be taken only at a special meeting of such stockholders, called as
provided above for an initial election of Preferred Stock Director after a Nonpayment Event (unless
such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special
meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or
special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote
per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote. Each Preferred
Stock Director elected at any special meeting of stockholders or by written consent of the other
Preferred Stock Director shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders if
such office shall not have previously terminated as above provided.

B-9 

(c)  Other Voting Rights . So long as any shares of Series B are outstanding, in addition to
any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation,
the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 % of the shares of Series B and any Voting
Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single
class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting
called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:

(i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of
Incorporation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of
any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series B with
respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;

(ii)  Amendment of Series B . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of
the Certificate of Incorporation so as to materially and adversely affect the special
rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series B, taken as a whole; or

(iii)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations . Any
consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series B, or of
a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity,
unless in each case (x) the shares of Series B remain outstanding or, in the case of any
such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or
resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the
surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining
outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken
as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the
Series B immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;

provided ,  however , that for all purposes of this Section 8(c), any increase in the amount of the
authorized or issued Series B or authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance, or an
increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking equally
with and/or junior to the Series B with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends
are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution
or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences,
privileges or voting powers of the Series B. In addition, any conversion of the Series B pursuant
to Section 7 above shall not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and
voting powers of the Series B.

If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or
consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect the Series B

B-10 

and one or more but not all other series of Preferred Stock, then only the Series B and such
series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall
vote on the matter together as a single class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock).

(d)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the holders of the Series B, so long as
such action does not adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and
limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series B, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement
or repeal any terms of the Series B:

(i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this
Certificate of Designations that may be defective or inconsistent; or

(ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the
Series B that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.

(e)  Changes after Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of Series B
shall be required pursuant to Section 8(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when any
such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares
of Series B shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice
and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to
Section 6 above.

(f)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting
any meeting of the holders of Series B (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date
in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of
written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents
shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized
committee of the Board of Directors), in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules
and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws,
applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series B
is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality,
majority or other portion of the shares of Series B and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or
given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series B are entitled to vote shall be
determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted
or covered by the consent.

Section 9. Record Holders . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation
and the transfer agent for the Series B may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series
B as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such
transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.

Section 10. Notices . All notices or communications in respect of Series B shall be
sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first

B-11 

class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this
Certificate of Designations, in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law.

Section 11. No Preemptive Rights . No share of Series B shall have any rights of preemption
whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or
granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or
options, may be designated, issued or granted.

Section 12. Other Rights . The shares of Series B shall not have any voting powers, preferences or
relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or
restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as
provided by applicable law.

B-12 

Appendix C 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 

OF 

FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES C 

OF 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC ., a corporation organized and existing under the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  Corporation ), in accordance with the provisions of
Sections 103 and 151 thereof, DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:

The Securities Issuance Committee (the  Committee ) of the board of directors of the
Corporation (the  Board of Directors ), in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of
Directors dated September 16, 2005, the provisions of the amended and restated certificate of
incorporation and bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, by unanimous written consent dated
October 25, 2005, adopted the following resolution creating a series of 25,000 shares of Preferred
Stock of the Corporation designated as  Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series C .

RESOLVED , that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the
resolutions of the Board of Directors dated September 16, 2005, the provisions of the amended and
restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of
Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that
the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, preferences
and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and
restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:

Section 1.  Designation. The distinctive serial designation of such series of Preferred Stock
is  Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series C  ( Series C ). Each share of Series C
shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series C, except as to the respective
dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue, to the extent such dates may differ as permitted
pursuant to Section 4(a) below.

Section 2.  Number of Shares. The authorized number of shares of Series C shall be 25,000.
Shares of Series C that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or
converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized
but unissued shares of Series C.

Section 3.  Definitions. As used herein with respect to Series C:

(a)  Board of Directors  means the board of directors of the Corporation.

(b)  ByLaws  means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be
amended from time to time.

(c)  Business Day  means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or
Friday and is not a day on which banking institutions in New York City generally are
authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.

(d)  Calculation Agent  means, at any time, the person or entity appointed by the
Corporation and serving as such agent at such time. The Corporation may terminate any such
appointment and may appoint a successor agent at any time and from time to time,  provided 
that the Corporation shall use its best efforts to ensure that there is, at all relevant
times when the Series C is outstanding, a person or entity appointed and serving as such
agent. The Calculation Agent may be a person or entity affiliated with the Corporation.

(e)  Certificate of Designations  means this Certificate of Designations relating to
the Series C, as it may be amended from time to time.

(f)  Certification of Incorporation  shall mean the amended and restated certificate
of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall
include this Certificate of Designations.

(g)  Common Stock  means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the
Corporation.

(h)  Junior Stock  means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of
the Corporation (other than Series C) that ranks junior to Series C either or both as to
the payment of dividends and/or as to the distribution of assets on any liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

(i)  London Business Day  means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday
or Friday and is a day on which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London
interbank market.

(j)  Moneyline Telerate Page  means the display on Moneyline Telerate, Inc., or any
successor service, on the page or pages specified in Section 4 below or any replacement
page or pages on that service.

(k)  Parity Stock  means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than
Series C) that ranks equally with Series C both in the payment of dividends and in the
distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

C-2 

(l)  Preferred Stock  means any and all series of Preferred Stock, having a par value
of $0.01 per share, of the Corporation, including the Series C.

(m)  Representative Amount  means, at any time, an amount that, in the Calculation
Agent s judgment, is representative of a single transaction in the relevant market at the
relevant time.

(n)  Voting Preferred Stock  means, with regard to any election or removal of a
Preferred Stock Director (as defined in Section 8(b) below) or any other matter as to which
the holders of Series C are entitled to vote as specified in Section 8 of this Certificate
of Designations, any and all series of Preferred Stock (other than Series C)
that rank equally with Series C either as to the payment of dividends or as to the
distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and
upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such
matter.

Section 4. Dividends .

(a)  Rate . Holders of Series C shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the
Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of
Directors) out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law,
non-cumulative cash dividends at the rate determined as set forth below in this Section (4) applied
to the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of Series C. Such dividends shall be
payable quarterly in arrears (as provided below in this Section 4(a)), but only when, as and if
declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the
Board of Directors), on February 10, May 10, August 10 and November 10 ( Dividend Payment Dates ),
commencing on February 10, 2006;  provided  that if any such Dividend Payment Date would otherwise
occur on a day that is not a Business Day, such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be (and any
dividend payable on Series C on such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be payable on) the
immediately succeeding Business Day, unless such immediately succeeding Business Day falls in the
next calendar month, in which case such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be (and any such
dividend shall instead be payable on) the immediately preceding Business Day. Dividends on Series C
shall not be cumulative; holders of Series C shall not be entitled to receive any dividends not
declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the
Board of Directors) and no interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in
respect of any dividend not so declared.

Dividends that are payable on Series C on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders
of record of Series C as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable
record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other
record date fixed by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee
of the Board of Directors) that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend
Payment Date (each, a  Dividend Record Date ). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be
a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.

C-3 

Each dividend period (a  Dividend Period ) shall commence on and include a Dividend Payment
Date (other than the initial Dividend Period, which shall commence on and include the date of
original issue of the Series C,  provided  that, for any share of Series C issued after such original
issue date, the initial Dividend Period for such shares may commence on and include such other date
as the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of
Directors) shall determine and publicly disclose) and shall end on and include the calendar day
next preceding the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the Series C in respect of any
Dividend Period shall be computed by the Calculation Agent on the basis of a 360-day year and the
actual number of days elapsed in such Dividend Period. Dividends payable in respect of a Dividend
Period shall be payable in arrears     i.e., on the first Dividend Payment Date after such
Dividend Period.

The dividend rate on the Series C, for each Dividend Period, shall be a rate per annum equal
to the greater of (1) 0.75% above LIBOR (as defined below) for such Dividend Period and (2) 4.00%.
LIBOR, with respect to any Dividend Period, means the offered rate
expressed as a percentage per annum for three-month deposits in U.S. dollars on the first day
of such Dividend Period, as that rate appears on Moneyline Telerate Page 3750 as of 11:00 A.M.,
London time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend
Period.

If the rate described in the preceding paragraph does not appear on Moneyline Telerate Page
3750, LIBOR shall be determined on the basis of the rates, at approximately 11:00 A.M., London
time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend
Period, at which deposits of the following kind are offered to prime banks in the London interbank
market by four major banks in that market selected by the Calculation Agent: three-month deposits
in U.S. dollars, beginning on the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a Representative
Amount. The Calculation Agent shall request the principal London office of each of these banks to
provide a quotation of its rate at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time. If at least two
quotations are provided, LIBOR for such Dividend Period shall be the arithmetic mean of such
quotations.

If fewer than two quotations are provided as described in the preceding paragraph, LIBOR for
such Dividend Period shall be the arithmetic mean of the rates for loans of the following kind to
leading European banks quoted, at approximately 11:00 A.M. New York City time, on the second London
Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period, by three major banks in
New York City selected by the Calculation Agent: three-month loans of U.S. dollars, beginning on
the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a Representative Amount.

If fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as described in the
preceding paragraph, LIBOR for such Dividend Period shall be LIBOR in effect for the prior Dividend
Period.

The Calculation Agent s determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation of the amount
of dividends for any Dividend Period, will be maintained on

C-4 

file at the Corporation s principal
offices and will be available to any stockholder upon request and will be final and binding in the
absence of manifest error.

Holders of Series C shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash,
securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series C as
specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designations).

(b)  Priority of Dividends . So long as any share of Series C remains outstanding, no dividend
shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than a
dividend payable solely in Junior Stock), and no Common Stock or other Junior Stock shall be
purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or
indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior
Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of
Junior Stock and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale
of Junior Stock) during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividends for the latest completed
Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of Series C have been declared and paid (or declared and
a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing provision shall not
restrict the ability of Goldman, Sachs   Co., or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage
in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.

When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside)
on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates
different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend
Period) in full upon the Series C and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on the
Series C and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of
parity stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend
payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be
declared pro rata so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to
each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series C and all Parity Stock
payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment
dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the
Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) bear to each other.

Subject to the foregoing, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as
may be determined by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee
of the Board of Directors) may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and
other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and the
Series C shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.

C-5 

Section 5. Liquidation Rights .

(a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Series C
shall be entitled to receive, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether
capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, and after
satisfaction of all liabilities and obligations to creditors of the Corporation, before any
distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and
any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series C as to such distribution, in full
an amount equal to $25,000 per share (the  Series C Liquidation Amount ), together with an amount
equal to all dividends (if any) that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment
of such distribution (but without any amount in respect of dividends that have not been declared
prior to such payment date).

(b)  Partial Payment . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the
Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preferences (as defined
below) in full to all holders of Series C and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking
equally with the Series C as to such distribution, the amounts paid to the holders of Series C and
to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid pro rata in accordance with the respective
aggregate Liquidation Preferences of the holders of Series C and the holders of all such other
stock. In any such distribution, the  Liquidation Preference  of any holder of stock of the
Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming
no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an
amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other
than Series C and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid,
accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable).

(c)  Residual Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all
holders of Series C, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all
remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and
preferences.

(d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5,
the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity,
including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series C receive cash, securities or
other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other
property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

Section 6. Redemption .

(a)  Optional Redemption . The Series C may not be redeemed by the Corporation prior to October
31, 2010. On or after October 31, 2010, the Corporation, at

C-6 

its option, may redeem, in whole at
any time or in part from time to time, the shares of Series C at the time outstanding, upon notice
given as provided in Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to $25,000 per share, together
(except as otherwise provided herein below) with an amount equal to any dividends that have been
declared but not paid prior to the redemption date (but with no amount in respect of any dividends
that have not been declared prior to such date). The redemption price for any shares of Series C
shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the
certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid
dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a
Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the
redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such
Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above.

(b)  No Sinking Fund . The Series C will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking
fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Series C will have no right to require redemption of
any shares of Series C.

(c)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series C shall be given by
first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed
at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall
be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice
mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given,
whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or
any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series C designated
for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other
shares of Series C. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series C or any depositary shares
representing interests in the Series C are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust
Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series C
at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a holder
shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series C to be redeemed and, if
less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be
redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates
for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.

(d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series C at
the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either pro rata or in such other
manner as the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions
hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions
upon which shares of Series C shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares
represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the
unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.

C-7 

(e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or
before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been
set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the pro rata
benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be
available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for
redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends
shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption
shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on
such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive
the amount payable on such redemption, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three
years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the
Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to
the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.

Section 7. Conversion Upon Regulatory Changes . If both (i) and (ii) below occur:

(i) after the date of the issuance of the Series C, the Corporation (by election or
otherwise) becomes subject to any law, rule, regulation or guidance (together,
 Regulations ) relating to its capital adequacy, which Regulation (x) modifies the existing
requirements for treatment as Allowable Capital (as defined under the Securities and
Exchange Commission rules relating to consolidated supervised entities as in effect from
time to time), (y) provides for a type or level of capital characterized as  Tier 1  or its
equivalent pursuant to Regulations of any governmental agency, authority or other body
having regulatory jurisdiction over the Corporation (or any of its subsidiaries or
consolidated affiliates) and implementing the capital standards published by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any other United States national governmental
agency, authority or other body, or any other applicable regime based on capital standards
published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision or its successor, or (z) provides
for a type or level of capital that in the judgment of the Corporation (after consultation
with legal counsel of recognized standing) is substantially equivalent to such  Tier 1 
capital (such capital described in either (y) or (z) above is referred to below as  Tier 1
Capital Equivalent ), and

(ii) the Corporation affirmatively elects to qualify the Series C for treatment as
Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent without any sublimit or other quantitative
restriction on the inclusion of the Series C in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital
Equivalent (other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation
requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant
form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) under such Regulations,

C-8 

then, upon such affirmative election, the Series C shall be convertible at the Corporation s option
into a new series of Preferred Stock having terms and provisions substantially identical to those
of the Series C, except that such new series may have such additional or modified rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, as are
necessary in the judgment of the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized
committee of the Board of Directors) (after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing)
to comply with the Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions (as defined below),  provided  that the
Corporation will not cause any such conversion unless the Board of Directors or the Committee (or
another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) determines that the rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions
thereof, of such new series of Preferred Stock, taken as a whole, are not materially less favorable
to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and the
qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series C, taken as a whole.

As used above, the term  Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions  means such terms and
provisions as are, in the judgment of the Corporation (after consultation with counsel of
recognized standing), required for preferred stock to be treated as Allowable Capital or Tier 1
Capital Equivalent, as applicable, without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the
inclusion of such preferred stock in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent, as applicable
(other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation requiring that
common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Allowable
Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) pursuant to the applicable Regulations.

The Corporation shall provide notice to the holders of Series C of any election to qualify the
Series C for Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent treatment and of any determination to
convert the Series C into a new series of Preferred Stock pursuant to the terms of this Section 7,
promptly upon the effectiveness of any such election or determination. A copy of such notice and of
the relevant Regulations shall be maintained on file at the principal offices of the Corporation
and, upon request, will be made available to any stockholder of the Corporation. Any conversion of
the Series C pursuant to this Section 7 shall be effected pursuant to such procedures as the
Corporation may determine and publicly disclose.

Except as specified in this Section 7, holders of Series C shares shall have no right to
exchange or convert such shares into any other securities.

Section 8. Voting Rights .

(a)  General . The holders of Series C shall not have any voting rights except as set forth
below or as otherwise from to time required by law.

(b)  Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events . If and whenever dividends on any
shares of Series C shall not have been declared and paid for at least six Dividend Periods, whether
or not consecutive (a  Nonpayment Event ), the number of directors then constituting the Board of
Directors shall automatically be

C-9 

increased by two and the holders of Series C, together with the holders of any outstanding shares of Voting Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class,
shall be entitled to elect the two additional directors (the  Preferred Stock Directors ),  provided 
that it shall be a qualification for election for any such Preferred Stock Director that the
election of such director shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance
requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other securities exchange or other trading
facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded) that listed or traded
companies must have a majority of independent directors and
 provided further  that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred
Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any
series of Voting Preferred Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).

In the event that the holders of the Series C, and such other holders of Voting Preferred
Stock, shall be entitled to vote for the election of the Preferred Stock Directors following a
Nonpayment Event, such directors shall be initially elected following such Nonpayment Event only at
a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series C or
of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (unless such request for a special
meeting is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting
of the stockholders of the Corporation, in which event such election shall be held only at such
next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting of
stockholders of the Corporation. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election
of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event shall be made by written notice, signed
by the requisite holders of Series C or Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of
the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 10 below, or as may otherwise be required
by law.

When dividends have been paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside)
in full on the Series C for at least four Dividend Periods (whether or not consecutive) after a
Nonpayment Event, then the right of the holders of Series C to elect the Preferred Stock Directors
shall cease (but subject always to revesting of such voting rights in the case of any future
Nonpayment Event), and, if and when any rights of holders of Series C and Voting Preferred Stock to
elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall have ceased, the terms of office of all the Preferred
Stock Directors shall forthwith terminate and the number of directors constituting the Board of
Directors shall automatically be reduced accordingly.

Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record
of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series C and Voting Preferred Stock, when they have
the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class). So long as a Nonpayment
Event shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to
the initial election of Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event) may be filled by the
written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office,
by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series C and all
Voting Preferred Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a
single class). Any such vote of stockholders to remove, or to fill a vacancy

C-10 

in the office of, a Preferred Stock Director may be taken only at a special meeting of such
stockholders, called as provided above for an initial election of Preferred Stock Director after a
Nonpayment Event (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the
next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at
such next annual or special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be
entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a
vote. Each Preferred Stock Director elected at any special meeting of stockholders or by written
consent of the other Preferred Stock Director shall hold office until the next annual meeting of
the stockholders if such office shall not have previously terminated as above provided.

(c)  Other Voting Rights . So long as any shares of Series C are outstanding, in addition to
any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation,
the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 % of the shares of Series C and any Voting
Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single
class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting
called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:

(i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of
Incorporation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of
any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series C with
respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;

(ii)  Amendment of Series C . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of
the Certificate of Incorporation so as to materially and adversely affect the special
rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series C, taken as a whole; or

(iii)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations . Any
consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series C, or of
a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity,
unless in each case (x) the shares of Series C remain outstanding or, in the case of any
such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or
resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the
surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining
outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken
as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the
Series C immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;

C-11 

provided ,  however , that for all purposes of this Section 8(c), any increase in the amount of the
authorized or issued Series C or authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance, or an
increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking equally
with and/or junior to the Series C with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends
are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution
or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences,
privileges or voting powers of the Series C. In addition, any conversion of the Series C pursuant
to Section 7 above shall not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and
voting powers of the Series C.

If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or
consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect the Series C and one or more
but not all other series of Preferred Stock, then only the Series C and such series of Preferred
Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter
together as a single class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock).

(d)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the holders of the Series C, so long as
such action does not adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and
limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series C, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement
or repeal any terms of the Series C:

(i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this
Certificate of Designations that may be defective or inconsistent; or

(ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the
Series C that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.

(e)  Changes after Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of Series C
shall be required pursuant to Section 8(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when any
such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares
of Series C shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice
and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to
Section 6 above.

(f)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting
any meeting of the holders of Series C (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date
in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of
written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents
shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized
committee of the Board of Directors), in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules
and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws,
applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series C
is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality,
majority or other portion of the shares of Series C and any Voting Preferred

C-12 

Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series C are
entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation
amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.

Section 9. Record Holders . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation
and the transfer agent for the Series C may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series
C as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such
transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.

Section 10. Notices . All notices or communications in respect of Series C shall be
sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage
prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations,
in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law.

Section 11. No Preemptive Rights . No share of Series C shall have any rights of preemption
whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or
granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or
options, may be designated, issued or granted.

Section 12. Other Rights . The shares of Series C shall not have any voting powers,
preferences or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications,
limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of
Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.

C-13 

Appendix D 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 

OF 

FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES D 

OF 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC ., a corporation organized and existing under the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  Corporation ), in accordance with the provisions of
Sections 103 and 151 thereof, DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:

The Securities Issuance Committee (the  Committee ) of the board of directors of the
Corporation (the  Board of Directors ), in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of
Directors dated September 16, 2005, the provisions of the restated certificate of incorporation and
the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, by unanimous written consent
dated May 16, 2005, adopted the following resolution creating a series of 60,000 shares of
Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated as  Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock,
Series D .

RESOLVED , that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the
resolutions of the Board of Directors dated September 16, 2005, the provisions of the restated
certificate of incorporation and the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation and applicable
law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation be and hereby is
created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other
powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications,
limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:

Section 1. Designation . The distinctive serial designation of such series of Preferred Stock
is  Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D  ( Series D ). Each share of Series D
shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series D, except as to the respective
dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue, to the extent such dates may differ as permitted
pursuant to Section 4(a) below.

Section 2. Number of Shares . The authorized number of shares of Series D shall be 60,000.
Shares of Series D that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or
converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized
but unissued shares of Series D.

Section 3. Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series D:

(a)  Board of Directors  means the board of directors of the Corporation.

(b)  ByLaws  means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be
amended from time to time.

(c)  Business Day  means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or
Friday and is not a day on which banking institutions in New York City generally are
authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.

(d)  Calculation Agent  means, at any time, the person or entity appointed by the
Corporation and serving as such agent at such time. The Corporation may terminate any such
appointment and may appoint a successor agent at any time and from time to time,  provided 
that the Corporation shall use its best efforts to ensure that there is, at all relevant
times when the Series D is outstanding, a person or entity appointed and serving as such
agent. The Calculation Agent may be a person or entity affiliated with the Corporation.

(e)  Certificate of Designations  means this Certificate of Designations relating to
the Series D, as it may be amended from time to time.

(f)  Certification of Incorporation  shall mean the restated certificate of
incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include
this Certificate of Designations.

(g)  Common Stock  means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the
Corporation.

(h)  Junior Stock  means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of
the Corporation (other than Series D) that ranks junior to Series D either or both as to
the payment of dividends and/or as to the distribution of assets on any liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

(i)  London Business Day  means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday
or Friday and is a day on which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London
interbank market.

(j)  Moneyline Telerate Page  means the display on Moneyline Telerate, Inc., or any
successor service, on the page or pages specified in Section 4 below or any replacement
page or pages on that service.

(k)  Parity Stock  means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than
Series D) that ranks equally with Series D both in the payment of dividends and in the
distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

D-2 

(l)  Preferred Stock  means any and all series of Preferred Stock, having a par value
of $0.01 per share, of the Corporation, including the Series D.

(m)  Representative Amount  means, at any time, an amount that, in the Calculation
Agent s judgment, is representative of a single transaction in the relevant market at the
relevant time.

(n)  Voting Preferred Stock  means, with regard to any election or removal of a
Preferred Stock Director (as defined in Section 8(b) below) or any other matter as to which
the holders of Series D are entitled to vote as specified in Section 8 of this Certificate
of Designations, any and all series of Preferred Stock (other than Series D) that rank
equally with Series D either as to the payment of dividends or as to the distribution of
assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like
voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter.

Section 4. Dividends .

(a)  Rate . Holders of Series D shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the
Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of
Directors) out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law,
non-cumulative cash dividends at the rate determined as set forth below in this Section (4) applied
to the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of Series D. Such dividends shall be
payable quarterly in arrears (as provided below in this Section 4(a)), but only when, as and if
declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the
Board of Directors), on February 10, May 10, August 10 and November 10 ( Dividend Payment Dates ),
commencing on August 10, 2006;  provided  that if any such Dividend Payment Date would otherwise
occur on a day that is not a Business Day, such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be (and any
dividend payable on Series D on such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be payable on) the
immediately succeeding Business Day, unless such immediately succeeding Business Day falls in the
next calendar month, in which case such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be (and any such
dividend shall instead be payable on) the immediately preceding Business Day. Dividends on Series D
shall not be cumulative; holders of Series D shall not be entitled to receive any dividends not
declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the
Board of Directors) and no interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in
respect of any dividend not so declared.

Dividends that are payable on Series D on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders
of record of Series D as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable
record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other
record date fixed by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee
of the Board of Directors) that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend
Payment Date (each, a  Dividend Record Date ). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall
be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.

D-3 

Each dividend period (a  Dividend Period ) shall commence on and include a Dividend Payment
Date (other than the initial Dividend Period, which shall commence on and include the date of
original issue of the Series D,  provided  that, for any share of Series D issued after such original
issue date, the initial Dividend Period for such shares may commence on and include such other date
as the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of
Directors) shall determine and publicly disclose) and shall end on and include the calendar day
next preceding the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the Series D in respect of any
Dividend Period shall be computed by the Calculation Agent on the basis of a 360-day year and the
actual number of days elapsed in such Dividend Period. Dividends payable in respect of a Dividend
Period shall be payable in arrears     i.e., on the first Dividend Payment Date after such
Dividend Period.

The dividend rate on the Series D, for each Dividend Period, shall be a rate per annum equal
to the greater of (1) 0.67% above LIBOR (as defined below) for such Dividend Period and (2) 4.00%.
LIBOR, with respect to any Dividend Period, means the offered rate expressed as a percentage per
annum for three-month deposits in U.S. dollars on the first day of such Dividend Period, as that
rate appears on Moneyline Telerate Page 3750 (or any successor or replacement page) as of 11:00
A.M., London time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such
Dividend Period.

If the rate described in the preceding paragraph does not appear on Moneyline Telerate Page
3750 (or any successor or replacement page), LIBOR shall be determined on the basis of the rates,
at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding
the first day of such Dividend Period, at which deposits of the following kind are offered to prime
banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in that market selected by the Calculation
Agent: three-month deposits in U.S. dollars, beginning on the first day of such Dividend Period,
and in a Representative Amount. The Calculation Agent shall request the principal London office of
each of these banks to provide a quotation of its rate at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time. If
at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR for such Dividend Period shall be the arithmetic mean
of such quotations.

If fewer than two quotations are provided as described in the preceding paragraph, LIBOR for
such Dividend Period shall be the arithmetic mean of the rates for loans of the following kind to
leading European banks quoted, at approximately 11:00 A.M. New York City time, on the second London
Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period, by three major banks in
New York City selected by the Calculation Agent: three-month loans of U.S. dollars, beginning on
the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a Representative Amount.

If fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as described in the
preceding paragraph, LIBOR for such Dividend Period shall be LIBOR in effect for the prior Dividend
Period.

D-4 

The Calculation Agent s determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation of the amount
of dividends for any Dividend Period, will be maintained on file at the Corporation s principal
offices and will be available to any stockholder upon request and will be final and binding in the
absence of manifest error.

Holders of Series D shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash,
securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series D as
specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designations).

(b)  Priority of Dividends . So long as any share of Series D remains outstanding, no dividend
shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than a
dividend payable solely in Junior Stock), and no Common Stock or other Junior Stock shall be
purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or
indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior
Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of
Junior Stock and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale
of Junior Stock) during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividends for the latest completed
Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of Series D have been declared and paid (or declared and
a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing provision shall not
restrict the ability of Goldman, Sachs   Co., or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage
in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.

When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside)
on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates
different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend
Period) in full upon the Series D and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on the
Series D and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of
parity stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend
payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be
declared pro rata so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to
each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series D and all Parity Stock
payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment
dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the
Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) bear to each other.

Subject to the foregoing, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as
may be determined by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee
of the Board of Directors) may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and
other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and the
Series D shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.

D-5 

Section 5. Liquidation Rights .

(a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Series D
shall be entitled to receive, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether
capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, and after
satisfaction of all liabilities and obligations to creditors of the Corporation, before any
distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and
any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series D as to such distribution, in full
an amount equal to $25,000 per share (the  Series D Liquidation Amount ), together with an amount
equal to all dividends (if any) that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment
of such distribution (but without any amount in respect of dividends that have not been declared
prior to such payment date).

(b)  Partial Payment . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the
Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preferences (as defined
below) in full to all holders of Series D and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking
equally with the Series D as to such distribution, the amounts paid to the holders of Series D and
to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid pro rata in accordance with the respective
aggregate Liquidation Preferences of the holders of Series D and the holders of all such other
stock. In any such distribution, the  Liquidation Preference  of any holder of stock of the
Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming
no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an
amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other
than Series D and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid,
accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable).

(c)  Residual Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all
holders of Series D, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all
remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and
preferences.

(d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5,
the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity,
including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series D receive cash, securities or
other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other
property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

Section 6. Redemption .

(a)  Optional Redemption . The Series D may not be redeemed by the Corporation prior to May 24,
2011. On or after May 24, 2011, the Corporation, at its

D-6 

option, may redeem, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, the shares of Series D
at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price
equal to $25,000 per share, together (except as otherwise provided hereinbelow) with an amount
equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid prior to the redemption date (but with
no amount in respect of any dividends that have not been declared prior to such date). The
redemption price for any shares of Series D shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder
of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or
its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent
to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to
receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of
record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as
provided in Section 4 above.

(b)  No Sinking Fund . The Series D will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking
fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Series D will have no right to require redemption of
any shares of Series D.

(c)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series D shall be given by
first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed
at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall
be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice
mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given,
whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or
any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series D designated
for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other
shares of Series D. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series D or any depositary shares
representing interests in the Series D are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust
Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series D
at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a holder
shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series D to be redeemed and, if
less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be
redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates
for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.

(d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series D at
the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either pro rata or in such other
manner as the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions
hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions
upon which shares of Series D shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares
represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the
unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.

D-7 

(e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or
before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been
set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the pro rata
benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be
available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for
redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends
shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption
shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on
such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive
the amount payable on such redemption, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three
years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the
Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to
the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.

Section 7. Conversion Upon Regulatory Changes . If both (i) and (ii) below occur:

(i) after the date of the issuance of the Series D, the Corporation (by election or
otherwise) becomes subject to any law, rule, regulation or guidance (together,
 Regulations ) relating to its capital adequacy, which Regulation (x) modifies the existing
requirements for treatment as Allowable Capital (as defined under the Securities and
Exchange Commission rules relating to consolidated supervised entities as in effect from
time to time), (y) provides for a type or level of capital characterized as  Tier 1  or its
equivalent pursuant to Regulations of any governmental agency, authority or other body
having regulatory jurisdiction over the Corporation (or any of its subsidiaries or
consolidated affiliates) and implementing the capital standards published by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any other United States national governmental
agency, authority or other body, or any other applicable regime based on capital standards
published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision or its successor, or (z) provides
for a type or level of capital that in the judgment of the Corporation (after consultation
with legal counsel of recognized standing) is substantially equivalent to such  Tier 1 
capital (such capital described in either (y) or (z) above is referred to below as  Tier 1
Capital Equivalent ), and

(ii) the Corporation affirmatively elects to qualify the Series D for treatment as
Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent without any sublimit or other quantitative
restriction on the inclusion of the Series D in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital
Equivalent (other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation
requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant
form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) under such Regulations,

D-8 

then, upon such affirmative election, the Series D shall be convertible at the Corporation s option
into a new series of Preferred Stock having terms and provisions substantially identical to those
of the Series D, except that such new series may have such additional or modified rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, as are
necessary in the judgment of the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized
committee of the Board of Directors) (after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing)
to comply with the Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions (as defined below),  provided  that the
Corporation will not cause any such conversion unless the Board of Directors or the Committee (or
another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) determines that the rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions
thereof, of such new series of Preferred Stock, taken as a whole, are not materially less favorable
to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and the
qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series D, taken as a whole.

As used above, the term  Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions  means such terms and
provisions as are, in the judgment of the Corporation (after consultation with counsel of
recognized standing), required for preferred stock to be treated as Allowable Capital or Tier 1
Capital Equivalent, as applicable, without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the
inclusion of such preferred stock in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent, as applicable
(other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation requiring that
common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Allowable
Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) pursuant to the applicable Regulations.

The Corporation shall provide notice to the holders of Series D of any election to qualify the
Series D for Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent treatment and of any determination to
convert the Series D into a new series of Preferred Stock pursuant to the terms of this Section 7,
promptly upon the effectiveness of any such election or determination. A copy of such notice and of
the relevant Regulations shall be maintained on file at the principal offices of the Corporation
and, upon request, will be made available to any stockholder of the Corporation. Any conversion of
the Series D pursuant to this Section 7 shall be effected pursuant to such procedures as the
Corporation may determine and publicly disclose.

Except as specified in this Section 7, holders of Series D shares shall have no right to
exchange or convert such shares into any other securities.

Section 8. Voting Rights .

(a)  General . The holders of Series D shall not have any voting rights except as set forth
below or as otherwise from to time required by law.

(b)  Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events . If and whenever dividends on any
shares of Series D shall not have been declared and paid for at least six Dividend Periods, whether
or not consecutive (a  Nonpayment Event ),
the number of directors then constituting the Board of Directors shall automatically be

D-9 

increased by two and the holders of Series D, together with the holders of any outstanding shares
of Voting Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be entitled to elect the two
additional directors (the  Preferred Stock Directors ),  provided  that it shall be a qualification
for election for any such Preferred Stock Director that the election of such director shall not
cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirement of the New York Stock
Exchange (or any other securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the
Corporation may then be listed or traded) that listed or traded companies must have a majority of
independent directors and  provided further  that the Board of Directors shall at no time include
more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors
that the holders of any series of Voting Preferred Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like
voting rights).

In the event that the holders of the Series D, and such other holders of Voting Preferred
Stock, shall be entitled to vote for the election of the Preferred Stock Directors following a
Nonpayment Event, such directors shall be initially elected following such Nonpayment Event only at
a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series D or
of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (unless such request for a special
meeting is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting
of the stockholders of the Corporation, in which event such election shall be held only at such
next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting of
stockholders of the Corporation. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election
of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event shall be made by written notice, signed
by the requisite holders of Series D or Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of
the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 10 below, or as may otherwise be required
by law.

When dividends have been paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside)
in full on the Series D for at least four Dividend Periods (whether or not consecutive) after a
Nonpayment Event, then the right of the holders of Series D to elect the Preferred Stock Directors
shall cease (but subject always to revesting of such voting rights in the case of any future
Nonpayment Event), and, if and when any rights of holders of Series D and Voting Preferred Stock to
elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall have ceased, the terms of office of all the Preferred
Stock Directors shall forthwith terminate and the number of directors constituting the Board of
Directors shall automatically be reduced accordingly.

Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record
of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series D and Voting Preferred Stock, when they have
the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class). So long as a Nonpayment
Event shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to
the initial election of Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event) may be filled by the
written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office,
by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series D and all
Voting Preferred
Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single

D-10 

class).
Any such vote of stockholders to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock
Director may be taken only at a special meeting of such stockholders, called as provided above for
an initial election of Preferred Stock Director after a Nonpayment Event (unless such request is
received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the
stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of
stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on
any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote. Each Preferred Stock Director
elected at any special meeting of stockholders or by written consent of the other Preferred Stock
Director shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders if such office shall
not have previously terminated as above provided.

(c)  Other Voting Rights . So long as any shares of Series D are outstanding, in addition to
any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation,
the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 % of the shares of Series D and any Voting
Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single
class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting
called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:

(i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of
Incorporation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of
any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series D with
respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;

(ii)  Amendment of Series D . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of
the Certificate of Incorporation so as to materially and adversely affect the special
rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series D, taken as a whole; or

(iii)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations . Any
consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series D, or of
a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity,
unless in each case (x) the shares of Series D remain outstanding or, in the case of any
such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or
resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the
surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining
outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken
as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the
Series D immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;

D-11 

provided ,  however , that for all purposes of this Section 8(c), any increase in the amount of the
authorized or issued Series D or authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance, or an
increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking equally
with and/or junior to the Series D with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends
are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution
or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences,
privileges or voting powers of the Series D. In addition, any conversion of the Series D pursuant
to Section 7 above shall not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and
voting powers of the Series D.

If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or
consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect the Series D and one or more
but not all other series of Preferred Stock, then only the Series D and such series of Preferred
Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter
together as a single class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock).

(d)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the holders of the Series D, so long as
such action does not adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and
limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series D, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement
or repeal any terms of the Series D:

(i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this
Certificate of Designations that may be defective or inconsistent; or

(ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the
Series D that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.

(e)  Changes after Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of Series D
shall be required pursuant to Section 8(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when any
such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares
of Series D shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice
and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to
Section 6 above.

(f)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting
any meeting of the holders of Series D (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date
in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of
written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents
shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized
committee of the Board of Directors), in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules
and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws,
applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series D
is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a
plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series D and any Voting Preferred

D-12 

Stock
has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series D are entitled to
vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of
the shares voted or covered by the consent.

Section 9. Record Holders . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation
and the transfer agent for the Series D may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series
D as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such
transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.

Section 10. Notices . All notices or communications in respect of Series D shall be
sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage
prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations,
in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law.

Section 11. No Preemptive Rights . No share of Series D shall have any rights of preemption
whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or
granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or
options, may be designated, issued or granted.

Section 12. Other Rights . The shares of Series D shall not have any voting powers,
preferences or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications,
limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of
Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.

D-13 

Appendix E 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 

OF 

PERPETUAL NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES E 

OF 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC ., a corporation organized and existing under the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  Corporation ), in accordance with the provisions of
Sections 103 and 151 thereof, DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:

The Securities Issuance Committee (the  Committee ) of the board of directors of the
Corporation (the  Board of Directors ), in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of
Directors dated September 16, 2005 and September 29, 2006, the provisions of the restated
certificate of incorporation and the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation and applicable
law, by unanimous written consent dated May 14, 2007, adopted the following resolution creating a
series of 17,500.1 shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated as  Perpetual
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E .

RESOLVED , that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the
resolutions of the Board of Directors dated September 16, 2005 and September 29, 2006, the
provisions of the restated certificate of incorporation and the amended and restated bylaws of the
Corporation and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the
Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series,
and the voting and other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights,
and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as
follows:

Section 1. Designation . The distinctive serial designation of such series of Preferred Stock
is  Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E  ( Series E ). Each share of Series E shall
be identical in all respects to every other share of Series E.

Section 2. Number of Shares . The authorized number of shares of Series E shall be 17,500.1.
Shares of Series E that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or
converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized
but unissued shares of Series E.

Section 3. Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series E:

(a)  Board of Directors  means the board of directors of the Corporation.

(b)  ByLaws  means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be
amended from time to time.

(c)  Business Day  means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or
Friday and is not a day on which banking institutions in New York City generally are
authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.

(d)  Calculation Agent  means, at any time, the person or entity appointed by the
Corporation and serving as such agent at such time. The Corporation may terminate any such
appointment and may appoint a successor agent at any time and from time to time,  provided 
that the Corporation shall use its best efforts to ensure that there is, at all relevant
times when the Series E is outstanding, a person or entity appointed and serving as such
agent. The Calculation Agent may be a person or entity affiliated with the Corporation.

(e)  Certificate of Designations  means this Certificate of Designations relating to
the Series E, as it may be amended from time to time.

(f)  Certification of Incorporation  shall mean the restated certificate of
incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include
this Certificate of Designations.

(g)  Common Stock  means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the
Corporation.

(h)  Junior Stock  means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of
the Corporation (other than Series E) that ranks junior to Series E either or both as to
the payment of dividends and/or as to the distribution of assets on any liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

(i)  London Business Day  means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday
or Friday and is a day on which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London
interbank market.

(j)  Parity Stock  means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than
Series E) that ranks equally with Series E both in the payment of dividends and in the
distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

(k)  Preferred Stock  means any and all series of Preferred Stock, having a par value
of $0.01 per share, of the Corporation, including the Series E.

E-2 

(l)  Representative Amount  means, at any time, an amount that, in the Calculation
Agent s judgment, is representative of a single transaction in the relevant market at the
relevant time.

(m)  Reuters Screen LIBOR01  means the display designated on the Reuters 3000 Xtra (or
such other page as may replace that page on that service or such other service as may be
nominated by the British Bankers  Association for the purpose of displaying London
interbank offered rates for U.S. Dollar deposits).

(n)  Voting Preferred Stock  means, with regard to any election or removal of a
Preferred Stock Director (as defined in Section 8(b) below) or any other matter as to which
the holders of Series E are entitled to vote as specified in Section 8 of this Certificate
of Designations, any and all series of Preferred Stock (other than Series E) that rank
equally with Series E either as to the payment of dividends or as to the distribution of
assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like
voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter.

Section 4. Dividends .

(a)  Rate . Holders of Series E shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the
Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of
Directors) out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law,
non-cumulative cash dividends at the rate determined as set forth below in this Section (4) applied
to the liquidation preference amount of $100,000 per share of Series E. Such dividends shall be
payable in arrears (as provided below in this Section 4(a)), but only when, as and if declared by
the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of
Directors), (a) if the shares of Series E are issued prior to June 1, 2012 (or if such date is not
a Business Day, the next Business Day), on June 1 and December 1 of each year until June 1, 2012,
and (b) thereafter, on March 1, June 1, September 1 and December 1 of each year (each a  Dividend
Payment Date   provided  that if any such Dividend Payment Date would otherwise occur on a day that
is not a Business Day, such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be (and any dividend payable on
Series E on such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be payable on) the immediately succeeding
Business Day. If a Dividend Payment Date prior to June 1, 2012 is not a Business Day, the
applicable dividend shall be paid on the first Business Day following that day without adjustment.
Dividends on Series E shall not be cumulative; holders of Series E shall not be entitled to receive
any dividends not declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized
committee of the Board of Directors) and no interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be
payable in respect of any dividend not so declared.

Dividends that are payable on Series E on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders
of record of Series E as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable
record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other
record date fixed by the Board of Directors or

E-3 

the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) that is not
more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a  Dividend Record
Date ). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not
such day is a Business Day.

Each dividend period (a  Dividend Period ) shall commence on and include a Dividend Payment
Date (other than the initial Dividend Period, which shall commence on and include the date of
original issue of the Series E) and shall end on and include the calendar day next preceding the
next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the Series E in respect of a Dividend Period
shall be computed by the Calculation Agent (i) if shares of Series E are issued prior to June 1,
2012, on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve-30 day months until the Dividend Payment
Date in June 2012 and (ii) thereafter, on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days
elapsed in such Dividend Period. Dividends payable in respect of a Dividend Period shall be
payable in arrears     i.e., on the first Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Period.

The dividend rate on the Series E, for each Dividend Period, shall be (a) if the shares of
Series E are issued prior to June 1, 2012, a rate per annum equal to 5.793% until the Dividend
Payment date in June 2012, and (b) thereafter, a rate per annum that will reset quarterly and shall
be equal to the greater of (i) three-month LIBOR for such Dividend Period plus 0.7675% and (ii)
4.000%. Three-month LIBOR, with respect to any Dividend Period, means the offered rate expressed
as a percentage per annum for three-month deposits in U.S. dollars on the first day of such
Dividend Period, as that rate appears on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 (or any successor or replacement
page) as of 11:00 A.M., London time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the
first day of such Dividend Period.

If the rate described in the preceding paragraph does not appear on Reuters Screen LIBOR01(or
any successor or replacement page), LIBOR shall be determined on the basis of the rates, at
approximately 11:00 A.M., London time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the
first day of such Dividend Period, at which deposits of the following kind are offered to prime
banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in that market selected by the Calculation
Agent: three-month deposits in U.S. dollars, beginning on the first day of such Dividend Period,
and in a Representative Amount. The Calculation Agent shall request the principal London office of
each of these banks to provide a quotation of its rate at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time. If
at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR for such Dividend Period shall be the arithmetic mean
of such quotations.

If fewer than two quotations are provided as described in the preceding paragraph, LIBOR for
such Dividend Period shall be the arithmetic mean of the rates for loans of the following kind to
leading European banks quoted, at approximately 11:00 A.M. New York City time, on the second London
Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period, by three major banks in
New York City selected by the Calculation Agent: three-month loans of U.S. dollars, beginning on
the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a Representative Amount.

E-4 

If fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as described in the
preceding paragraph, LIBOR for such Dividend Period shall be LIBOR in effect for the prior Dividend
Period.

The Calculation Agent s determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation of the amount
of dividends for any Dividend Period, will be maintained on file at the Corporation s principal
offices and will be available to any stockholder upon request and will be final and binding in the
absence of manifest error.

Holders of Series E shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash,
securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series E as
specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designations).

(b)  Priority of Dividends . So long as any share of Series E remains outstanding, no dividend
shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than a
dividend payable solely in Junior Stock), and no Common Stock or other Junior Stock shall be
purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or
indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior
Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of
Junior Stock and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale
of Junior Stock) during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividends for the latest completed
Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of Series E have been declared and paid (or declared and
a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing provision shall not
restrict the ability of Goldman, Sachs   Co., or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage
in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.

When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside)
on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates
different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend
Period) in full upon the Series E and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on the
Series E and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of
parity stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend
payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be
declared pro rata so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to
each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series E and all Parity Stock
payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment
dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the
Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) bear to each other.

Subject to the foregoing, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as
may be determined by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee
of the Board of Directors) may be declared and paid

E-5 

on any securities, including Common Stock and other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any
funds legally available for such payment, and the Series E shall not be entitled to participate in
any such dividends.

Section 5. Liquidation Rights .

(a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Series E
shall be entitled to receive, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether
capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, and after
satisfaction of all liabilities and obligations to creditors of the Corporation, before any
distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and
any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series E as to such distribution, in full
an amount equal to $100,000 per share (the  Series E Liquidation Amount ), together with an amount
equal to all dividends (if any) that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment
of such distribution (but without any amount in respect of dividends that have not been declared
prior to such payment date).

(b)  Partial Payment . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the
Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preferences (as defined
below) in full to all holders of Series E and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking
equally with the Series E as to such distribution, the amounts paid to the holders of Series E and
to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid pro rata in accordance with the respective
aggregate Liquidation Preferences of the holders of Series E and the holders of all such other
stock. In any such distribution, the  Liquidation Preference  of any holder of stock of the
Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming
no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an
amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other
than Series E and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid,
accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable).

(c)  Residual Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all
holders of Series E, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all
remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and
preferences.

(d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5,
the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity,
including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series E receive cash, securities or
other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other
property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

E-6 

Section 6. Redemption .

(a)  Optional Redemption . The Series E may not be redeemed by the Corporation prior to the
later of June 1, 2012 and the date of original issue of Series E. On or after that date, the
Corporation, at its option, may redeem, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, the
shares of Series E at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(c) below, at
a redemption price equal to $100,000 per share, together (except as otherwise provided herein) with
an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid prior to the redemption date
(but with no amount in respect of any dividends that have not been declared prior to such date).
The redemption price for any shares of Series E shall be payable on the redemption date to the
holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the
Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that
occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder
entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the
holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend
Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above.

(b)  No Sinking Fund . The Series E will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking
fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Series E will have no right to require redemption of
any shares of Series E.

(c)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series E shall be given by
first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed
at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall
be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice
mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given,
whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or
any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series E designated
for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other
shares of Series E. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series E or any depositary shares
representing interests in the Series E are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust
Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series E
at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a holder
shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series E to be redeemed and, if
less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be
redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates
for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.

(d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series E at
the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either pro rata or in such other
manner as the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions
hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions
upon which shares of Series E shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares
represented by any certificate

E-7 

are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without
charge to the holder thereof.

(e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or
before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been
set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the pro rata
benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be
available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for
redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends
shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption
shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on
such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive
the amount payable on such redemption, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three
years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the
Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to
the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.

Section 7. Conversion Upon Regulatory Changes . If both (i) and (ii) below occur:

(i) after the date of the issuance of the Series E, the Corporation (by election or
otherwise) becomes subject to any law, rule, regulation or guidance (together,
 Regulations ) relating to its capital adequacy, which Regulation (x) modifies the existing
requirements for treatment as Allowable Capital (as defined under the Securities and
Exchange Commission rules relating to consolidated supervised entities as in effect from
time to time), (y) provides for a type or level of capital characterized as  Tier 1  or its
equivalent pursuant to Regulations of any governmental agency, authority or other body
having regulatory jurisdiction over the Corporation (or any of its subsidiaries or
consolidated affiliates) and implementing the capital standards published by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any other United States national governmental
agency, authority or other body, or any other applicable regime based on capital standards
published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision or its successor, or (z) provides
for a type or level of capital that in the judgment of the Corporation (after consultation
with legal counsel of recognized standing) is substantially equivalent to such  Tier 1 
capital (such capital described in either (y) or (z) above is referred to below as  Tier 1
Capital Equivalent ), and

(ii) the Corporation affirmatively elects to qualify the Series E for treatment as
Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent without any sublimit or other quantitative
restriction on the inclusion of the Series E in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital
Equivalent (other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation
requiring that common equity or a specified

E-8 

form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1
Capital Equivalent) under such Regulations,

then, upon such affirmative election, the Series E shall be convertible at the Corporation s option
into a new series of Preferred Stock having terms and provisions substantially identical to those
of the Series E, except that such new series may have such additional or modified rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, as are
necessary in the judgment of the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized
committee of the Board of Directors) (after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing)
to comply with the Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions (as defined below),  provided  that the
Corporation will not cause any such conversion unless the Board of Directors or the Committee (or
another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) determines that the rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions
thereof, of such new series of Preferred Stock, taken as a whole, are not materially less favorable
to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and the
qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series E, taken as a whole.

As used above, the term  Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions  means such terms and
provisions as are, in the judgment of the Corporation (after consultation with counsel of
recognized standing), required for preferred stock to be treated as Allowable Capital or Tier 1
Capital Equivalent, as applicable, without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the
inclusion of such preferred stock in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent, as applicable
(other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation requiring that
common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Allowable
Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) pursuant to the applicable Regulations.

The Corporation shall provide notice to the holders of Series E of any election to qualify the
Series E for Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent treatment and of any determination to
convert the Series E into a new series of Preferred Stock pursuant to the terms of this Section 7,
promptly upon the effectiveness of any such election or determination. A copy of such notice and of
the relevant Regulations shall be maintained on file at the principal offices of the Corporation
and, upon request, will be made available to any stockholder of the Corporation. Any conversion of
the Series E pursuant to this Section 7 shall be effected pursuant to such procedures as the
Corporation may determine and publicly disclose.

Except as specified in this Section 7, holders of Series E shares shall have no right to
exchange or convert such shares into any other securities.

Section 8. Voting Rights .

(a)  General . The holders of Series E shall not have any voting rights except as set forth
below or as otherwise from to time required by law.

E-9 

(b)  Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events . If and whenever dividends on any
shares of Series E shall not have been declared and paid for Dividend Periods, whether or not
consecutive, equivalent to at least eighteen months (a  Nonpayment Event ), the number of directors
then constituting the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of
Series E, together with the holders of any outstanding shares of Voting Preferred Stock, voting
together as a single class, shall be entitled to elect the two additional directors (the  Preferred
Stock Directors ),  provided  that it shall be a qualification for election for any such Preferred
Stock Director that the election of such director shall not cause the Corporation to violate the
corporate governance requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other securities exchange
or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded) that
listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors and  provided further  that
the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including,
for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Preferred
Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).

In the event that the holders of the Series E, and such other holders of Voting Preferred
Stock, shall be entitled to vote for the election of the Preferred Stock Directors following a
Nonpayment Event, such directors shall be initially elected following such Nonpayment Event only at
a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series E or
of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (unless such request for a special
meeting is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting
of the stockholders of the Corporation, in which event such election shall be held only at such
next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting of
stockholders of the Corporation. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election
of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event shall be made by written notice, signed
by the requisite holders of Series E or Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of
the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 10 below, or as may otherwise be required
by law.

When dividends have been paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside)
in full on the Series E for Dividend Periods, whether or not consecutive, equivalent to at least
one year after a Nonpayment Event, then the right of the holders of Series E to elect the Preferred
Stock Directors shall cease (but subject always to revesting of such voting rights in the case of
any future Nonpayment Event), and, if and when any rights of holders of Series E and Voting
Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall have ceased, the terms of office of
all the Preferred Stock Directors shall forthwith terminate and the number of directors
constituting the Board of Directors shall automatically be reduced accordingly.

Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record
of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series E and Voting Preferred Stock, when they have
the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class). So long as a Nonpayment
Event shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to
the initial election of

E-10 

Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event) may be filled by the written consent of
the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by a vote of the
holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series E and all Voting Preferred
Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class). Any
such vote of stockholders to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock
Director may be taken only at a special meeting of such stockholders, called as provided above for
an initial election of Preferred Stock Director after a Nonpayment Event (unless such request is
received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the
stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of
stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on
any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote. Each Preferred Stock Director
elected at any special meeting of stockholders or by written consent of the other Preferred Stock
Director shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders if such office shall
not have previously terminated as above provided.

(c)  Other Voting Rights . So long as any shares of Series E are outstanding, in addition to
any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation,
the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 % of the shares of Series E and any Voting
Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single
class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting
called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:

(i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of
Incorporation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of
any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series E with
respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;

(ii)  Amendment of Series E . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of
the Certificate of Incorporation so as to materially and adversely affect the special
rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series E, taken as a whole; or

(iii)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations . Any
consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series E, or of
a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity,
unless in each case (x) the shares of Series E remain outstanding or, in the case of any
such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or
resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the
surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining
outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken
as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than

E-11 

the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and
restrictions thereof, of the Series E immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a
whole;

provided ,  however , that for all purposes of this Section 8(c), any increase in the amount of the
authorized or issued Series E or authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance, or an
increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking equally
with and/or junior to the Series E with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends
are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution
or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences,
privileges or voting powers of the Series E. In addition, any conversion of the Series E pursuant
to Section 7 above shall not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and
voting powers of the Series E.

If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or
consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect the Series E and one or more
but not all other series of Preferred Stock, then only the Series E and such series of Preferred
Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter
together as a single class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock).

(d)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the holders of the Series E, so long as
such action does not adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and
limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series E, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement
or repeal any terms of the Series E:

(i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this
Certificate of Designations that may be defective or inconsistent; or

(ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the
Series E that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.

(e)  Changes after Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of Series E
shall be required pursuant to Section 8(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when any
such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares
of Series E shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice
and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to
Section 6 above.

(f)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting
any meeting of the holders of Series E (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date
in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of
written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents
shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized
committee of the Board of Directors), in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules
and procedures

E-12 

shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable
law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series E is listed
or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or
other portion of the shares of Series E and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on
any matter on which the holders of shares of Series E are entitled to vote shall be determined by
the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by
the consent.

Section 9. Record Holders . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation
and the transfer agent for the Series E may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series
E as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such
transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.

Section 10. Notices . All notices or communications in respect of Series E shall be
sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage
prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations,
in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law.

Section 11. No Preemptive Rights . No share of Series E shall have any rights of preemption
whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or
granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or
options, may be designated, issued or granted.

Section 12. Other Rights . The shares of Series E shall not have any voting powers,
preferences or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications,
limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of
Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.

E-13 

Appendix F 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 

OF 

PERPETUAL NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES F 

OF 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC ., a corporation organized and existing under the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  Corporation ), in accordance with the provisions of
Sections 103 and 151 thereof, DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:

The Securities Issuance Committee (the  Committee ) of the board of directors of the
Corporation (the  Board of Directors ), in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of
Directors dated September 16, 2005 and September 29, 2006, the provisions of the restated
certificate of incorporation and the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation and applicable
law, by unanimous written consent dated May 14, 2007, adopted the following resolution creating a
series of 5,000.1 shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated as  Perpetual
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F .

RESOLVED , that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the
resolutions of the Board of Directors dated September 16, 2005 and September 29, 2006, the
provisions of the restated certificate of incorporation and the amended and restated bylaws of the
Corporation and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the
Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series,
and the voting and other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights,
and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as
follows:

Section 1. Designation . The distinctive serial designation of such series of Preferred Stock
is  Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F  ( Series F ). Each share of Series F shall
be identical in all respects to every other share of Series F.

Section 2. Number of Shares . The authorized number of shares of Series F shall be 5,000.1.
Shares of Series F that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or
converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized
but unissued shares of Series F.

Section 3. Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series F:

(a)  Board of Directors  means the board of directors of the Corporation.

(b)  ByLaws  means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be
amended from time to time.

(c)  Business Day  means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or
Friday and is not a day on which banking institutions in New York City generally are
authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.

(d)  Calculation Agent  means, at any time, the person or entity appointed by the
Corporation and serving as such agent at such time. The Corporation may terminate any such
appointment and may appoint a successor agent at any time and from time to time,  provided 
that the Corporation shall use its best efforts to ensure that there is, at all relevant
times when the Series F is outstanding, a person or entity appointed and serving as such
agent. The Calculation Agent may be a person or entity affiliated with the Corporation.

(e)  Certificate of Designations  means this Certificate of Designations relating to
the Series F, as it may be amended from time to time.

(f)  Certification of Incorporation  shall mean the restated certificate of
incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include
this Certificate of Designations.

(g)  Common Stock  means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the
Corporation.

(h)  Junior Stock  means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of
the Corporation (other than Series F) that ranks junior to Series F either or both as to
the payment of dividends and/or as to the distribution of assets on any liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

(i)  London Business Day  means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday
or Friday and is a day on which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London
interbank market.

(j)  Parity Stock  means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than
Series F) that ranks equally with Series F both in the payment of dividends and in the
distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

(k)  Preferred Stock  means any and all series of Preferred Stock, having a par value
of $0.01 per share, of the Corporation, including the Series F.

F-2 

(l)  Representative Amount  means, at any time, an amount that, in the Calculation
Agent s judgment, is representative of a single transaction in the relevant market at the
relevant time.

(m)  Reuters Screen LIBOR01  means the display designated on the Reuters 3000 Xtra (or
such other page as may replace that page on that service or such other service as may be
nominated by the British Bankers  Association for the purpose of displaying London
interbank offered rates for U.S. Dollar deposits).

(n)  Voting Preferred Stock  means, with regard to any election or removal of a
Preferred Stock Director (as defined in Section 8(b) below) or any other matter as to which
the holders of Series F are entitled to vote as specified in Section 8 of this Certificate
of Designations, any and all series of Preferred Stock (other than Series F) that rank
equally with Series F either as to the payment of dividends or as to the distribution of
assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like
voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter.

Section 4. Dividends .

(a)  Rate . Holders of Series F shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the
Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of
Directors) out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law,
non-cumulative cash dividends at the rate determined as set forth below in this Section (4) applied
to the liquidation preference amount of $100,000 per share of Series F. Such dividends shall be
payable quarterly in arrears (as provided below in this Section 4(a)), but only when, as and if
declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the
Board of Directors), on March 1, June 1, September 1 and December 1 of each year (each a  Dividend
Payment Date   provided  that if any such Dividend Payment Date would otherwise occur on a day that
is not a Business Day, such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be (and any dividend payable on
Series F on such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be payable on) the immediately succeeding
Business Day. If a Dividend Payment Date is not a Business Day, the applicable dividend shall be
paid on the first Business Day following that day. Dividends on Series F shall not be cumulative;
holders of Series F shall not be entitled to receive any dividends not declared by the Board of
Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) and no
interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend not so
declared.

Dividends that are payable on Series F on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders
of record of Series F as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable
record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other
record date fixed by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee
of the Board of Directors) that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend
Payment Date (each, a

F-3 

Dividend Record Date ). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend
Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.

Each dividend period (a  Dividend Period ) shall commence on and include a Dividend Payment
Date (other than the initial Dividend Period, which shall commence on and include the date of
original issue of the Series F) and shall end on and include the calendar day next preceding the
next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the Series F in respect of any Dividend Period
shall be computed by the Calculation Agent on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of
days elapsed in such Dividend Period. Dividends payable in respect of a Dividend Period shall be
payable in arrears     i.e., on the first Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Period.

The dividend rate on the Series F, for each Dividend Period, shall be (a) if the shares of
Series F are issued prior to September 1, 2012, a rate per annum equal to three-month LIBOR plus
0.77% until the Dividend Payment date in September 2012, and (b) thereafter, a rate per annum that
will reset quarterly and shall be equal to the greater of (i) three-month LIBOR for such Dividend
Period plus 0.77% and (ii) 4.000%. Three-month LIBOR, with respect to any Dividend Period, means
the offered rate expressed as a percentage per annum for three-month deposits in U.S. dollars on
the first day of such Dividend Period, as that rate appears on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 (or any
successor or replacement page) as of 11:00 A.M., London time, on the second London Business Day
immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period.

If the rate described in the preceding paragraph does not appear on Reuters Screen LIBOR01(or
any successor or replacement page), LIBOR shall be determined on the basis of the rates, at
approximately 11:00 A.M., London time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the
first day of such Dividend Period, at which deposits of the following kind are offered to prime
banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in that market selected by the Calculation
Agent: three-month deposits in U.S. dollars, beginning on the first day of such Dividend Period,
and in a Representative Amount. The Calculation Agent shall request the principal London office of
each of these banks to provide a quotation of its rate at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time. If
at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR for such Dividend Period shall be the arithmetic mean
of such quotations.

If fewer than two quotations are provided as described in the preceding paragraph, LIBOR for
such Dividend Period shall be the arithmetic mean of the rates for loans of the following kind to
leading European banks quoted, at approximately 11:00 A.M. New York City time, on the second London
Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period, by three major banks in
New York City selected by the Calculation Agent: three-month loans of U.S. dollars, beginning on
the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a Representative Amount.

If fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as described in the
preceding paragraph, LIBOR for such Dividend Period shall be LIBOR in effect for the prior Dividend
Period.

F-4 

The Calculation Agent s determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation of the amount
of dividends for any Dividend Period, will be maintained on file at the Corporation s principal
offices and will be available to any stockholder upon request and will be final and binding in the
absence of manifest error.

Holders of Series F shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash,
securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series F as
specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designations).

(b)  Priority of Dividends . So long as any share of Series F remains outstanding, no dividend
shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than a
dividend payable solely in Junior Stock), and no Common Stock or other Junior Stock shall be
purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or
indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior
Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of
Junior Stock and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale
of Junior Stock) during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividends for the latest completed
Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of Series F have been declared and paid (or declared and
a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing provision shall not
restrict the ability of Goldman, Sachs   Co., or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage
in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.

When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside)
on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates
different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend
Period) in full upon the Series F and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on the
Series F and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of
parity stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend
payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be
declared pro rata so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to
each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series F and all Parity Stock
payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment
dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the
Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) bear to each other.

Subject to the foregoing, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as
may be determined by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee
of the Board of Directors) may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and
other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and the
Series F shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.

F-5 

Section 5. Liquidation Rights .

(a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Series F
shall be entitled to receive, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether
capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, and after
satisfaction of all liabilities and obligations to creditors of the Corporation, before any
distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and
any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series F as to such distribution, in full
an amount equal to $100,000 per share (the  Series F Liquidation Amount ), together with an amount
equal to all dividends (if any) that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment
of such distribution (but without any amount in respect of dividends that have not been declared
prior to such payment date).

(b)  Partial Payment . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the
Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preferences (as defined
below) in full to all holders of Series F and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking
equally with the Series F as to such distribution, the amounts paid to the holders of Series F and
to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid pro rata in accordance with the respective
aggregate Liquidation Preferences of the holders of Series F and the holders of all such other
stock. In any such distribution, the  Liquidation Preference  of any holder of stock of the
Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming
no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an
amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other
than Series F and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid,
accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable).

(c)  Residual Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all
holders of Series F, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all
remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and
preferences.

(d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5,
the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity,
including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series F receive cash, securities or
other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other
property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

Section 6. Redemption .

(a)  Optional Redemption . The Series F may not be redeemed by the Corporation prior to the
later of September 1, 2012 and the date of original issue of Series

F-6 

F. On or after that date, the Corporation, at its option, may redeem, in whole at any time or
in part from time to time, the shares of Series F at the time outstanding, upon notice given as
provided in Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to $100,000 per share, together (except
as otherwise provided herein) with an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not
paid prior to the redemption date (but with no amount in respect of any dividends that have not
been declared prior to such date). The redemption price for any shares of Series F shall be
payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s)
evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable
on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall
not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but
rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date
relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above.

(b)  No Sinking Fund . The Series F will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking
fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Series F will have no right to require redemption of
any shares of Series F.

(c)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series F shall be given by
first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed
at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall
be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice
mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given,
whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or
any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series F designated
for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other
shares of Series F. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series F or any depositary shares
representing interests in the Series F are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust
Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series F
at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a holder
shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series F to be redeemed and, if
less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be
redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates
for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.

(d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series F at
the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either pro rata or in such other
manner as the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions
hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions
upon which shares of Series F shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares
represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the
unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.

F-7 

(e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or
before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been
set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the pro rata
benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be
available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for
redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends
shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption
shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on
such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive
the amount payable on such redemption, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three
years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the
Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to
the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.

Section 7. Conversion Upon Regulatory Changes . If both (i) and (ii) below occur:

(i) after the date of the issuance of the Series F, the Corporation (by election or
otherwise) becomes subject to any law, rule, regulation or guidance (together,
 Regulations ) relating to its capital adequacy, which Regulation (x) modifies the existing
requirements for treatment as Allowable Capital (as defined under the Securities and
Exchange Commission rules relating to consolidated supervised entities as in effect from
time to time), (y) provides for a type or level of capital characterized as  Tier 1  or its
equivalent pursuant to Regulations of any governmental agency, authority or other body
having regulatory jurisdiction over the Corporation (or any of its subsidiaries or
consolidated affiliates) and implementing the capital standards published by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any other United States national governmental
agency, authority or other body, or any other applicable regime based on capital standards
published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision or its successor, or (z) provides
for a type or level of capital that in the judgment of the Corporation (after consultation
with legal counsel of recognized standing) is substantially equivalent to such  Tier 1 
capital (such capital described in either (y) or (z) above is referred to below as  Tier 1
Capital Equivalent ), and

(ii) the Corporation affirmatively elects to qualify the Series F for treatment as
Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent without any sublimit or other quantitative
restriction on the inclusion of the Series F in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital
Equivalent (other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation
requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant
form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) under such Regulations,

F-8 

then, upon such affirmative election, the Series F shall be convertible at the Corporation s option
into a new series of Preferred Stock having terms and provisions substantially identical to those
of the Series F, except that such new series may have such additional or modified rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, as are
necessary in the judgment of the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized
committee of the Board of Directors) (after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing)
to comply with the Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions (as defined below),  provided  that the
Corporation will not cause any such conversion unless the Board of Directors or the Committee (or
another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) determines that the rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions
thereof, of such new series of Preferred Stock, taken as a whole, are not materially less favorable
to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and the
qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series F, taken as a whole.

As used above, the term  Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions  means such terms and
provisions as are, in the judgment of the Corporation (after consultation with counsel of
recognized standing), required for preferred stock to be treated as Allowable Capital or Tier 1
Capital Equivalent, as applicable, without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the
inclusion of such preferred stock in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent, as applicable
(other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation requiring that
common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Allowable
Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) pursuant to the applicable Regulations.

The Corporation shall provide notice to the holders of Series F of any election to qualify the
Series F for Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent treatment and of any determination to
convert the Series F into a new series of Preferred Stock pursuant to the terms of this Section 7,
promptly upon the effectiveness of any such election or determination. A copy of such notice and of
the relevant Regulations shall be maintained on file at the principal offices of the Corporation
and, upon request, will be made available to any stockholder of the Corporation. Any conversion of
the Series F pursuant to this Section 7 shall be effected pursuant to such procedures as the
Corporation may determine and publicly disclose.

Except as specified in this Section 7, holders of Series F shares shall have no right to
exchange or convert such shares into any other securities.

Section 8. Voting Rights .

(a)  General . The holders of Series F shall not have any voting rights except as set forth
below or as otherwise from to time required by law.

(b)  Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events . If and whenever dividends on any
shares of Series F shall not have been declared and paid for at least six Dividend Periods, whether
or not consecutive (a  Nonpayment Event ), the number of directors then constituting the Board of
Directors shall automatically be

F-9 

increased by two and the holders of Series F, together with the holders of any outstanding
shares of Voting Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be entitled to elect the
two additional directors (the  Preferred Stock Directors ),  provided  that it shall be a
qualification for election for any such Preferred Stock Director that the election of such director
shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirement of the New York
Stock Exchange (or any other securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of
the Corporation may then be listed or traded) that listed or traded companies must have a majority
of independent directors and  provided further  that the Board of Directors shall at no time include
more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors
that the holders of any series of Voting Preferred Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like
voting rights).

In the event that the holders of the Series F, and such other holders of Voting Preferred
Stock, shall be entitled to vote for the election of the Preferred Stock Directors following a
Nonpayment Event, such directors shall be initially elected following such Nonpayment Event only at
a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series F or
of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (unless such request for a special
meeting is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting
of the stockholders of the Corporation, in which event such election shall be held only at such
next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting of
stockholders of the Corporation. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election
of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event shall be made by written notice, signed
by the requisite holders of Series F or Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of
the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 10 below, or as may otherwise be required
by law.

When dividends have been paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside)
in full on the Series F for at least four Dividend Periods (whether or not consecutive) after a
Nonpayment Event, then the right of the holders of Series F to elect the Preferred Stock Directors
shall cease (but subject always to revesting of such voting rights in the case of any future
Nonpayment Event), and, if and when any rights of holders of Series F and Voting Preferred Stock to
elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall have ceased, the terms of office of all the Preferred
Stock Directors shall forthwith terminate and the number of directors constituting the Board of
Directors shall automatically be reduced accordingly.

Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record
of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series F and Voting Preferred Stock, when they have
the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class). So long as a Nonpayment
Event shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to
the initial election of Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event) may be filled by the
written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office,
by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series F and all
Voting Preferred Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a
single class). Any such vote of stockholders to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a

F-10 

Preferred Stock Director may be taken only at a special meeting of such stockholders, called
as provided above for an initial election of Preferred Stock Director after a Nonpayment Event
(unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or
special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual
or special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one
vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote. Each
Preferred Stock Director elected at any special meeting of stockholders or by written consent of
the other Preferred Stock Director shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the
stockholders if such office shall not have previously terminated as above provided.

(c)  Other Voting Rights . So long as any shares of Series F are outstanding, in addition to
any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation,
the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 % of the shares of Series F and any Voting
Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single
class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting
called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:

(i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of
Incorporation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of
any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series F with
respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;

(ii)  Amendment of Series F . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of
the Certificate of Incorporation so as to materially and adversely affect the special
rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series F, taken as a whole; or

(iii)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations . Any
consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series F, or of
a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity,
unless in each case (x) the shares of Series F remain outstanding or, in the case of any
such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or
resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the
surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining
outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken
as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the
Series F immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;

F-11 

provided ,  however , that for all purposes of this Section 8(c), any increase in the amount of the
authorized or issued Series F or authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance, or an
increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking equally
with and/or junior to the Series F with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends
are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution
or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences,
privileges or voting powers of the Series F. In addition, any conversion of the Series F pursuant
to Section 7 above shall not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and
voting powers of the Series F.

If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or
consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect the Series F and one or more
but not all other series of Preferred Stock, then only the Series F and such series of Preferred
Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter
together as a single class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock).

(d)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the holders of the Series F, so long as
such action does not adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and
limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series F, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement
or repeal any terms of the Series F:

(i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this
Certificate of Designations that may be defective or inconsistent; or

(ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the
Series F that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.

(e)  Changes after Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of Series F
shall be required pursuant to Section 8(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when any
such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares
of Series F shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice
and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to
Section 6 above.

(f)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting
any meeting of the holders of Series F (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date
in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of
written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents
shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized
committee of the Board of Directors), in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules
and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws,
applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series F
is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality,
majority or other portion of the shares of Series F and any Voting Preferred

F-12 

Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series F are
entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation
amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.

Section 9. Record Holders . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation
and the transfer agent for the Series F may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series
F as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such
transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.

Section 10. Notices . All notices or communications in respect of Series F shall be
sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage
prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations,
in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law.

Section 11. No Preemptive Rights . No share of Series F shall have any rights of preemption
whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or
granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or
options, may be designated, issued or granted.

Section 12. Other Rights.  The shares of Series F shall not have any voting powers,
preferences or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications,
limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of
Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.

F-13 

Appendix G 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 

OF 

10% CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES G 

OF 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC ., a corporation organized and existing under the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the   Corporation  ), in accordance with the
provisions of Sections 103 and 151 thereof,  does hereby certify :

The Securities Issuance Committee (the   Committee  ) of the board of directors of the
Corporation (the   Board of Directors  ), in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of
Directors dated September 16, 2005 and September 29, 2006, the provisions of the restated
certificate of incorporation and the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation and applicable
law, at a meeting duly called and held on September 29, 2008, adopted the following resolution
creating a series of 50,000 shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated as   10%
Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series G  .

RESOLVED , that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the
resolutions of the Board of Directors dated September 16, 2005 and September 29, 2006, the
provisions of the restated certificate of incorporation and the amended and restated bylaws of the
Corporation and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the
Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series,
and the voting and other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights,
and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as
follows:

Section 1. Designation . The distinctive serial designation of such series of Preferred Stock
is  10% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series G  (  Series G  ). Each share of
Series G shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series G.

Section 2. Number of Shares . The authorized number of shares of Series G shall be 50,000.
Shares of Series G that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or
converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of
Preferred Stock ( provided  that any such cancelled shares of Series G may be reissued only as shares
of any series other than Series G).

Section 3. Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series G:

(a)   Bylaws   means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be
amended from time to time.

(b)   Business Day   means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or
Friday and is not a day on which banking institutions in New York City generally are authorized or
obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.

(c)   Certificate of Designations   means this Certificate of Designations relating to
the Series G, as it may be amended from time to time.

(d)   Certification of Incorporation   shall mean the restated certificate of
incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this
Certificate of Designations.

(e)   Common Stock   means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the
Corporation.

(f)   Junior Stock   means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of
the Corporation (other than Series G) that ranks junior to Series G either or both as to the
payment of dividends and/or as to the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the Corporation.

(g)   Original Issue Date   means October 1, 2008.

(h)   Parity Stock   means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than
Series G) that ranks equally with Series G both in the payment of dividends and in the distribution
of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation (in each case without
regard to whether dividends accrue cumulatively or non-cumulatively). Without limiting the
foregoing, Parity Stock shall include the Corporation s (i) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred
Stock, Series  (ii) 6.20% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series  (iii) Floating Rate
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series  (iv) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series
D; (v) Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series  and (vi) Perpetual Non-Cumulative
Preferred Stock, Series F.

(i)   Preferred Stock   means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation,
including the Series G.

(j)   Voting Parity Stock   means, with regard to any matter as to which the holders of
Series G are entitled to vote as specified in Section 8 of this Certificate of Designations, any
and all series of Parity Stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
exercisable with respect to such matter.

G-2 

(k)   Voting Preferred Stock   means, with regard to any matter as to which the holders
of Series G are entitled to vote as specified in Section 8 of this Certificate of Designations, any
and all series of Preferred Stock (other than Series G) that rank equally with Series G either as
to the payment of dividends or as to the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
exercisable with respect to such matter.

Section 4. Dividends .

(a)  Rate . Holders of Series G shall be entitled to receive, on each share of Series G, out of
funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, cumulative cash dividends
with respect to each Dividend Period (as defined below) at a per annum rate of 10% on (i) the
amount of $100,000 per share of Series G and (ii) the amount of accrued and unpaid dividends on
such share of Series G, if any (giving effect to (A) any dividends paid through the Dividend
Payment Date (as defined below) that begins such Dividend Period (other than the initial Dividend
Period) and (B) any dividends (including dividends thereon at a per annum rate of 10% to the date
of payment) paid during such Dividend Period). Such dividends shall begin to accrue and be
cumulative from the Original Issue Date, shall compound on each Dividend Payment Date (i.e., no
dividends shall accrue on other dividends unless and until the first Dividend Payment Date for such
other dividends has passed without such other dividends having been paid on such date) and shall be
payable in arrears (as provided below in this Section 4(a)), but only when, as and if declared by
the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of
Directors) on each November 10, February 10, May 10 and August 10 (each, a   Dividend Payment
Date  ), commencing on November 10, 2008;  provided  that if any such Dividend Payment Date would
otherwise occur on a day that is not a Business Day, such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be
(and any dividend payable on Series G on such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be payable on)
the immediately succeeding Business Day. Dividends payable on the Series G in respect of any
Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day
months. The amount of dividends payable on the Series G on any date prior to the end of a Dividend
Period, and for the initial Dividend Period, shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year
consisting of twelve 30-day months, and actual days elapsed over a 30-day month.

Dividends that are payable on Series G on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders
of record of Series G as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable
record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date (as originally
scheduled) or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another
duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days
prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a   Dividend Record Date  ). Any such day that is
a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.

G-3 

Each dividend period (a   Dividend Period  ) shall commence on and include a Dividend
Payment Date (other than the initial Dividend Period, which shall commence on and include the
Original Issue Date of the Series G) and shall end on and include the calendar day next preceding
the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable in respect of a Dividend Period shall be
payable in arrears on the first Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Period.

Holders of Series G shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash,
securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series G as
specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designations).

(b)  Priority of Dividends . So long as any share of Series G remains outstanding, no dividend
shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than a
dividend payable solely in Junior Stock), and no Common Stock, Junior Stock or Parity Stock shall
be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or
indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior
Stock or of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock (with the same or lesser aggregate
liquidation amount) or Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for
or into another share of Junior Stock or of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of
Parity Stock (with the same or lesser per share liquidation amount) or Junior Stock) during a
Dividend Period, unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including
the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 4(a) above,
dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Series G have been declared and paid in
full (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside for the benefit
of the holders of shares of Series G on the applicable record date). The foregoing provision shall
not restrict the ability of Goldman, Sachs   Co., or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to
engage in any market-making or customer facilitation transactions in Junior Stock or Parity Stock
in the ordinary course of its business or, in connection with the issuance of Junior Stock or
Parity Stock, to engage in ordinary sale and repurchase transactions to facilitate the distribution
of such Junior Stock or Parity Stock.

When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside
for the benefit of the holders thereof on the applicable record date) on any Dividend Payment Date
(or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment
Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment
Date) in full upon the Series G and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on the
Series G and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of
Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend
payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be
declared pro rata so that the respective amounts of such dividends declared shall bear the same
ratio to each other as all accrued and unpaid dividends per share on the Series G (including, if
applicable as provided in Section 4(a) above,

G-4 

dividends on such amount) and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in
the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates,
on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment
Date) bear to each other.

Subject to the foregoing, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as
may be determined by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee
of the Board of Directors) may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and
other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and the
Series G shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.

Section 5. Liquidation Rights .

(a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Series G
shall be entitled to receive for each share of Series G, out of the assets of the Corporation or
proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the
Corporation, and after satisfaction of all liabilities and obligations to creditors of the
Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the
holders of Common Stock and any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series G as to
such distribution, payment in full in an amount equal to the sum of (i) $100,000 per share and
(ii) the accrued and unpaid dividends thereon (including, if applicable as provided in Section 4(a)
above, dividends on such amount), whether or not declared, to the date of payment.

(b)  Partial Payment . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the
Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preferences (as defined
below) in full to all holders of Series G and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking
equally with the Series G as to such distribution, the amounts paid to the holders of Series G and
to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid  pro rata  in accordance with the respective
aggregate Liquidation Preferences of the holders of Series G and the holders of all such other
stock. In any such distribution, the   Liquidation Preference   of any holder of stock of
the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution
(assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution),
including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of
stock, including the Series G, on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to
any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable, dividends on such amount), whether or
not declared, as applicable),  provided  that the Liquidation Preference for any share of Series G
shall be determined in accordance with Section 5(a) above.

(c)  Residual Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all
holders of Series G, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall

G-5 

be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according
to their respective rights and preferences.

(d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5,
the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity,
including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series G receive cash, securities or
other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other
property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

Section 6. Redemption .

(a)  Optional Redemption . The Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of the Board
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, may redeem, in whole at any time or in part from time
to time, the shares of Series G at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section
6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) $110,000 per share and (ii) the accrued
and unpaid dividends thereon (including, if applicable as provided in Section 4(a) above, dividends
on such amount), whether or not declared, to the redemption date,  provided  that the minimum number
of shares of Series G redeemable at any time is the lesser of (i) 10,000 shares of Series G and
(ii) the number of shares of Series G outstanding. The redemption price for any shares of Series G
shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the
certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid
dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a
Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the
redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such
Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above. An
exchange of Series G for Spinco Preferred (as defined in the Securities Purchase Agreement, dated
as of September 29, 2008, between the Corporation and Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (the   SPA  ))
pursuant to Section 4.7 of the SPA, shall not be deemed to be a redemption for purposes of this
Section 6.

(b)  No Sinking Fund . The Series G will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking
fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Series G will have no right to require redemption of
any shares of Series G.

(c)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series G shall be given by
first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed
at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall
be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice
mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given,
whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or
any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series G designated
for

G-6 

redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other
shares of Series G. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series G are issued in book-entry form
through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be
given to the holders of Series G at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each
notice of redemption given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of
shares of Series G to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be
redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and
(4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the
redemption price.

(d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of part of the shares of Series G at the
time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either  pro rata  or in such other
manner as the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions
hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions
upon which shares of Series G shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares
represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the
unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.

(e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or
before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been
deposited by the Corporation, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of the shares
called for redemption, with a bank or trust company doing business in the Borough of Manhattan, The
City of New York, and having a capital and surplus of at least $50 million and selected by the
Board of Directors, so as to be and continue to be available solely therefor, then, notwithstanding
that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for
cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so
called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding
and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and
terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such
redemption from such bank or trust company, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of
three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the
Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to
the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.

Section 7. Conversion . Holders of Series G shares shall have no right to exchange or convert
such shares into any other securities.

Section 8. Voting Rights .

(a)  General . The holders of Series G shall not have any voting rights except as set forth
below or as otherwise from time to time required by law.

G-7 

(b)  Class Voting Rights as to Particular Matters . So long as any shares of Series G are
outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the
Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 % of the shares of
Series G and any Voting Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon,
voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting
or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:

(i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of
Incorporation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of
any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series G with
respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;

(ii)  Amendment of Series G . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of
the Certificate of Incorporation so as to materially and adversely affect the special
rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series G, taken as a whole; or

(iii)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations . Any
consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series G, or of
a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity,
unless in each case (x) the shares of Series G remain outstanding or, in the case of any
such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or
resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the
surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining
outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken
as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the
Series G immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;

provided ,  however , that for all purposes of this Section 8(b), any increase in the amount of the
authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or
issued amount, of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the
Series G with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or
non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or
voting powers of the Series G.

If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or
consolidation specified in this Section 8(b) would adversely affect the Series G and one or more
but not all other series of Preferred Stock, then only the Series G and

G-8 

such series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter
shall vote on the matter together as a single class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred
Stock).

If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or
consolidation specified in this Section 8(b) would adversely affect the Series G but would not
similarly adversely affect all other series of Voting Parity Stock, then only the Series G and each
other series of Voting Parity Stock as is similarly adversely affected by and entitled to vote on
the matter, if any, shall vote on the matter together as a single class (in lieu of all other
series of Preferred Stock).

(c)  Series G Voting Rights as to Particular Matters . In addition to any other vote or consent
of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, so long as at least 10,000
shares of Series G are outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 50.1% of the
shares of Series G at the time outstanding, voting in person or by proxy, either in writing without
a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or
validating:

(i)  Authorization or Issuance of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the
Certificate of Incorporation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of,
any shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation, or the issuance of
any shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation, in each case,
ranking senior to the Series G with respect to either or both the payment of dividends
and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation;

(ii)  Amendment of Series G . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of
the Certificate of Incorporation so as to affect or change the rights, preferences,
privileges or voting powers of the Series G so as not to be substantially similar to those
in effect immediately prior to such amendment, alteration or repeal; or

(iii)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations . Any
consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series G, or of
a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity,
unless in each case (x) the shares of Series G remain outstanding or, in the case of any
such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or
resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the
surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining
outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof as are
substantially similar to the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and
limitations and restrictions of the Series G immediately prior to such consummation;

G-9 

provided ,  however , that for all purposes of this Section 8(c), the creation and issuance, or an
increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking equally
with and/or junior to the Series G with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends
are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution
or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences,
privileges or voting powers of the Series G.

(d)  Changes after Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of Series G
shall be required pursuant to Section 8(b) or (c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such
vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of
Series G (or, in the case of Section 8(c), more than 40,000 shares of Series G) shall have been
redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall
have been deposited in trust for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6 above.

(e)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting
any meeting of the holders of Series G (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date
in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of
written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents
shall be governed by any rules of the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors), in its discretion, may adopt from time to time,
which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation,
the Bylaws, and applicable law and the rules of any national securities exchange or other trading
facility on which the Series G is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the
holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series G and any Voting
Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series G are
entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation
amount of the shares voted or covered by the consent ( provided  that the specified liquidation
amount for any share of Series G shall be the Liquidation Preference for such share) as if the
Corporation were liquidated on the record date for such vote or consent, if any, or, in the absence
of a record date, on the date for such vote or consent.

Section 9. Record Holders . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation
and the transfer agent for the Series G may deem and treat the record holder of any share of
Series G as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor
such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.

Section 10. Notices . All notices or communications in respect of Series G shall be
sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage
prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations,
in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
if the Series G are issued in book-entry form

G-10 

through The Depository Trust Company or any similar facility, such notices may be given to the
holders of Series G in any manner permitted by such facility.

Section 11. No Preemptive Rights . No share of Series G shall have any rights of preemption
whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or
granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or
options, may be designated, issued or granted.

Section 12. Replacement Certificates . The Corporation shall replace any mutilated certificate
at the holder s expense upon surrender of that certificate to the Corporation. The Corporation
shall replace certificates that become destroyed, stolen or lost at the holder s expense upon
delivery to the Corporation of reasonably satisfactory evidence that the certificate has been
destroyed, stolen or lost, together with any indemnity that may be reasonably required by the
Corporation.

Section 13. Other Rights . The shares of Series G shall not have any rights, preferences,
privileges or voting powers or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or
qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the
Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.

G-11 

Appendix H 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 

OF 

FIXED RATE CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES H 

OF 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the   Corporation  ), in accordance with the
provisions of Sections 103 and 151 thereof, does hereby certify:

The Securities Issuance Committee of the board of directors of the Corporation (the   Board
of Directors  ), in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated September
16, 2005, September 29, 2006 and October 13, 2008, the provisions of the restated certificate of
incorporation and the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, at a
meeting duly called and held on October 26, 2008, adopted the following resolution creating a
series of 10,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated as   Fixed Rate
Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series H  .

RESOLVED , that pursuant to the authority vested in the Securities Issuance Committee and in
accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated September 16, 2005, September 29,
2006 and October 13, 2008, the provisions of the restated certificate of incorporation and the
amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par
value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and
number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, preferences and relative,
participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions
thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:

Section 1. Designation and Number of Shares . There is hereby created out of the authorized
and unissued shares of preferred stock of the Corporation a series of preferred stock designated as
the  Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series H  (the   Designated Preferred
Stock  ). The authorized number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be 10,000,000.

Section 2. Standard Provisions . The Standard Provisions contained in Annex A attached hereto
are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this
Certificate of Designations to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in full
herein.

Section 3. Definitions . The following terms are used in this Certificate of Designations
(including the Standard Provisions in Annex A hereto) as defined below:

(a)   Common Stock   means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the
Corporation.

(b)   Dividend Payment Date   means February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of
each year.

(c)   Junior Stock   means the Common Stock, and any other class or series of stock of
the Corporation the terms of which expressly provide that it ranks junior to Designated Preferred
Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation.

(d)   Liquidation Amount   means $1,000 per share of Designated Preferred Stock.

(e)   Minimum Amount   means $2,500,000,000.

(f)   Parity Stock   means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than
Designated Preferred Stock) the terms of which do not expressly provide that such class or series
will rank senior or junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights
on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation (in each case without regard to
whether dividends accrue cumulatively or non-cumulatively). Without limiting the foregoing, Parity
Stock shall include the Corporation s (i) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 
(ii) 6.20% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series  (iii) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred
Stock, Series  (iv) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series  (v) Perpetual
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series  (vi) Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 
and (vii) 10% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series G.

(g)   Signing Date   means October 26, 2008.

Section 4. Certain Voting Matters . Whether the
vote or consent of the holders of a plurality,
majority or other portion of the shares of
Designated Preferred Stock and any Voting Parity
Stock has been cast or given on any matter on
which the holders of shares of Designated
Preferred Stock are entitled to vote shall be
determined by the Corporation by reference to the
specified liquidation amount of the shares voted
or covered by the consent as if the Corporation
were liquidated on the record date for such vote
or consent, if any, or, in the absence of a
record date, on the date for such vote or
consent. For purposes of determining the voting
rights of the holders of Designated Preferred
Stock under Section 7 of the Standard Provisions
forming part of this Certificate of Designations,
each holder will be entitled to one vote for each
$1,000 of liquidation preference to which such
holder s shares are entitled.

H-2 

Annex A to Appendix H 

STANDARD PROVISIONS  

Section 1. General Matters . Each share of Designated Preferred Stock shall be identical in all
respects to every other share of Designated Preferred Stock. The Designated Preferred Stock shall
be perpetual, subject to the provisions of Section 5 of these Standard Provisions that form a part
of the Certificate of Designations. The Designated Preferred Stock shall rank equally with Parity
Stock and shall rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the
distribution of assets in the event of any dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the
Corporation.

Section 2. Standard Definitions . As used herein with respect to Designated Preferred Stock:

(a)   Applicable Dividend Rate   means (i) during the period from the Original Issue
Date to, but excluding, the first day of the first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth
anniversary of the Original Issue Date, 5% per annum and (ii) from and after the first day of the
first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth anniversary of the Original Issue Date, 9%
per annum.

(b)   Appropriate Federal Banking Agency   means the  appropriate Federal banking
agency  with respect to the Corporation as defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act (12 U.S.C. Section 1813(q)), or any successor provision.

(c)   Business Combination   means a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or
similar transaction that requires the approval of the Corporation s stockholders.

(d)   Business Day   means any day except Saturday, Sunday and any day on which banking
institutions in the State of New York generally are authorized or required by law or other
governmental actions to close.

(e)   Bylaws   means the bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to
time.

(f)   Certificate of Designations   means the Certificate of Designations or comparable
instrument relating to the Designated Preferred Stock, of which these Standard Provisions form a
part, as it may be amended from time to time.

(g)   Charter   means the Corporation s certificate or articles of incorporation,
articles of association, or similar organizational document.

(h)   Dividend Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).

(i)   Dividend Record Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).

(j)   Liquidation Preference   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).

(k)   Original Issue Date   means the date on which shares of Designated Preferred Stock
are first issued.

(l)   Preferred Director   has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).

(m)   Preferred Stock   means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation,
including the Designated Preferred Stock.

(n)   Qualified Equity Offering   means the sale and issuance for cash by the
Corporation to persons other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries after the Original
Issue Date of shares of perpetual Preferred Stock, Common Stock or any combination of such stock,
that, in each case, qualify as and may be included in Tier 1 capital of the Corporation at the time
of issuance under the applicable risk-based capital guidelines of the Corporation s Appropriate
Federal Banking Agency (other than any such sales and issuances made pursuant to agreements or
arrangements entered into, or pursuant to financing plans which were publicly announced, on or
prior to October 13, 2008).

(o)   Share Dilution Amount   has the meaning set forth in Section 3(b).

(p)   Standard Provisions   mean these Standard Provisions that form a part of the
Certificate of Designations relating to the Designated Preferred Stock.

(q)   Successor Preferred Stock   has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a).

(r)   Voting Parity Stock   means, with regard to any matter as to which the holders of
Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote as specified in Sections 7(a) and 7(b) of these
Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations, any and all series of
Parity Stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to
such matter.

Section 3. Dividends .

(a)  Rate . Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, on each share of
Designated Preferred Stock if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors or any duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors, but only out of assets legally available therefor,
cumulative cash dividends with respect to each Dividend Period (as defined below) at a rate per
annum equal to the Applicable Dividend Rate on (i) the Liquidation Amount per share of Designated
Preferred Stock and (ii) the amount of accrued and unpaid dividends for any prior Dividend Period
on such share of Designated Preferred Stock, if any. Such dividends shall begin to accrue and be
cumulative from the Original Issue Date, shall compound on each subsequent Dividend Payment Date
( i.e. , no dividends shall accrue on other dividends unless and until the first Dividend Payment
Date for such other dividends has passed without such other dividends

H-A-2 

having been paid on such date) and shall be payable quarterly in arrears on each Dividend
Payment Date, commencing with the first such Dividend Payment Date to occur at least 20 calendar
days after the Original Issue Date. In the event that any Dividend Payment Date would otherwise
fall on a day that is not a Business Day, the dividend payment due on that date will be postponed
to the next day that is a Business Day and no additional dividends will accrue as a result of that
postponement. The period from and including any Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next
Dividend Payment Date is a   Dividend Period  , provided that the initial Dividend Period
shall be the period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend
Payment Date.

Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock in respect of any Dividend Period
shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. The amount of
dividends payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any date prior to the end of a Dividend Period,
and for the initial Dividend Period, shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of
twelve 30-day months, and actual days elapsed over a 30-day month.

Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date will be
payable to holders of record of Designated Preferred Stock as they appear on the stock register of
the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day immediately
preceding such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or
any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10
days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a   Dividend Record Date  ). Any such day
that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a
Business Day.

Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable
in cash, securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on
Designated Preferred Stock as specified in this Section 3 (subject to the other provisions of the
Certificate of Designations).

(b)  Priority of Dividends . So long as any share of Designated Preferred Stock remains
outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other
shares of Junior Stock (other than dividends payable solely in shares of Common Stock) or Parity
Stock, subject to the immediately following paragraph in the case of Parity Stock, and no Common
Stock, Junior Stock or Parity Stock shall be, directly or indirectly, purchased, redeemed or
otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries unless all
accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend
Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on
all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been or are contemporaneously declared
and paid in full (or have been declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set
aside for the benefit of the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock on the applicable
record date). The foregoing limitation shall

H-A-3 

not apply to (i) redemptions, purchases or other acquisitions of shares of Common Stock or
other Junior Stock in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the
ordinary course of business (including purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount (as defined
below) pursuant to a publicly announced repurchase plan) and consistent with past practice,
 provided  that any purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount shall in no event exceed the Share
Dilution Amount; (ii) purchases or other acquisitions by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the
Corporation solely for the purpose of market-making, stabilization or customer facilitation
transactions in Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary course of its business; (iii)
purchases by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation of capital stock of the Corporation for
resale pursuant to an offering by the Corporation of such capital stock underwritten by such
broker-dealer subsidiary; (iv) any dividends or distributions of rights or Junior Stock in
connection with a stockholders  rights plan or any redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant to
any stockholders  rights plan; (v) the acquisition by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries of
record ownership in Junior Stock or Parity Stock for the beneficial ownership of any other persons
(other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries), including as trustees or custodians; and
(vi) the exchange or conversion of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock or of Parity Stock
for or into other Parity Stock (with the same or lesser aggregate liquidation amount) or Junior
Stock, in each case, solely to the extent required pursuant to binding contractual agreements
entered into prior to the Signing Date or any subsequent agreement for the accelerated exercise,
settlement or exchange thereof for Common Stock.   Share Dilution Amount   means the
increase in the number of diluted shares outstanding (determined in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles in the United States, and as measured from the date of the
Corporation s consolidated financial statements most recently filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission prior to the Original Issue Date) resulting from the grant, vesting or exercise
of equity-based compensation to employees and equitably adjusted for any stock split, stock
dividend, reverse stock split, reclassification or similar transaction.

When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside
for the benefit of the holders thereof on the applicable record date) on any Dividend Payment Date
(or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment
Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment
Date) in full upon Designated Preferred Stock and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends
declared on Designated Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend
Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the
Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to
such Dividend Payment Date) shall be declared  pro rata  so that the respective amounts of such
dividends declared shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued and unpaid dividends per
share on the shares of Designated Preferred Stock (including, if applicable as provided in Section
3(a) above, dividends on such amount) and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date
(or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment
Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend

H-A-4 

Payment Date) (subject to their having been declared by the Board of Directors or a duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors out of legally available funds and including, in the
case of Parity Stock that bears cumulative dividends, all accrued but unpaid dividends) bear to
each other. If the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors
determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation
will provide written notice to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock prior to such Dividend
Payment Date.

Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or
other property) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of
the Board of Directors may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and other
Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and holders of
Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.

Section 4. Liquidation Rights .

(a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of
Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive for each share of Designated Preferred
Stock, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus)
available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, subject to the rights of any
creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set
aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to
Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution, payment in full in an amount equal to the sum
of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) the amount of any accrued and unpaid dividends
(including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), whether or
not declared, to the date of payment (such amounts collectively, the   Liquidation
Preference  ).

(b)  Partial Payment . If in any distribution described in Section 4(a) above the assets of the
Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay in full the amounts payable with respect
to all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with
respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated Preferred Stock as to
such distribution, holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the holders of such other stock shall
share ratably in any such distribution in proportion to the full respective distributions to which
they are entitled.

(c)  Residual Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders
of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock
of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution has been
paid in full, the holders of

H-A-5 

other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the
Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.

(d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 4,
the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity,
including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Designated Preferred Stock receive
cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash,
securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall
not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

Section 5. Redemption .

(a)  Optional Redemption . Except as provided below, the Designated Preferred Stock may not be
redeemed prior to the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the
Original Issue Date. On or after the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third
anniversary of the Original Issue Date, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of
the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time and from time
to time, out of funds legally available therefor, the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the
time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption price equal
to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise provided below, any
accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends
on such amount) (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the
date fixed for redemption.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after
the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the
approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time
and from time to time, the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon
notice given as provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) the
Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise provided below, any accrued and unpaid
dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount)
(regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the date fixed for
redemption;  provided  that (x) the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) has
received aggregate gross proceeds of not less than the Minimum Amount (plus the  Minimum Amount  as
defined in the relevant certificate of designations for each other outstanding series of preferred
stock of such successor that was originally issued to the United States Department of the Treasury
(the   Successor Preferred Stock  ) in connection with the Troubled Asset Relief Program
Capital Purchase Program) from one or more Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity
Offerings of such successor), and (y) the aggregate redemption price of the Designated Preferred
Stock (and any Successor Preferred Stock) redeemed pursuant to this paragraph may not exceed the
aggregate net cash proceeds received by the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination)

H-A-6 

from such Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor).

The redemption price for any shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be payable on the
redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing
such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a
redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not
be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather
shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating
to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 3 above.

(b)  No Sinking Fund . The Designated Preferred Stock will not be subject to any mandatory
redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Designated Preferred Stock will
have no right to require redemption or repurchase of any shares of Designated Preferred Stock.

(c)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Designated Preferred Stock
shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the
shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation.
Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for
redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have
been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such
notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of
Designated Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the
proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Designated Preferred Stock. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, if shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The
Depository Trust Corporation or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to
the holders of Designated Preferred Stock at such time and in any manner permitted by such
facility. Each notice of redemption given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the
number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held
by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3)
the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be
surrendered for payment of the redemption price.

(d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of part of the shares of Designated
Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either  pro
rata  or in such other manner as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof may
determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Board of Directors or a
duly authorized committee thereof shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and
conditions upon which shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. If
fewer than all the

H-A-7 

shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued
representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.

(e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or
before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been
deposited by the Corporation, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of the shares called
for redemption, with a bank or trust company doing business in the Borough of Manhattan, The City
of New York, and having a capital and surplus of at least $500 million and selected by the Board of
Directors, so as to be and continue to be available solely therefor, then, notwithstanding that any
certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on
and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for
redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all
rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate,
except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from
such bank or trust company, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three years from
the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after
which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation
for payment of the redemption price of such shares.

(f)  Status of Redeemed Shares . Shares of Designated Preferred Stock that are redeemed,
repurchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall revert to authorized but unissued shares
of Preferred Stock ( provided  that any such cancelled shares of Designated Preferred Stock may be
reissued only as shares of any series of Preferred Stock other than Designated Preferred Stock).

Section 6. Conversion . Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shares shall have no right to
exchange or convert such shares into any other securities.

Section 7. Voting Rights .

(a)  General . The holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any voting rights except
as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by law.

(b)  Preferred Stock Directors . Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on the
shares of Designated Preferred Stock have not been paid for an aggregate of six quarterly Dividend
Periods or more, whether or not consecutive, the authorized number of directors of the Corporation
shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of the Designated Preferred Stock shall
have the right, with holders of shares of any one or more other classes or series of Voting Parity
Stock outstanding at the time, voting together as a class, to elect two directors (hereinafter the
 "  Preferred Directors     and each a  "  Preferred Director  " ) to fill such newly created
directorships at the Corporation s next annual meeting of stockholders (or at a special meeting
called for that

H-A-8 

purpose prior to such next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting of
stockholders until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the
latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above,
dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been
declared and paid in full at which time such right shall terminate with respect to the Designated
Preferred Stock, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event
of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned;  provided  that it shall be a
qualification for election for any Preferred Director that the election of such Preferred Director
shall not cause the Corporation to violate any corporate governance requirements of any securities
exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or
traded that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors. Upon any
termination of the right of the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock and Voting Parity
Stock as a class to vote for directors as provided above, the Preferred Directors shall cease to be
qualified as directors, the term of office of all Preferred Directors then in office shall
terminate immediately and the authorized number of directors shall be reduced by the number of
Preferred Directors elected pursuant hereto. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time,
with or without cause, and any vacancy created thereby may be filled, only by the affirmative vote
of the holders a majority of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding
voting separately as a class together with the holders of shares of Voting Parity Stock, to the
extent the voting rights of such holders described above are then exercisable. If the office of
any Preferred Director becomes vacant for any reason other than removal from office as aforesaid,
the remaining Preferred Director may choose a successor who shall hold office for the unexpired
term in respect of which such vacancy occurred.

(c)  Class Voting Rights as to Particular Matters . So long as any shares of Designated
Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required
by law or by the Charter, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of
Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, voting as a separate class, given in person or
by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose,
shall be necessary for effecting or validating:

(i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of
Designations for the Designated Preferred Stock or the Charter to authorize or create or
increase the authorized amount of, or any issuance of, any shares of, or any securities
convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of, any class or series of
capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to Designated Preferred Stock with respect
to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;

(ii)  Amendment of Designated Preferred Stock . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of
any provision of the Certificate of Designations for the

H-A-9 

Designated Preferred Stock or the Charter (including, unless no vote on such merger or
consolidation is required by Section 7(c)(iii) below, any amendment, alteration or repeal
by means of a merger, consolidation or otherwise) so as to adversely affect the rights,
preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Designated Preferred Stock; or

(iii)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations.  Any consummation
of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Designated Preferred Stock,
or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other
entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Designated Preferred Stock remain outstanding
or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation
is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference
securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares
remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken
as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of
Designated Preferred Stock immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;

provided ,  however , that for all purposes of this Section 7(c), any increase in the amount of the
authorized Preferred Stock, including any increase in the authorized amount of Designated Preferred
Stock necessary to satisfy preemptive or similar rights granted by the Corporation to other persons
prior to the Signing Date, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued
amount, whether pursuant to preemptive or similar rights or otherwise, of any other series of
Preferred Stock, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any other
series of Preferred Stock, ranking equally with and/or junior to Designated Preferred Stock with
respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and
the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not
be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers, and shall not
require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of the Designated
Preferred Stock.

(d)  Changes after Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of Designated
Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(c) above if, at or prior to the time when
any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding
shares of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for
redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust for such
redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 5 above.

H-A-10 

(e)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting
any meeting of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing
of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting,
the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or
such consents shall be governed by any rules of the Board of Directors or any duly authorized
committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules
and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Charter, the Bylaws, and applicable law and
the rules of any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which Designated
Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time.

Section 8. Record Holders . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation
and the transfer agent for Designated Preferred Stock may deem and treat the record holder of any
share of Designated Preferred Stock as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and
neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.

Section 9. Notices . All notices or communications in respect of Designated Preferred Stock
shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail,
postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of
Designations, in the Charter or Bylaws or by applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust
Corporation or any similar facility, such notices may be given to the holders of Designated
Preferred Stock in any manner permitted by such facility.

Section 10. No Preemptive Rights . No share of Designated Preferred Stock shall have any rights
of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or
options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such
warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.

Section 11. Replacement Certificates . The Corporation shall replace any mutilated certificate
at the holder s expense upon surrender of that certificate to the Corporation. The Corporation
shall replace certificates that become destroyed, stolen or lost at the holder s expense upon
delivery to the Corporation of reasonably satisfactory evidence that the certificate has been
destroyed, stolen or lost, together with any indemnity that may be reasonably required by the
Corporation.

Section 12. Other Rights . The shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any rights,
preferences, privileges or voting powers or relative, participating, optional or other special
rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or
in the Charter or as provided by applicable law.

H-A-11 

</EX-3.1>

<EX-4.5>
 3
 y74032exv4w5.htm
 EX-4.5: FORM OF FLOATING RATE SENIOR DEBT SECURITY (TLGP)

EX-4.5 

Exhibit 4.5 

FORM OF FLOATING RATE SENIOR DEBT SECURITY  

Registered No. 

CUSIP No. 
ISIN No.  

(Face of Security) 

IF A GLOBAL SECURITY, INSERT   THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE
2008 INDENTURE AS DEFINED ON THE REVERSE OF THIS SECURITY AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A
DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A
SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE
NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED
CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE 2008 INDENTURE AND THIS SECURITY.  

IF DTC IS THE DEPOSITARY, INSERT   UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ( DTC ), TO THE GOLDMAN
SACHS GROUP, INC. OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY
CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE   CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY
AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE   CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY
AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF
FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF,
CEDE   CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.  

INSERT ANY LEGEND REQUIRED BY THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE AND THE REGULATIONS THEREUNDER.  

INSERT ANY LEGEND REQUIRED BY THE EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT AND THE REGULATIONS
THEREUNDER.  

THIS SECURITY IS GUARANTEED BY THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION, AND THE RIGHTS OF
THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN RIGHTS OF THE FDIC, AS AND TO THE EXTENT
INDICATED IN THIS SECURITY, INCLUDING SECTIONS 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 AND 16 ON THE REVERSE
HEREOF. 

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-1- 

Title of Series:                       
Title of Securities:                       

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 

TITLE OF SECURITY  

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the
State of Delaware (hereinafter called the  Company , which term includes any successor Person under
the 2008 Indenture (as defined on the reverse of this Security)), for value received, hereby
promises to pay to    , or registered assigns, the principal sum of    on    and to pay interest
thereon, from    or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or
made available for payment,    on    in each year (each, an  Interest Payment Date ), commencing on
   and at the Maturity of the principal hereof, until the principal hereof is paid or made
available for payment, at the rate of   IF APPLICABLE, INSERT  -    % above    LIBOR  EURIBOR ,
determined in accordance with the following provisions and reset effective each Interest Reset
Date.   IF FOLLOWING BUSINESS DAY CONVENTION APPLIES, INSERT    If an Interest Payment Date would
otherwise be a day that is not a Business Day, the Interest Payment Date will be postponed to the
next day that is a Business Day.   IF MODIFIED FOLLOWING BUSINESS DAY CONVENTION APPLIES, ALSO
INSERT    However, if that Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, the Interest
Payment Date will instead be advanced to the immediately preceding day that is a Business Day.   
 IF FOLLOWING UNADJUSTED BUSINESS DAY CONVENTION APPLIES, INSERT    If an Interest Payment Date
would otherwise be a day that is not a Business Day, the payment due on that Interest Payment Date
(but no such Interest Payment Date) will be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day;
 provided ,  however , that interest due with respect to such Interest Payment Date
shall not accrue from and including such Interest Payment Date shall not accrue from and including
such Interest Payment Date to and including the date of payment of such interest as so postponed
  IF MODIFIED FOLLOWING UNADJUSTED BUSINESS DAY CONVENTION APPLIES, ALSO INSERT  ,  and
 provided   further  that, if such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next
succeeding calendar month, the date of payment with respect to such Interest Payment Date (but not
such Interest Payment Date) will be advanced to the Business Day immediately preceding such
Interest Payment Date   .     Not withstanding
the foregoing, an Interest Payment Date that falls on the Maturity
of this Security will not be changed. Any such installment
of interest that is overdue shall also bear interest at the same rate
in effect during the Interest Period ending on the due date of such
installment of interest (to the extent that the payment of such
interest shall be legally enforceable), from the date any such
overdue amount first becomes due until it is paid or made available
for payment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, interest on any
installment of interest that is overdue shall be payable on demand.

Unless otherwise specified, interest on this Security shall be calculated on the basis of a
360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed. Payments of interest on this Security with
respect to any Interest Payment Date or at the Maturity of the principal hereof will include
interest accrued to but excluding such Interest Payment Date or the date of such Maturity, as the
case may be. Accrued interest from the date of issue or from the last date to which interest has
been paid or made available for payment shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent by  multiplying 
the principal amount by an accrued interest factor. Such accrued interest factor shall be computed
by adding the interest factors calculated for each day from and including the date of issue or from
and including the last date to which interest has been paid or made available for payment, to but
excluding the date for which accrued interest is being calculated. The interest factor for each
such day shall be expressed as a decimal and computed by  dividing  the interest rate (also expressed
as a decimal) in effect on such day by 360. Notwithstanding the foregoing, interest on this
Security shall not be higher than the maximum rate permitted by New York law, as it may be modified
by U.S. law of general applicability.

For the purposes of this Security,  LIBOR  EURIBOR  will be determined in the following
manner:

IF LIBOR, INSERT    LIBOR will be the offered rate for  insert applicable index maturity 
deposits in  insert applicable index currency , as that rate appears on the Reuters Screen LIBOR
Page as of

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-2- 

11:00 A.M., London time, on the relevant Interest Determination Date, beginning on the
relevant Interest Reset Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, LIBOR for the initial Interest Period
will be the Initial Base Rate.

If the rate described above does not so appear on the Reuters Screen LIBOR Page, LIBOR will be
determined on the basis of the rates, at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time, on the relevant
Interest Determination Date, at which deposits of the following kind are offered to prime banks in
the London interbank market by four major banks in that market selected by the Calculation Agent:
 insert applicable index maturity   insert applicable index currency  deposits, beginning on the
relevant Interest Reset Date, and in a Representative Amount. The Calculation Agent will request
the principal London office of each such bank to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two
quotations are provided, LIBOR for the relevant Interest Determination Date will be the arithmetic
mean of the quotations.

If fewer than two quotations are provided as described above, LIBOR for the relevant Interest
Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of the rates for loans of the following kind to
leading European banks quoted, at approximately 11:00 A.M., in  the principal financial center for
the country of the applicable index currency , on that Interest Determination Date, by three major
banks in  that principal financial center  selected by the Calculation Agent:  insert applicable
index maturity   insert applicable index currency  loans, beginning on the relevant Interest Reset
Date, and in a Representative Amount.

If fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as described above,
LIBOR for the new Interest Period will be LIBOR in effect for the prior Interest Period. If the
Initial Base Rate has been in effect for the prior Interest Period, however, it will remain in
effect for the new Interest Period.

For all purposes of this Security:

The term  Initial Base Rate  means the base rate in effect for the initial Interest Period.
This rate will be    %, which is the  insert applicable index maturity  deposits in  insert
applicable index currency  LIBOR rate on    , as determined by the Calculation Agent.

The term  Interest Determination Date  means   IF INDEX CURRENCY IS NOT POUNDS STERLING, INSERT
   two London Business Days prior to    the first day of each Interest Period.

The term  Interest Period  means, with respect to the initial Interest Period, the period from
and including    to, but excluding, the initial Interest Reset Date and, with respect to the
subsequent Interest Periods, the periods from and including an Interest Reset Date to, but
excluding, the next Interest Reset Date.

The term  Interest Reset Date  means every    , commencing on    , on each of which the rate
of interest on this Security will be reset. If any Interest Reset Date would otherwise be a day
that is not a Business Day with respect to this Security, the Interest Reset Date shall be the next
succeeding day that is a Business Day with respect to this Security. However, if that Business Day
is in the next succeeding calendar month, the Interest Reset Date will instead be the immediately
preceding Business Day. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Interest Reset Date that falls on the
Maturity of this Security will not be changed.

The term  London Business Day  means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday that
is not a day on which banking institutions in London generally are authorized or obligated by law,
regulation or executive order to close and is also a day on which dealings in  insert applicable
index currency  are transacted in the London interbank market.

The term  Representative Amount  means an amount that, in the Calculation Agent s judgment, is
representative of a single transaction in the relevant market at the relevant time.

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-3- 

The term  Reuters Screen LIBOR Page  means the display on the Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page or
Reuters Screen LIBOR02 Page, as specified on the face hereof, or any successor or replacement page
or pages on that or any successor service, on which London interbank rates of major banks for the
Index Currency are displayed.   

IF EURIBOR, INSERT    For the purposes of this Security, EURIBOR will be determined in the
following manner:

EURIBOR will be the offered rate per annum for  insert applicable index maturity  deposits in
euros, beginning on the second Euro Business Day after the relevant Interest Determination Date, as
that rate appears on the Reuters Screen EURIBOR01 Page as of 11:00 A.M., Brussels time, on the
relevant Interest Determination Date. EURIBOR for the initial Interest Period will be the Initial
Base Rate.

If the rate described above does not so appear on the Reuters Screen EURIBOR01 Page, EURIBOR
will be determined on the basis of the rates, at approximately 11:00 A.M., Brussels time, on the
relevant Interest Determination Date, at which deposits of the following kind are offered to prime
banks in the euro-zone interbank market by the principal euro-zone office of each of four major
banks in that market selected by the Calculation Agent:  insert applicable index maturity  deposits
in euros, beginning on the relevant Interest Reset Date, and in a Representative Amount. The
Calculation Agent will request the principal euro-zone office of each of these banks to provide a
quotation of its rate. If at least two quotations are provided, EURIBOR for the relevant Interest
Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of the quotations.

If fewer than two quotations are provided as described above, EURIBOR for the relevant
Interest Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of the rates for loans of the following
kind to leading euro-zone banks quoted, at approximately 11:00 A.M., Brussels time, on that
Interest Determination Date, by three major banks in the euro-zone selected by the Calculation
Agent: loans of euros having the maturity of  insert applicable index maturity , beginning on the
relevant Interest Reset Date, and in a Representative Amount.

If fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as described above,
EURIBOR for the new Interest Period will be EURIBOR in effect for the prior Interest Period. If
the Initial Base Rate has been in effect for the prior Interest Period, however, it will remain in
effect for the new Interest Period.

For all purposes of this Security:

The term  Initial Base Rate  means the base rate in effect for the initial Interest Period.
This rate will be    %, which is the  insert applicable index maturity  deposits in euros EURIBOR
rate on    , as determined by the Calculation Agent.

The term  Interest Determination Date  means two Euro Business Days prior to the first day of
each Interest Period.

The term  Interest Period  means, with respect to the initial Interest Period, the period from
and including    to, but excluding, the initial Interest Reset Date and, with respect to the
subsequent Interest Periods, the periods from and including an Interest Reset Date to, but
excluding, the next Interest Reset Date.

The term  Interest Reset Date  means every    , commencing on    , on each of which the rate
of interest on this Security will be reset. If any Interest Reset Date would otherwise be a day
that is not a Business Day with respect to this Security, the Interest Reset Date shall be the next
succeeding day that is a Business Day with respect to this Security. However, if that Business Day
is in the next succeeding calendar month, the Interest Reset Date will instead be the immediately
preceding Business Day.

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-4- 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Interest Reset Date that falls on the Maturity of this
Security will not be changed.

The term  Euro Business Day  means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday on
which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System, or
any successor system, is open for business.

The term  Representative Amount  means an amount that, in the Calculation Agent s judgment, is
representative of a single transaction in the relevant market at the relevant time.

The term  Reuters Screen EURIBOR01 Page  means the display on the Reuters 3000 Xtra Service,
or any successor or replacement service, on the page designated as  EURIBOR01  or successor or any
replacement page or pages on which euro-zone interbank rates of major banks for deposits in euros
are displayed.   

All percentages resulting from any calculation with respect to this Security shall be rounded
upward or downward, as appropriate, to the next higher or lower one hundred-thousandth of a
percentage point (e.g., 9.876541% (or .09876541) being rounded down to 9.87654% (or .0987654) and
9.876545% (or .09876545) being rounded up to 9.87655% (or .0987655)). All amounts used in or
resulting from any calculation with respect to this Security shall be rounded upward or downward,
as appropriate, to the nearest cent with one-half or more of a cent being rounded upward.

The interest so payable, and punctually paid or made available for payment, on any Interest
Payment Date will, as provided in the 2008 Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this
Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the
Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the    (whether or not a Business Day, as
defined below) next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any interest so payable, but not
punctually paid or made available for payment, on any Interest Payment Date will forthwith cease to
be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and such Defaulted Interest may either be paid
to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at
the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be
fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof being given to the Holder of this Security not less than 10
days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with
the requirements of any securities exchange on which this Security may be listed, and upon such
notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the 2008 Indenture. For
the purpose of determining the Holder at the close of business on any relevant record date when
business is not conducted, the close of business will mean 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on that
day.

The Company and the Trustee acknowledge that the Company has not opted out of the debt
guarantee program (the  Debt Guarantee Program ) established by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation ( FDIC ) under its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. As a result,  this debt is
guaranteed under the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program and is backed by the full faith and
credit of the United States. The details of the FDIC guarantee are provided in the FDIC s
regulations, 12 CFR Part 370, and at the FDIC s website, www.fdic.gov/tlgp. The expiration date of
the FDIC s guarantee is the earlier of the maturity date of this debt or June 30, 2012 .

The Trustee is hereby designated as the duly authorized representative of the Holder for
purposes of making claims and taking other permitted or required actions under the Debt Guarantee
Program (the  Representative ). The Holder of this Security may elect not to be represented by
the Representative with respect to this Security by providing written notice of such election to
the Representative.

Notwithstanding any provision of this Security, any right of the Holder to receive payment in
respect of this Security under the Debt Guarantee Program shall be subject to the procedures and
other requirements of the Debt Guarantee Program, and the Holder will not be entitled under the
Debt Guarantee

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-5- 

Program to receive any additional interest or penalty amounts on account of any default or
resulting delay in payment in respect of this Security.

Currency and Manner of Payment  

IF PAYMENT IS IN U.S. DOLLARS, INSERT    Payment of the principal of and premium or interest
on this Security will be made in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the
time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Security or the 2008 Indenture, if this Security is a Global Security, any
payment in respect of this Security may be made pursuant to the Applicable Procedures of the
Depositary as permitted in the 2008 Indenture.

Subject to the prior paragraph and except as provided in the next paragraph, payment of any
amount payable on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for
that purpose in The City of New York (and at any other office or agency maintained by the Company
for that purpose), against surrender of this Security in the case of any payment due at the
Maturity of the principal hereof (other than any payment of interest that first becomes due on an
Interest Payment Date);  provided ,  however , that, at the option of the Company and
subject to the next paragraph, payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of
the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.

Subject to the second preceding paragraph, payment of any amount payable on this Security will
be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account maintained by the payee with
a bank located in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, if (i) the principal of this
Security is at least $1,000,000 (or the equivalent in another currency) and (ii) the Holder
entitled to receive such payment transmits a written request for such payment to be made in such
manner to the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, on
or before the fifth Business Day before the day on which such payment is to be made;
 provided  that, in the case of any such payment due at the Maturity of the principal hereof
(other than any payment of interest that first becomes due on an Interest Payment Date), this
Security must be surrendered at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in
The City of New York (or at any other office or agency maintained by the Company for that purpose)
in time for the Paying Agent to make such payment in such funds in accordance with its normal
procedures. Any such request made with respect to any payment on this Security payable to a
particular Holder will remain in effect for all later payments on this Security payable to such
Holder, unless such request is revoked on or before the fifth Business Day before a payment is to
be made, in which case such revocation shall be effective for such payment and all later payments.
In the case of any payment of interest payable on an Interest Payment Date, such written request
must be made by the Person who is the registered Holder of this Security on the relevant Regular
Record Date. The Company will pay any administrative costs imposed by banks in connection with
making payments by wire transfer with respect to this Security, but any tax, assessment or other
governmental charge imposed upon any payment will be borne by the Holder of this Security and may
be deducted from the payment by the Company or the Paying Agent.   

IF PAYMENT IS IN EUROS, INSERT    Payment of the principal of and premium or interest on this
Security will be made in euros. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Security or the 2008
Indenture, if this Security is a Global Security, any payment in respect of this Security may be
made pursuant to the Applicable Procedures of the Depositary as permitted in the 2008 Indenture.

Subject to the prior paragraph and except as provided in the next    two    three    paragraphs,
payment of any amount payable on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company
maintained for that purpose in The City of New York (and at any other office or agency maintained
by the Company for that purpose), against surrender of this Security in the case of any payment due
at the Maturity of the principal hereof (other than any payment of interest that first becomes due
on an Interest Payment Date); provided, however, that, at the option of the Company and subject to
the next paragraph, payment of

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-6- 

interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such
address shall appear in the Security Register.

Subject to the second preceding paragraph, payment of any amount payable on this Security will
be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account maintained by the payee with
a bank located in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, if (i) the principal of this
Security is at least USD$1,000,000 (or the equivalent in euros) and (ii) the Holder entitled to
receive such payment transmits a written request for such payment to be made in such manner to the
Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, on or before the
fifth Business Day before the day on which such payment is to be made; provided that, in the case
of any such payment due at the Maturity of the principal hereof (other than any payment of interest
that first becomes due on an Interest Payment Date), this Security must be surrendered at the
office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in The City of New York (or at any
other office or agency maintained by the Company for that purpose) in time for the Paying Agent to
make such payment in such funds in accordance with its normal procedures. Any such request made
with respect to any payment on this Security payable to a particular Holder will remain in effect
for all later payments on this Security payable to such Holder, unless such request is revoked on
or before the fifth Business Day before a payment is to be made, in which case such revocation
shall be effective for such payment and all later payments. In the case of any payment of interest
payable on an Interest Payment Date, such written request must be made by the Person who is the
registered Holder of this Security on the relevant Regular Record Date. The Company will pay any
administrative costs imposed by banks in connection with making payments by wire transfer with
respect to this Security, but any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed upon any
payment will be borne by the Holder of this Security and may be deducted from the payment by the
Company or the Paying Agent.   

IF LISTED ON LUXEMBOURG STOCK EXCHANGE, INSERT    So long as the Securities of this series
are listed on the Official List of the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and such Stock Exchange shall so
require, the Company will at all times maintain an office or agency in Luxembourg for the payment
of the principal of and interest on the Securities of this series. Such Paying Agent in Luxembourg
shall initially be Dexia Banque Internationale   Luxembourg soci t  anonyme.   

Payments Due on a Business Day  

IF LIBOR, INSERT    Notwithstanding any provision of this Security or the 2008 Indenture, if
the Maturity of the principal hereof occurs on a day that is not a Business Day, any amount of
principal, premium or interest that would otherwise be due on this Security on a day (the
  Specified Day  ) that is not a Business Day may be paid or made available for payment on
the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if such amount were paid on the
Specified Day. For all purposes of this Security,   Business Day   means any day that is not
a Saturday or Sunday, and that is not a day on which banking institutions generally are authorized
or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in The City of New York and that is
also a London Business Day;  provided  that, solely with respect to any payment to be made at
any Place of Payment outside The City of New York or London, Business Day means any day that is a
 Business Day  as defined above and that also is not a day on which banking institutions generally
are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in such Place of
Payment;  provided   further  that, with respect to Section 12 of the reverse hereof
and Exhibit B hereto, the definition of  Business Day  therein shall apply. The provisions of this
paragraph shall apply to this Security in lieu of the provisions of Section 1.13 of the 2008
Indenture.   

IF EURIBOR, INSERT    Notwithstanding any provision of this Security or the 2008 Indenture,
if the Maturity of the principal hereof occurs on a day that is not a Business Day, any amount of
principal, premium or interest that would otherwise be due on this Security on a day (the
 Specified Day ) that is not a Business Day may be paid or made available for payment on the next
succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if such amount were paid on the Specified
Day. For all purposes of this Security,  Business Day  means any day that is not a Saturday or
Sunday, and that is not a day on which banking institutions are generally authorized or obligated
by law, regulation or executive order to close in

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-7- 

The City of New York or London, and that is also a Euro Business Day, as defined below;
 provided  that, with respect to Section 12 of the reverse hereof and Exhibit B hereto, the
definition of  Business Day  therein shall apply. The term  Euro Business Day  means any day on
which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System, or
any successor system, is open for business. The provisions of this paragraph shall apply to this
Security in lieu of the provisions of Section 1.13 of the 2008 Indenture.   

IF PAYMENT IS IN EUROS, INSERT   Payments Made in U.S. Dollars  

Notwithstanding any provision of this Security or the 2008 Indenture, if any amount payable on
this Security is payable on any day and if euros are not available to the Company on the two
Business Days before such day, due to the imposition of exchange controls, disruption in a currency
market or any other circumstances beyond the control of the Company, the Company will be entitled
to satisfy its obligation to pay such amount in euros by making such payment in U.S. dollars. The
amount of such payment in U.S. dollars shall be determined by the Exchange Rate Agent on the basis
of the noon buying rate for cable transfers in The City of New York for euros (the  Exchange Rate )
as of the latest day before the day on which such payment is to be made. Any payment made under
such circumstances in U.S. dollars where the required payment is in euros will not constitute an
Event of Default under this Security or the 2008 Indenture.

Exchange Rate Agent  

As
used herein, the  Exchange Rate Agent  shall initially mean
[                                  
provided that the Company may, in its sole discretion, appoint any other institution (including any
affiliate of the Company) to serve as any such agent from time to time. The Company will give the
Trustee prompt written notice of any change in any such appointment. Insofar as this Security
provides for any such agent to obtain rates, quotes or other data from a bank, dealer or other
institution for use in making any determination hereunder, such agent may do so from any
institution or institutions of the kind contemplated hereby notwithstanding that any one or more of
such institutions are any such agent, affiliates of any such agent or affiliates of the Company.

All determinations made by the Exchange Rate Agent pursuant to the terms of this Security
shall be, absent manifest error, conclusive for all purposes and binding on the Holder of this
Security and the Company. The Exchange Rate Agent shall not have any liability therefor.   

Calculation Agent  

As used herein, the  Calculation Agent  shall initially mean The Bank of New York Mellon;
provided that the Company may, in its sole discretion, appoint any other institution (including any
affiliate of the Company) to serve as any such agent from time to time. The Company will give the
Trustee prompt written notice of any change in any such appointment. Insofar as this Security
provides for any such agent to obtain rates, quotes or other data from a bank, dealer or other
institution for use in making any determination hereunder, such agent may do so from any
institution or institutions of the kind contemplated hereby notwithstanding that any one or more of
such institutions are any such agent, affiliates of any such agent or affiliates of the Company.

All determinations made by the Calculation Agent may be made by such agent in its sole
discretion and, absent manifest error, shall be conclusive for all purposes and binding on the
Holder of this Security and the Company. The Calculation Agent shall not have any liability
therefor.

Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse
hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at
this place.

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-8- 

Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to
on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under
the 2008 Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-9- 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.

Dated:                       

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 

By   

Name:   

Title:   

This is one of the Securities of the series designated herein and referred to in the 2008
Indenture.

Dated:                       

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON, as Trustee 

By   

Authorized Signatory  

(Reverse of Security)

1.   Securities and Indenture.  

This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called
the   Securities  ) issued and to be issued in one or more series under a Senior Debt
Indenture, dated as of July 16, 2008 (herein called the   2008 Indenture  , which term shall
have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and The Bank of New York
Mellon, as Trustee (herein called the   Trustee  , which term includes any successor trustee
under the 2008 Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the 2008 Indenture for a statement of
the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the
Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are
to be, authenticated and delivered.

2.   Series and Denominations.  

This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited to an aggregate
principal amount as shall be determined and may be increased from time to time by the Company. Any
election by the Company so to increase such aggregate principal amount shall be evidenced by a
certificate of an Authorized Person (as defined in the Determination of an Authorized Person, dated
   , with respect to this series). References herein to   this series   mean the series of
Securities designated on the face hereof. The Securities of this series are issuable only in
registered form without coupons in denominations of integral multiples of    , subject to a minimum
denomination of $   .

3.   IF APPLICABLE, INSERT   -Additional Amounts.  

If the beneficial owner of this Security is a United States Alien (as defined below), the
Company will pay all additional amounts that may be necessary so that every net payment of the
principal of and interest on this Security to such beneficial owner, after deduction or withholding
for or on account of any present or future tax, assessment or governmental charge imposed with
respect to such payment by any U.S. Taxing Authority (as defined below), will not be less than the
amount provided for in this Security to be then due and payable;  provided ,  however ,
that the Company shall have no obligation to pay additional amounts for or on account of any one or
more of the following:

(i) any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed solely because at any time
there is or was a connection between such beneficial owner (or between a fiduciary,
settlor, beneficiary or member of such beneficial owner, if such beneficial owner is an
estate, trust or partnership) and the United States (as defined below) (other than the mere
receipt of a payment on, or the ownership or holding of, a Security), including because
such beneficial owner (or such fiduciary, settlor, beneficiary or member) at any time, for
U.S. federal income tax purposes: (a) is or was a citizen or resident, or is or was treated
as a resident, of the United States, (b) is or was present in the United States, (c) is or
was engaged in a trade or business in the United States, (d) has or had a permanent
establishment in the United States, (e) is or was a domestic or foreign personal holding
company, a passive foreign investment company or a controlled foreign corporation, (f) is
or was a corporation that accumulates earnings to avoid U.S. federal income tax or (g) is
or was a  10-percent shareholder  of the Company as defined in section 871(h)(3) of the
U.S. Internal Revenue Code or any successor provision;

(ii) any tax, assessment or governmental charge imposed solely because of a change in
applicable law or regulation, or in any official interpretation or application of
applicable law or regulation, that becomes effective more than 15 days after the day on
which the payment becomes due or is made available, whichever occurs later;

(iii) any estate, inheritance, gift, sales, excise, transfer, wealth or personal property
tax or any similar tax, assessment or other governmental charge;

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-10- 

(iv) any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed solely because such
beneficial owner or any other Person fails to comply with any certification, identification
or other reporting requirement concerning the nationality, residence, identity or
connection with the United States of the Holder or any beneficial owner of this Security,
if compliance is required by statute, by regulation of the U.S. Treasury Department or by
an applicable income tax treaty to which the United States is a party, as a precondition to
exemption from such tax, assessment or other governmental charge;

(v) any tax, assessment or other governmental charge that is payable otherwise than by
deduction or withholding from payments of principal of or interest on this Security;

(vi) any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed solely because the payment is
to be made by a particular Paying Agent (which term may include the Company) and would not
be imposed if made by another Paying Agent (which term may include the Company);

(vii) by or on behalf of a Holder who would be able to avoid such withholding or deduction
by presenting this Security to another Paying Agent in a Member State of the European
Union;

(viii) any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed solely because the Holder
(1) is a bank purchasing this Security in the ordinary course of its lending business or
(2) is a bank that is neither (A) buying this Security for investment purposes only nor (B)
buying this Security for resale to a third party that either is not a bank or holding the
note for investment purposes only; or

(ix) any combination of the taxes, assessments or other governmental charges described in
items (i) through (viii) of this Section 3.

Additional amounts also will not be paid with respect to any payment of principal of or
interest on this Security to any United States Alien who is a fiduciary or a partnership, or who is
not the sole beneficial owner of any such payment, to the extent that the Company would not be
required to pay additional amounts to any beneficiary or settlor of such fiduciary or any member of
such a partnership, or to any beneficial owner of the payment, if that Person had been treated as
the beneficial owner of this Security for this purpose.

The term   United States Alien   means any Person who, for U.S. federal income tax
purposes, is a nonresident alien individual, a foreign corporation, a foreign partnership one or
more of the members of which is, for United States federal income tax purposes, a foreign
corporation, a nonresident alien individual or a nonresident alien fiduciary of a foreign estate or
trust, or a nonresident alien fiduciary of an estate or trust that is not subject to U.S. federal
income tax on a net income basis on income or gain from this Security. For the purposes of this
Section 3 and Section 4 only, (a) the term   United States   means the United States of
America (including the states thereof and the District of Columbia), together with the territories,
possessions and all other areas subject to the jurisdiction of the United States of America and (b)
the term   U.S. Taxing Authority   means the United States of America or any state, other
jurisdiction or taxing authority in the United States.

Except as specifically provided in this Security, the Company shall not be required to make
any payment with respect to any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed by any
government or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein.

Whenever in the Securities of this series (or in the 2008 Indenture, including in Sections
5.01(1) and 501(2) thereof, insofar as applicable to this series) there is a reference, in any
context, to the payment of the principal of or interest on any Security of this series, such
mention shall be deemed to include mention of any payment of additional amounts to United States
Aliens in respect of such payment of principal or interest to the extent that, in such context,
such additional amounts are, were or would be payable in respect thereof pursuant to this Section 3
or any corresponding section of another Security of

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-11- 

this series, as the case may be. Express mention of the payment of additional amounts in any
provision of any Security of this series shall not be construed as excluding additional amounts in
the provisions of any Security of this series (or of the 2008 Indenture insofar as it applies to
this series) where such express mention is not made.   

4.   Redemption.  

The Securities of this series may be redeemed, as a whole but not in part, at the option of
the Company, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be
redeemed, together with interest accrued to the date fixed for redemption, if, as a result of any
amendment to, or change in, the laws or regulations of any U.S. Taxing Authority (as defined in
Section 3 above), or any amendment to or change in any official interpretation or application of
such laws or regulations, which amendment or change becomes effective or is announced on or after
   , the Company will become obligated to pay, on the next Interest Payment Date, additional
amounts in respect of any Security of this series pursuant to Section 3 of this Security or any
corresponding section of another Security of this series. If the Company becomes entitled to redeem
the Securities of this series, it may do so on any day thereafter pursuant to the 2008 Indenture;
 provided ,  however , that (1) the Company gives the Holder of this Security notice of
such redemption not more than 60 days nor less than 30 days prior to the date fixed for redemption
as provided in the 2008 Indenture, (2) no such notice of redemption may be given earlier than 90
days prior to the next Interest Payment Date on which the Company would be obligated to pay such
additional amounts and (3) at the time such notice is given, such obligation to pay such additional
amounts remains in effect. Immediately prior to the giving of any notice of redemption of
Securities pursuant to this Section 4, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers 
Certificate stating that the Company is entitled to effect such redemption and setting forth in
reasonable detail a statement of facts showing that the conditions precedent to the right of the
Company to so redeem the Securities have occurred. Interest installments due on or prior to a
Redemption Date will be payable to the Holder of this Security or one or more Predecessor
Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant record date, all as provided in the
2008 Indenture.

5.   Defeasance.  

The 2008 Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness
of this Security or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this
Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the 2008 Indenture.

6.   Modification and Waiver.  

The 2008 Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof
and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company, and the rights of the Holders of
the Securities to be affected, under the 2008 Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee
with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of all Securities at the time
Outstanding to be affected, considered together as one class for this purpose (such affected
Securities may be Securities of the same or different series and, with respect to any series, may
comprise fewer than all the Securities of such series). The 2008 Indenture also contains provisions
(i) permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time
Outstanding to be affected, considered together as one class for this purpose (such affected
Securities may be Securities of the same or different series and, with respect to any particular
series, may comprise fewer than all the Securities of such series), on behalf of the Holders of all
such affected Securities, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the 2008
Indenture and (ii) permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at
the time Outstanding of any series to be affected (with each such series considered separately for
this purpose), on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive certain past
defaults under the 2008 Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder
of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of
this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange
herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this
Security.

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-12- 

7.   Remedies.  

Sections 5.01 and 5.02 of the 2008 Indenture are hereby amended with respect to the Securities
of this series to the extent necessary to comply with Section 5.01 and Annex A of the Master
Agreement, dated November 25, 2008, as the same may be amended from time to time (the  Master
Agreement ), by and between the Company and the FDIC, attached hereto as Exhibit A. Subject to the
immediately preceding sentence and Section 14 of the reverse of this Security, if an Event of
Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of
the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect
provided in the 2008 Indenture.

As provided in and subject to the provisions of the 2008 Indenture and subject to Section 14
of the reverse of this Security, the Holder of this Security shall not have the right to institute
any proceeding with respect to the 2008 Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee,
or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee
written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the
Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Securities of this series at the time
Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of
such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it,
and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of
Securities of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and
shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice,
request and offer of indemnity.

The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this Security for the
enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the
respective due dates expressed herein.

If so provided pursuant to the terms of any specific Securities, the above-referenced
provisions of the 2008 Indenture regarding the ability of Holders to waive certain defaults, or to
request the Trustee to institute proceedings (or to give the Trustee other directions) in respect
thereof, may be applied differently with regard to such Securities.

No reference herein to the 2008 Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the 2008
Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional,
to pay the principal of and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin
or currency, herein prescribed.

8.   Transfer and Exchange.  

As provided in the 2008 Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the
transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security
for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the
principal of and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a
written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly
executed by, the Holder hereof or his or her attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one
or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the
same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.

As provided in the 2008 Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth,
Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of
this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder
surrendering the same.

No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the
Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge
payable in connection therewith.

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-13- 

Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the
Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this
Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be
overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the
contrary.

This Security is a Global Security and is subject to the provisions of the 2008 Indenture
relating to Global Securities, including the limitations in Section 3.05 thereof on transfers and
exchanges of Global Securities (subject to Section 10 of the reverse of this Security).

9.   Subrogation.  

The FDIC shall be subrogated to all of the rights of the Holder and the Representative under
this Security and the 2008 Indenture against the Company in respect of any amounts paid to the
Holder, or for the benefit of the Holder, by the FDIC pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program.

10.   Agreement to Execute Assignment upon Guarantee Payment.  

The Holder hereby authorizes the Representative, at such time as the FDIC shall commence
making any guarantee payments to the Representative for the benefit of the Holder pursuant to the
Debt Guarantee Program, to execute an assignment in the form attached to this Security as Exhibit B
pursuant to which the Representative shall assign to the FDIC its right as Representative to
receive any and all payments from the Company under this Security on behalf of the Holder. The
Company hereby consents and agrees that the FDIC is an acceptable transferee for all or any portion
of the indebtedness hereunder for all purposes of this Security and upon any such assignment, the
FDIC shall be deemed the Holder of this Security for all purposes hereof, and the Company hereby
agrees to take such reasonable steps as are necessary to comply with any relevant provision of this
Security and the 2008 Indenture as a result of such assignment.

Section 3.05 of the 2008 Indenture is hereby amended with respect to the Securities of this
series to the extent necessary to permit the Holder, the Representative and the Company to comply
with this Section 10, Section 11 below or any other similar provision of this Security.

11.   Surrender of Senior Unsecured Debt Instrument to the FDIC.  

If, at any time on or prior to the expiration of the period during which senior unsecured debt
of the Company is guaranteed by the FDIC under the Debt Guarantee Program (the  Effective Period ),
payment in full hereunder shall be made pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program on the outstanding
principal and accrued interest to such date of payment, the Holder shall, or the Holder shall cause
the person or entity in possession to, promptly surrender to the FDIC this Security.

12.   Notice Obligations to FDIC of Payment Default.  

If, at any time prior to the earlier of (a) full satisfaction of the payment obligations
hereunder, or (b) expiration of the Effective Period, the Company is in default of any payment
obligation hereunder, including timely payment of any accrued and unpaid interest, without regard
to any cure period, the Representative covenants and agrees that it shall provide written notice to
the FDIC within one (1) Business Day of such payment default. Solely for the purpose of this
Section 12,  Business Day  means any day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banks
are required or authorized by law to be closed in the State of New York.

13.   Ranking.  

Any indebtedness of the Company to the FDIC arising under Section 2.03 of the Master Agreement
will constitute a senior unsecured general obligation of the Company, ranking pari passu with any
indebtedness hereunder.

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-14- 

14.   No Event of Default during Time of Timely FDIC Guarantee Payments.  

There shall not be deemed to be an Event of Default under this Security or the 2008 Indenture
which would permit or result in the acceleration of amounts due hereunder, if such an Event of
Default is due solely to the failure of the Company to make timely payment hereunder, provided that
the FDIC is making timely guarantee payments with respect to this Security in accordance with 12
C.F.R Part 370.

The following provisions of this paragraph shall apply to this Security in addition to, and
without limiting, the foregoing provisions of this Section 14. No event that would otherwise
constitute an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series shall constitute an
Event of Default with respect to this Security, provided that, if any amounts of principal or
interest are due in respect of this Security and have not been paid (or made available for
payment), the FDIC is making timely guarantee payments of such amounts in accordance with 12 C.F.R
Part 370. As a result, upon the occurrence of any such event (including any event of the kind
specified in said Section 5.01), neither the Trustee nor the Holder of this Security shall be
entitled, with respect to this Security, to seek any remedies otherwise available, or to take any
other action otherwise provided for, under the 2008 Indenture upon an Event of Default (including
any right to accelerate the Maturity of the principal of this Security pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the 2008 Indenture, any right to exchange (at the Holder s option) this Security for a Security
that is not a Global Security pursuant to Section 3.05 thereof and any right to institute a
proceeding pursuant to Section 5.07 thereof), provided that, if any amounts of principal or
interest are due in respect of this Security and have not been paid (or made available for
payment), the FDIC is making timely guarantee payments of such amounts in accordance with 12 C.F.R
Part 370. Without limiting the foregoing, no event, including any event of the kind specified in
Section 5.01(5) or 5.01(6) of the 2008 Indenture, shall result in the automatic acceleration of the
Maturity of the principal of this Security pursuant to Section 5.02 thereof. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, however, the rights of the Holder of this Security pursuant to Section 5.08 of the 2008
Indenture shall not be affected by this Section 14. With regard to this Security, the provisions
of Article Five of the 2008 Indenture shall be subject to, and shall be deemed modified as
necessary to be consistent with, the provisions of this Section 14.

15.   No Modifications without FDIC Consent.  

Without the express written consent of the FDIC, the Company and the Trustee agree not to
amend, modify, supplement or waive any provision in this Security or the 2008 Indenture that is
related to the principal, interest, payment, default or ranking of the indebtedness hereunder or
that is required to be included herein pursuant to the Master Agreement.

16.   Demand Obligations to FDIC upon the Company s Failure to Pay.  

On the 30th day after the date the Company defaults in payment of interest on this Security,
which default has not been cured by the Company by such 30th day, in the case of default in
interest, or at the Maturity, in the case of default in principal of this Security, the
Representative shall make a demand on behalf of the Holder to the FDIC for payment on the
guaranteed amount under the Debt Guarantee Program. Such demand shall be accompanied by a proof of
claim, which shall include evidence, to the extent not previously provided in the Master Agreement,
in form and content satisfactory to the FDIC, of: (A) the Representative s financial and
organizational capacity to act as Representative; (B) the Representative s exclusive authority to
act on behalf of the Holder and its fiduciary responsibility to the Holder when acting as such, as
established by the terms of this Security and the 2008 Indenture; (C) the occurrence of a payment
default; and (D) the authority to make an assignment of the Holder s right, title, and interest in
this Security to the FDIC and to effect the transfer to the FDIC of the Holder s claim in any
insolvency proceeding. Such assignment shall include the right of the FDIC to receive any and all
distributions on this Security from the proceeds of the receivership or bankruptcy estate. Any
demand under this Section 16 shall be made in writing and directed to the Director, Division of
Resolution and Receiverships, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Washington, D.C., and shall
include all supporting evidences as provided in this Section 16, and shall certify to the accuracy
thereof.

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-15- 

IF LISTED ON LUXEMBOURG STOCK EXCHANGE, INSERT   

17.   Notices.  

Notices that are required hereunder or under the 2008 Indenture to be given to Holders of the
Securities of this series shall be given to Holders of the Securities of this series as set forth
in the 2008 Indenture and in the next paragraph.

So long as the Securities of this series are listed on the Official List of the Luxembourg
Stock Exchange and such Stock Exchange shall so require, the Trustee will publish any such required
notices in a daily newspaper of general circulation in Luxembourg. If publication in Luxembourg is
not practical, the Trustee will publish any such required notices elsewhere in Europe. Published
notices will be deemed to have been given on the date they are published. If publication as
described in this paragraph becomes impossible, the Trustee may publish sufficient notice by
alternate means that approximate the terms and conditions as described in this paragraph.   

18.   Governing Law.  

This Security and the 2008 Indenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the
laws of the State of New York. 

19.   Terms Defined in the 2008 Indenture.  

All terms used in this Security which are defined in the 2008 Indenture shall have the
meanings assigned to them in the 2008 Indenture.

IF APPLICABLE, INSERT    References in this Security to euro shall mean, as of any time, the
coin or currency (if any) that is legal tender for the payment of private and public debt in all
countries then participating in the European Economic and Monetary Union (or any successor union)
pursuant to the Treaty on European Union of February 1992 (or any successor treaty), as it may be
amended from time to time.   

-16- 

ASSIGNMENT  

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto                                                         

PLEASE
INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE                                                            

(Please Print or Typewrite Name and Address Including Postal Zip Code of Assignee)

the attached Security and all rights thereunder, and hereby irrevocably
constitutes and appoints                                                           

to transfer said Security on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the
premises.

Dated:                       

Signature Guaranteed

NOTICE: Signature must be guaranteed.

NOTICE: The signature to this
assignment must correspond with the
name of the Holder as written upon
the face of the attached Security in
every particular, without alteration
or any change whatever. 

EXHIBIT A

MASTER AGREEMENT 

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  

Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program   Debt Guarantee Program  

TLGP Master Agreement 11/24/08 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

TLGP Master Agreement 11/24/08 

MASTER AGREEMENT 

THIS MASTER AGREEMENT  (this   Master Agreement  ) is being entered into as of the date
set forth on the signature page hereto by and between THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION ,  a
corporation organized under the laws of the United States of America and having its principal
office in Washington, D.C. (the   FDIC  ), and the entity whose name appears on the signature
page hereto (the   Issuer  ).

RECITALS   

WHEREAS , on November 21, 2008, the FDIC issued its Final Rule, 12 C.F.R. Part 370 (as may be
amended from time to time, the   Rule  ), establishing the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee
Program (the   Program   and

WHEREAS , pursuant to the Rule, the FDIC will guarantee the payment of certain newly-issued
 senior unsecured debt  (as defined in the Rule,
hereinafter   Senior Unsecured
Debt  ) issued by an  eligible entity  (as defined in the Rule); and

WHEREAS , the Issuer is an eligible entity for purposes of the Rule and has elected to
participate in the debt guarantee component of the Program.

ARTICLE I 
DEFINITIONS 

1.01.    Certain Defined Terms   .  As used in this Master Agreement, the following terms
shall have the following meanings:

Business Day   means any day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banks
are required or authorized by law to be closed in the State of New York.

FDIC   has the meaning ascribed to such term in the introductory paragraph to this
Master Agreement.

FDIC Guarantee   means the guarantee of payment by the FDIC of the Senior Unsecured
Debt of the Issuer in accordance with the terms of the Program.

Guarantee Payment   means any payment made by the FDIC under the Program with respect
to Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer.

Guarantee Payment Notice   has the meaning ascribed to such term in  Section
2.02 .

Issuer   has the meaning ascribed to such term in the introductory paragraph to this
Master Agreement.

Issuer Make-Whole Payments   has the meaning ascribed to such term in
 Section 2.03 .

Issuer Reports   means reports, registrations, documents, filings, statements and
submissions, together with any amendments thereto, that the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer
is required to file with any governmental entity.

Master Agreement   means this Master Agreement, together with all Annexes and
amendments hereto.

Material Adverse Effect   means a material adverse effect on the business, results of
operations or financial condition of the Issuer and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole.

Program   has the meaning ascribed to such term in the Recitals.

Reimbursement Payment   has the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 2.03.

Relevant Provision   means any provision that is related to the principal, interest,
payment, default or ranking of the Senior Unsecured Debt, any provision contained in Annex A or any
other provision the amendment of which would require the consent of any or all of the holders of
such debt.

Representative   means the trustee, administrative agent, paying agent or other
fiduciary or agent designated as the  Representative  under the governing documents for any Senior
Unsecured Debt of the Issuer subject to the FDIC Guarantee for purposes of submitting claims or
taking other actions under the Program.

Rule   has the meaning ascribed to such term in the Recitals.

Senior Unsecured Debt   has the meaning ascribed to such term in the Recitals.

1.02.    Terms Generally   .  Words in the singular shall be held to include the plural and
vice versa and words of one gender shall be held to include the other gender as the context
requires, the terms  hereof ,  herein  and  herewith  and words of similar import shall, unless
otherwise stated, be construed to refer to this Master Agreement and not to any particular
provision of this Master Agreement, and Article, Section and paragraph references are to the
Articles, Sections and paragraphs of this Master Agreement unless otherwise specified, and the word
 including  and words of similar import when used in this Master Agreement shall mean  including,
without limitation , unless otherwise specified.

ARTICLE II 
SENIOR DEBT GUARANTEE 

2.01.    Acknowledgement of Guarantee  . The FDIC hereby acknowledges that the Issuer has
elected to participate in the debt guarantee component of the Program and that, as a result, the
Issuer s Senior Unsecured Debt is guaranteed by the FDIC to the extent set forth in, and subject to
the provisions of, the Rule, and subject to the terms hereof.

2.02.    Guarantee Payments  . The Issuer understands and acknowledges that any Guarantee
Payment with respect to a particular issue of Senior Unsecured Debt shall be paid by the FDIC
directly to:

(a) the Representative with respect to such Senior Unsecured Debt if a Representative has been
designated; or

(b) the registered holder(s) of such Senior Unsecured Debt if no Representative has been
designated; or

(c) any registered holder of such Senior Unsecured Debt who has opted out of being represented
by the designated Representative;

in each case, pursuant to the claims procedure set forth in the Rule. In no event shall the FDIC
make any Guarantee Payment to the Issuer directly. The FDIC will provide prompt written notice to
the Issuer of any Guarantee Payment made by the FDIC with respect to any of the Issuer s Senior
Unsecured Debt (the   Guarantee Payment Notice  ).

2.03.    Issuer Make-Whole Payments  . In consideration of the FDIC providing the FDIC
Guarantee with respect to the Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer, the Issuer hereby irrevocably
and unconditionally covenants and agrees:

(a) to reimburse the FDIC immediately upon receipt of the Guarantee Payment Notice for all
Guarantee Payments set forth in the Guarantee Payment Notice (the   Reimbursement Payment  )
(without duplication of any amounts actually received by the FDIC as subrogee or assignee under the
governing documents of the relevant Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer);

(b) beginning as of the date of the Issuer s receipt of the Guarantee Payment Notice, to pay
interest on any unpaid Reimbursement Payments until such Reimbursement Payments shall have been
paid in full by the Issuer, at an interest rate equal to one percent (1%) per annum above the
non-default interest rate payable on the Senior Unsecured Debt with respect to which the relevant
Guarantee Payments were made, as calculated in accordance with the documents governing such Senior
Unsecured Debt; and

(c) to reimburse the FDIC for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, disbursements and
advances incurred or made by it, including costs of collection or other enforcement of the Issuer s
payment obligations hereunder. Such expenses shall include the reasonable compensation and
expenses, disbursements and advances of the FDIC s agents, counsel, accountants and experts.

Clauses (a), (b) and (c) above are collectively referred to herein as the   Issuer
Make-Whole Payments  . The indebtedness of the Issuer to the FDIC arising under this
 Section 2.03  constitutes a senior unsecured general obligation of the Issuer, ranking  pari
passu  with other senior unsecured indebtedness of the Issuer, including without limitation Senior Unsecured Debt of
the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee.

2.04.    Waiver of Defenses  . The Issuer hereby waives any defenses it might otherwise
have to its payment obligations under any of the Issuer s Senior Unsecured Debt or under
 Section 2.03  hereof, in each case beginning at such time as the FDIC has made any Guarantee

Payment with respect to such Senior Unsecured Debt and continuing until such time as all Issuer
Make-Whole Payments have been received by the FDIC.

ARTICLE III 
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF THE ISSUER 

3.01.    Organization and Authority  . The Issuer has been duly organized and is validly
existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, with the
necessary power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business in all material
respects as currently conducted, except as has not had, or would not reasonably be expected to
have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.

3.02.    Authorization, Enforceability  .

(a) The Issuer has the power and authority to execute and deliver this Master Agreement and to
carry out its obligations hereunder. The execution, delivery and performance by the Issuer of this
Master Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly
authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Issuer, and no further approval or
authorization is required on the part of the Issuer. This Master Agreement is a valid and binding
obligation of the Issuer enforceable against the Issuer in accordance with its terms, subject to
(i) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or other similar laws
now or hereafter in effect relating to creditors  rights generally and (ii) general principles of
equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity).

(b) The execution, delivery and performance by the Issuer of this Master Agreement and the
consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and compliance by the Issuer with the
provisions hereof, will not (i) violate, conflict with, or result in a breach of any provision of,
or constitute a default (or an event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute
a default) under, or result in the termination of, or accelerate the performance required by, or
result in a right of termination or acceleration of, or result in the creation of, any lien,
security interest, charge or encumbrance upon any of the properties or assets of the Issuer or any
subsidiary of the Issuer under, any of the terms, conditions or provisions of, as applicable, (X)
its organizational documents or (Y) any note, bond, mortgage, indenture, deed of trust, license,
lease, agreement or other instrument or obligation to which the Issuer or any subsidiary of the
Issuer may be bound, or to which the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer may be subject, or (ii)
violate any statute, rule or regulation or any judgment, ruling, order, writ, injunction or decree
applicable to the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer or any of their respective properties or
assets except, in the case of clauses (i)(Y) and (ii), for those occurrences that, individually or
in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse
Effect.

(c) No prior notice to, filing with, exemption or review by, or authorization, consent or
approval of, any governmental entity is required to be made or obtained by the Issuer in connection
with the execution of this Master Agreement, except for any such notices, filings, exemptions,
reviews, authorizations, consents and approvals which have been made or obtained

or the failure of which to make or obtain would not, individually or in the aggregate,
reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.

3.03.    Reports  . Since December 31, 2007, the Issuer and each subsidiary of the Issuer
has timely filed all Issuer Reports and has paid all fees and assessments due and payable in
connection therewith, except, in each case, as would not individually or in the aggregate have a
Material Adverse Effect. As of their respective dates of filing, the Issuer Reports complied in
all material respects with all statutes and applicable rules and regulations of all applicable
governmental entities. In the case of each such Issuer Report filed with or furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission, if any, such Issuer Report (a) did not, as of its date, or if
amended prior to the date of this Master Agreement, as of the date of such amendment, contain an
untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the
statements made therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading,
(b) complied as to form in all material respects with all applicable requirements of the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and (c) no executive
officer of the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer has failed in any respect to make the
certifications required by him or her under Section 302 or 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
With respect to all other Issuer Reports, the Issuer Reports were complete and accurate in all
material respects as of their respective dates.

ARTICLE IV 
NOTICE AND REPORTING 

4.01.    Reports of Existing and Future Guaranteed Debt   .  The Issuer shall provide
reports to the FDIC of the amount of all Senior Unsecured Debt subject to the FDIC Guarantee in
accordance with the reporting requirements of the Rule.

4.02.    On-going Reporting   .  The Issuer covenants and agrees that, for so long as it has
outstanding Senior Unsecured Debt that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee, it shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the FDIC (a) monthly reports, in such form as specified by the FDIC, containing
information relating to the Issuer s outstanding Senior Unsecured Debt that is subject to the FDIC
Guarantee and such other information as may be requested in such form, and (b) such other
information that the FDIC may reasonably request, such other information to be delivered within ten
(10) Business Days of receipt by the Issuer of any such request.

4.03.    Notice of Defaults   .  The Issuer covenants and agrees that it shall notify the
FDIC within one (1) Business Day of any default in the payment of any principal or interest when
due, without giving effect to any cure period, with respect to any indebtedness of the Issuer
(including debt that is not subject to the FDIC Guarantee), whether such debt is existing as of the
date of this Master Agreement or is issued subsequent to the date hereof, if such default would
result, or would reasonably be expected to result, in an event of default under any Senior
Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee.

ARTICLE V 
COVENANTS AND ACKNOWLEDGMENTS OF THE ISSUER 

5.01.    Terms to be included in Future Guaranteed Debt  . The governing documents for the
issuance of any Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee shall
contain each of the provisions set forth in  Annex A . If a particular issue of Senior
Unsecured Debt is evidenced solely by a trade confirmation, the Issuer shall use commercially
reasonable efforts to cause the holder of such debt to execute a written instrument setting forth
the holder s agreement to be bound by the provisions set forth in  Annex A . No document
governing the issuance of Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee
shall contain any provision that would result in the automatic acceleration of the debt upon a
default by the Issuer at any time during which the FDIC Guarantee is in effect or during which
Guarantee Payments are being made in accordance with Section 370.12(b)(2) of the Rule.

5.02.    Breaches; False or Misleading Statements  . The Issuer acknowledges and agrees
that (a) if it is in breach of any provision of this Master Agreement or (b) if it makes any false
or misleading statement or representation in connection with the Issuer s participation in the
Program, or makes any statement or representation in bad faith with the intent to influence the
actions of the FDIC, the FDIC may take the enforcement actions provided in Section 370.11 of the
Rule, including termination of the Issuer s participation in the Program. As set forth in the
Rule, any termination of the Issuer s participation in the Program would solely have prospective
effect, and would in no event affect the FDIC Guarantee with respect to Senior Unsecured Debt of
the Issuer that is issued and outstanding prior to the termination of the Issuer s participation in
the Program.

5.03.    No Modifications  . The Issuer covenants and agrees that it shall not amend,
modify, or consent to any amendment or modification, or waive any Relevant Provision, without the
express written consent of the FDIC.

5.04.    Waiver by the Issuer  . The Issuer acknowledges and agrees that if any covenant,
stipulation or other provision of this Master Agreement that imposes on the Issuer the obligation
to make any payment is at any time void under any provision of applicable law, the Issuer will not
make any claim, counterclaim or institute any proceedings against the FDIC or any of its assignees
or subrogees for any amount paid by the Issuer at any time, and the Issuer waives unconditionally
and absolutely any rights and defenses, legal or equitable, which arise under or in connection with
any such provision and which might otherwise be available to it for recovery of any amount due
under this Master Agreement.

ARTICLE
VI GENERAL
PROVISIONS 

6.01.    Amendment and Modification of this Master Agreement   .  This Master Agreement may
be amended, modified and supplemented in any and all respects, but only by a written instrument
signed by the parties hereto expressly stating that such instrument is intended to amend, modify or
supplement this Master Agreement.

6.02.    Notices   .  Unless otherwise provided herein, all notices and other
communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed given when mailed, delivered
personally, telecopied (which is confirmed) or sent by an overnight courier service, such as FedEx,
to the parties at the following addresses (or at such other address for a party as shall be
specified by such party by like notice):

if to the Issuer, to the address appearing on the signature page hereto

if to the FDIC, to:

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 

Deputy Director, Receivership Operations Branch 

Division of Resolutions and Receiverships 

Attention: Master Agreement 

550 17th Street, N.W. 

Washington, DC 20429 

6.03.    Counterparts   .  This Master Agreement may be executed in counterparts, which,
together, shall be considered one and the same agreement. Copies of executed counterparts
transmitted by telecopy or other electronic transmission service shall be considered original,
executed counterparts, provided receipt of such counterparts is confirmed.

6.04.    Severability   .  Any term or provision of this Master Agreement that is held by a
court of competent jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable in any
situation in any jurisdiction shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining
terms and provisions hereof or the validity or enforceability of the offending term or provision in
any other situation or in any other jurisdiction. If the final judgment of a court of competent
jurisdiction or other authority declares that any term or provision hereof is invalid, void or
unenforceable, the parties agree that the court making such determination shall have the power to
reduce the scope, duration or applicability of the term or provision, to delete specific words or
phrases, or to replace any invalid, void or unenforceable term or provision with a term or
provision that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to expressing the intention of the
invalid or unenforceable term or provision.

6.05.    Governing Law   .  Federal law of the United States shall control this Master
Agreement. To the extent that federal law does not supply a rule of decision, this Master
Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in accordance with, the laws of the
State of New York without giving effect to principles of conflicts of law other than Section 5-1401
of the New York General Obligations Law. Nothing in this Master Agreement will require any
unlawful action or inaction by either party.

6.06.    Venue   .  Each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that
any legal action arising under or in connection with this Master Agreement is to be instituted in
the United States District Court in and for the District of Columbia or in any United States
District Court in the jurisdiction where the Issuer s principal office is located.

6.07.    Assignment   .  Neither this Master Agreement nor any of the rights, interests or
obligations hereunder shall be assigned by any of the parties hereto (whether by operation
of law or otherwise) without the prior written consent of the other party, and any purported
assignment

without such consent shall be void. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Master Agreement shall
be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties and their
respective successors and assigns.

6.08.    Headings  . The headings and subheadings of the Table of Contents, Articles and
Sections contained in this Master Agreement, except the terms identified for definition in Article
I and elsewhere in this Master Agreement, are inserted for convenience only and shall not affect
the meaning or interpretation of this Master Agreement or any provision hereof.

6.09.    Delivery Requirement   .  The Issuer shall submit a completed, executed and dated
copy of the signature page hereto to the FDIC within five (5) business days of the date of the
Issuer s election to continue participating in the debt guarantee component of the Program in
accordance with the delivery instructions set forth on the signature page.

SIGNATURES BEGIN ON NEXT PAGE  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the Issuer and the FDIC have caused this Master Agreement to be executed
by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.

THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE 
CORPORATION  

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

NAME OF ISSUER:  

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:   

 /s/  David Viniar   

Name:   
     David Viniar  

Chief Financial Officer  

Address of Issuer:
85 Broad Street  
New York, New York 10004   
FDIC Certificate
Number:                         
  
RSSD ID or 
OTS Docket
Number:
2380443

Date:
11/25/08

Delivery Instructions   

Please deliver a completed, executed and dated copy of this Signature Page to the FDIC within
five (5) business days of the date of the Issuer s election to continue participating in the Debt
Guarantee Program. Email is the preferred method of delivery to MasterAgreement@fdic.gov, or you
may send it by an overnight courier service such as FedEx to Senior Counsel, Special Issues Unit,
E7056, Attention: Master Agreement, 3501 Fairfax Drive, Arlington, Virginia, 22226.

Annex A   

Terms to be Included in Future Issuances of FDIC Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Debt   

The following provisions shall be included in the governing documents for the issuance of
Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee, in substantially the
form presented below, unless otherwise specified. The appropriate name of the governing
document(s) shall be inserted in place of the term  Agreement  where it appears in this Annex A.

Acknowledgement of the FDIC s Debt Guarantee Program 

The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that the Issuer has not opted out of the debt
guarantee program (the   Debt Guarantee Program  ) established by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (  FDIC  ) under its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. As a
result,  this debt is guaranteed under the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program and is backed
by the full faith and credit of the United States. The details of the FDIC guarantee are provided
in the FDIC s regulations, 12 CFR Part 370, and at the FDIC s website, www.fdic.gov/tlgp. The
expiration date of the FDIC s guarantee is the earlier of the maturity date of this debt or June
30, 2012.   The italicized portion of the above provision shall be included exactly as written
above 

Representative 

The  insert name of the: trustee, administrative agent, paying agent or other fiduciary or
agent to be designated as the duly authorized representative of the debt holders  is designated
under this Agreement as the duly authorized representative of the holder s  for purposes of making
claims and taking other permitted or required actions under the Debt Guarantee Program (the
  Representative  ). Any holder may elect not to be represented by the Representative by
providing written notice of such election to the Representative.

Subrogation 

The FDIC shall be subrogated to all of the rights of the holder s  and the Representative, if
there shall be one, under this Agreement against the Issuer in respect of any amounts paid to the
holder s , or for the benefit of the holder s , by the FDIC pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program.

Agreement to Execute Assignment upon Guarantee Payment 

If there is a Representative, insert the following: 

The holder s  hereby authorize the Representative, at such time as the FDIC shall commence
making any guarantee payments to the Representative for the benefit of the holder s  pursuant to
the Debt Guarantee Program, to execute an assignment in the form attached to this Agreement as
Exhibit            See  Annex B to Master Agreement   pursuant to which the Representative shall
assign to the FDIC its right as Representative to receive any and all payments from the Issuer
under this Agreement on behalf of the holder s . The Issuer hereby consents and agrees that the
FDIC is an acceptable transferee for all or any portion of the indebtedness hereunder for all
purposes of this Agreement and upon any such assignment, the

TLGP M aster  A greement  11/24/08

FDIC shall be deemed a holder under this Agreement for all purposes hereof, and the Issuer hereby
agrees to take such reasonable steps as are necessary to comply with any relevant provision of this
Agreement as a result of such assignment.

or, if (i) there is no Representative or (ii) the holder has exercised its right not to be
represented by the Representative, insert the following: 

The holder s  hereby agree that, at such time as the FDIC shall commence making any guarantee
payments to the holder s  pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program, the holder s  shall execute an
assignment in the form attached to this Agreement as Exhibit            See  Annex B to Master
Agreement   pursuant to which the holder s  shall assign to the FDIC  its/their  right to receive
any and all payments from the Issuer under this Agreement. The Issuer hereby consents and agrees
that the FDIC is an acceptable transferee for all or any portion of the indebtedness hereunder for
all purposes of this Agreement and upon any such assignment, the FDIC shall be deemed a holder
under this Agreement for all purposes thereof, and the Issuer hereby agrees to take such reasonable
steps as are necessary to comply with any relevant provision of this Agreement as a result of such
assignment.

Surrender of Senior Unsecured Debt Instrument to the FDIC 

If, at any time on or prior to the expiration of the period during which senior unsecured debt
of the Issuer is guaranteed by the FDIC under the Debt Guarantee Program (the  Effective Period ), payment in full hereunder shall be made
pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program on the outstanding principal and accrued interest to such
date of payment, the holder shall, or the holder shall cause the person or entity in possession to,
promptly surrender to the FDIC the security certificate, note or other instrument evidencing such
debt, if any.

Notice Obligations to FDIC of Payment Default  

If, at any time prior to the earlier of (a) full satisfaction of the payment obligations
hereunder, or (b) expiration of the Effective Period, the Issuer is in default of any payment
obligation hereunder, including timely payment of any accrued and unpaid interest, without regard
to any cure period, the Representative covenants and agrees that it shall provide written notice to
the FDIC within one (1) Business Day of such payment default.

Ranking  

Any indebtedness of the Issuer to the FDIC arising under Section 2.03 of the Master Agreement
entered into by the Issuer and the FDIC in connection with the Debt Guarantee Program will
constitute a senior unsecured general obligation of the Issuer, ranking  pari passu  with any indebtedness hereunder.

No Event of Default during Time of Timely FDIC Guarantee Payments  

There shall not be deemed to be an event of default under this Agreement which would permit or
result in the acceleration of amounts due hereunder, if such an event of default is due solely to
the failure of the Issuer to make timely payment hereunder, provided that the FDIC is

TLGP M aster  A greement  11/24/08

A-2 

making timely guarantee payments with respect to the debt obligations hereunder in accordance with
12 C.F.R Part 370.

No Modifications without FDIC Consent 

Without the express written consent of the FDIC, the parties hereto agree not to amend,
modify, supplement or waive any provision in this Agreement that is related to the principal,
interest, payment, default or ranking of the indebtedness hereunder or that is required to be
included herein pursuant to the Master Agreement executed by the Issuer in connection with the Debt
Guarantee Program.

TLGP M aster  A greement  11/24/08

A-3 

EXHIBIT B

ASSIGNMENT 

This Assignment is made pursuant to the terms of Section 10 of the reverse of The Goldman
Sachs Group, Inc. s                        Notes due                       , CUSIP No.                        (the  Security ), between The
Bank of New York Mellon (the  Representative ), acting on behalf of the Holder of the Security who
have not opted out of representation by the Representative, and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (the
 Company ) with respect to the debt obligations of the Company that are guaranteed under the Debt
Guarantee Program. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the
meanings assigned thereto in the Security. Solely for the purpose of this Assignment,  Business
Day  means any day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banks are required or
authorized by law to be closed in the State of New York.

For value received, the Representative, on behalf of the Holder (the  Assignor ), hereby
assigns to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the  FDIC ), without recourse, all of the
Assignor s respective rights, title and interest in and to: (a) the Security; (b) the Senior Debt
Indenture, dated July 16, 2008 (the  2008 Indenture ), by and between the Company and the
Representative, with respect to the Security; and (c) any other instrument or agreement executed by
the Company regarding obligations of the Company under the Security or the 2008 Indenture with
respect to the Security (collectively, the  Assignment ).

The Assignor hereby certifies that:

1. Without the FDIC s prior written consent, the Assignor has not:

(a) agreed to any material amendment of the Security or to any material deviation from the
provisions thereof; or

(b) accelerated the maturity of the Security.

Instructions to the Assignor:  If the Assignor has not assigned or transferred any interest in
the Security and related documentation, such Assignor must include the following representation.   

2. The Assignor has not assigned or otherwise transferred any interest in the Security;

Instructions to the Assignor:  If the Assignor has assigned a partial interest in the Security
and related documentation, the Assignor must include the following representation.   

2. The Assignor has assigned part of its rights, title and interest in the Security to
                       pursuant to the                        agreement, dated as of                       , 20   , between
                      , as assignor, and                       , as assignee, an executed copy of which is attached
hereto.

The Assignor acknowledges and agrees that this Assignment is subject to the Security and the
2008 Indenture and to the following:

1. In the event the Assignor receives any payment under or related to the Security from a
party other than the FDIC (a  Non-FDIC Payment ):

(a) after the date of demand for a guarantee payment on the FDIC pursuant to 12 CFR Part 370,
but prior to the date of the FDIC s first guarantee payment under the Security pursuant to 12 CFR
Part 370, the Assignor shall promptly but in no event later than five (5) Business Days after
receipt notify the FDIC of the date and the amount of such Non-FDIC Payment and shall apply such
payment as payment made by the Company, and not as a guarantee payment made by the FDIC, and
therefore, the amount of such payment shall be excluded from this Assignment; and

B-1 

(b) after the FDIC s first guarantee payment under the Security, the Assignor shall forward
promptly to the FDIC such Non-FDIC Payment in accordance with the payment instructions provided in
writing by the FDIC.

2. Acceptance by the Assignor of payment pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program on behalf of
the Holder shall constitute a release by the Holder of any liability of the FDIC under the Debt
Guarantee Program with respect to such payment.

The Person who is executing this Assignment on behalf of the Assignor hereby represents and
warrants to the FDIC that he/she/it is duly authorized to do so.

B-2 

******

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Assignor has caused this instrument to be executed and delivered this
   day of                       , 20_.

Very truly yours, 

ASSIGNOR  

By: 

(Signature) 

Name: 

(Print) 

Title: 

(Print) 

Consented to and acknowledged by this    day of    , 20   :

THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION

By:

(Signature)

Name:

(Print) 

Title:

(Print) 

B-3 

</EX-4.5>

<EX-4.6>
 4
 y74032exv4w6.htm
 EX-4.6: FORM OF FIXED RATE SENIOR DEBT SECURITY (TLGP)

EX-4.6 

\ 

Exhibit 4.6 

FORM OF FIXED RATE SENIOR DEBT SECURITY  

Registered No.  

CUSIP No. 
ISIN No.  

(Face of Security) 

IF A GLOBAL SECURITY, INSERT   THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE
2008 INDENTURE AS DEFINED ON THE REVERSE OF THIS SECURITY AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A
DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A
SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE
NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED
CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE 2008 INDENTURE AND THIS SECURITY.  

IF DTC IS THE DEPOSITARY, INSERT   UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ( DTC ), TO THE GOLDMAN
SACHS GROUP, INC. OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY
CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE   CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY
AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE   CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY
AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF
FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF,
CEDE   CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.  

INSERT ANY LEGEND REQUIRED BY THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE AND THE REGULATIONS THEREUNDER.  

INSERT ANY LEGEND REQUIRED BY THE EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT AND THE REGULATIONS
THEREUNDER.  

THIS SECURITY IS GUARANTEED BY THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION, AND THE RIGHTS OF
THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN RIGHTS OF THE FDIC, AS AND TO THE EXTENT
INDICATED IN THIS SECURITY, INCLUDING SECTIONS 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 AND 16 ON THE REVERSE
HEREOF. 

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-1- 

Title of Series:                        
Title of Securities:                      

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 

TITLE OF SECURITY  

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the
State of Delaware (hereinafter called the  Company , which term includes any successor Person under
the 2008 Indenture (as defined on the reverse of this Security)), for value received, hereby
promises to pay to     , or registered assigns, the principal sum of     on                         
and to pay interest thereon, from or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which
interest has been paid or made available for payment, on     in each year, commencing on    
          and at the Maturity of the principal hereof, at the rate of     % per annum,
until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. Any such installment of interest that is overdue shall also bear interest at the rate of    % per annum (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), from the date any such overdue amount first becomes due until it is paid
or made available for payment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, interest on any installment of interest that is overdue shall be payable on demand.

The interest so payable, and punctually paid or made available for payment, on any Interest
Payment Date will, as provided in the 2008 Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this
Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the
Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the (whether or not a Business Day, as
defined below) next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any interest so payable, but not
punctually paid or made available for payment, on any Interest Payment Date will forthwith cease to
be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and such Defaulted Interest may either be paid
to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at
the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be
fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof being given to the Holder of this Security not less than
10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid in any other lawful manner not inconsistent
with the requirements of any securities exchange on which this Security may be listed, and upon
such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the 2008 Indenture.
For the purpose of determining the Holder at the close of business on any relevant record date when
business is not conducted, the close of business will mean 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on that
day.

The Company and the Trustee acknowledge that the Company has not opted out of the debt
guarantee program (the  Debt Guarantee Program ) established by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation ( FDIC ) under its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. As a result,  this debt is
guaranteed under the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program and is backed by the full faith and
credit of the United States. The details of the FDIC guarantee are provided in the FDIC s
regulations, 12 CFR Part 370, and at the FDIC s website, www.fdic.gov/tlgp. The expiration date of
the FDIC s guarantee is the earlier of the maturity date of this debt or June 30, 2012 .

The Trustee is hereby designated as the duly authorized representative of the Holder for
purposes of making claims and taking other permitted or required actions under the Debt Guarantee
Program (the  Representative ). The Holder of this Security may elect not to be represented by the
Representative with respect to this Security by providing written notice of such election to the
Representative.

Notwithstanding any provision of this Security, any right of the Holder to receive payment in
respect of this Security under the Debt Guarantee Program shall be subject to the procedures and
other requirements of the Debt Guarantee Program, and the Holder will not be entitled under the
Debt Guarantee Program to receive any additional interest or penalty amounts on account of any
default or resulting delay in payment in respect of this Security.

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-2- 

Currency and Manner of Payment  

IF PAYMENT IS IN U.S. DOLLARS, INSERT    Payment of the principal of and premium or interest
on this Security will be made in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the
time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Security or the 2008 Indenture, if this Security is a Global Security, any
payment in respect of this Security may be made pursuant to the Applicable Procedures of the
Depositary as permitted in the 2008 Indenture.

Subject to the prior paragraph and except as provided in the next paragraph, payment of any
amount payable on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for
that purpose in The City of New York (and at any other office or agency maintained by the Company
for that purpose), against surrender of this Security in the case of any payment due at the
Maturity of the principal hereof (other than any payment of interest that first becomes due on an
Interest Payment Date);  provided ,  however , that, at the option of the Company and
subject to the next paragraph, payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of
the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.

Subject to the second preceding paragraph, payment of any amount payable on this Security will
be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account maintained by the payee with
a bank located in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, if (i) the principal of this
Security is at least $1,000,000 (or the equivalent in another currency) and (ii) the Holder
entitled to receive such payment transmits a written request for such payment to be made in such
manner to the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, on
or before the fifth Business Day before the day on which such payment is to be made;
 provided  that, in the case of any such payment due at the Maturity of the principal hereof
(other than any payment of interest that first becomes due on an Interest Payment Date), this
Security must be surrendered at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in
The City of New York (or at any other office or agency maintained by the Company for that purpose)
in time for the Paying Agent to make such payment in such funds in accordance with its normal
procedures. Any such request made with respect to any payment on this Security payable to a
particular Holder will remain in effect for all later payments on this Security payable to such
Holder, unless such request is revoked on or before the fifth Business Day before a payment is to
be made, in which case such revocation shall be effective for such payment and all later payments.
In the case of any payment of interest payable on an Interest Payment Date, such written request
must be made by the Person who is the registered Holder of this Security on the relevant Regular
Record Date. The Company will pay any administrative costs imposed by banks in connection with
making payments by wire transfer with respect to this Security, but any tax, assessment or other
governmental charge imposed upon any payment will be borne by the Holder of this Security and may
be deducted from the payment by the Company or the Paying Agent.   

IF PAYMENT IS IN EUROS, INSERT    Payment of the principal of and premium or interest on this
Security will be made in euros. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Security or the 2008
Indenture, if this Security is a Global Security, any payment in respect of this Security may be
made pursuant to the Applicable Procedures of the Depositary as permitted in the 2008 Indenture.

Subject to the prior paragraph and except as provided in the next  two   three  paragraphs,
payment of any amount payable on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company
maintained for that purpose in The City of New York (and at any other office or agency maintained
by the Company for that purpose), against surrender of this Security in the case of any payment due
at the Maturity of the principal hereof (other than any payment of interest that first becomes due
on an Interest Payment Date);  provided ,  however , that, at the option of the Company
and subject to the next paragraph, payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address
of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.

Subject to the second preceding paragraph, payment of any amount payable on this Security will
be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account maintained by the payee with
a bank located in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, if (i) the principal of this
Security is at least

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-3- 

USD$1,000,000 (or the equivalent in euros) and (ii) the Holder entitled to receive such
payment transmits a written request for such payment to be made in such manner to the Trustee at
its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, on or before the fifth
Business Day before the day on which such payment is to be made;  provided  that, in the case
of any such payment due at the Maturity of the principal hereof (other than any payment of interest
that first becomes due on an Interest Payment Date), this Security must be surrendered at the
office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in The City of New York (or at any
other office or agency maintained by the Company for that purpose) in time for the Paying Agent to
make such payment in such funds in accordance with its normal procedures. Any such request made
with respect to any payment on this Security payable to a particular Holder will remain in effect
for all later payments on this Security payable to such Holder, unless such request is revoked on
or before the fifth Business Day before a payment is to be made, in which case such revocation
shall be effective for such payment and all later payments. In the case of any payment of interest
payable on an Interest Payment Date, such written request must be made by the Person who is the
registered Holder of this Security on the relevant Regular Record Date. The Company will pay any
administrative costs imposed by banks in connection with making payments by wire transfer with
respect to this Security, but any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed upon any
payment will be borne by the Holder of this Security and may be deducted from the payment by the
Company or the Paying Agent.   

IF LISTED ON LUXEMBOURG STOCK EXCHANGE, INSERT    So long as the Securities of this series are
listed on the Official List of the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and such Stock Exchange shall so
require, the Company will at all times maintain an office or agency in Luxembourg for the payment
of the principal of and interest on the Securities of this series. Such Paying Agent in Luxembourg
shall initially be Dexia Banque Internationale   Luxembourg soci t  anonyme.   

Payments Due on a Business Day  

Notwithstanding any provision of this Security or the 2008 Indenture, if any amount of
principal, premium or interest would otherwise be due on this Security on a day (the  Specified
Day ) that is not a Business Day, such amount may be paid or made available for payment on the
Business Day that is next succeeding the Specified Day with the same force and effect as if such
amount were paid on the Specified Day; and no interest will accrue on the amount so payable for the
period from the Specified Day to such next succeeding Business Day. For all purposes of this
Security,  Business Day  means any day that is not a Saturday or Sunday, and that is not a day on
which banking institutions generally are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive
order to close in The City of New York     IF PAYMENT IS IN EUROS, INSERT    or London, and that is
also a Euro Business Day, as defined below. The term  Euro Business Day  means any day on which
the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System, or any
successor system, is open for business;     provided  that, solely with respect to any payment
to be made at any Place of Payment outside The City of New York  IF PAYMENT IS IN EUROS, INSERT    or
London   , Business Day means any day that is a  Business Day  as defined above and that is also not
a day on which banking institutions generally are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or
executive order to close in such Place of Payment;  provided   further  that, with
respect to Section 12 of the reverse hereof and Exhibit B hereto, the definition of  Business Day 
therein shall apply. The provisions of this paragraph shall apply to this Security in lieu of the
provisions of Section 1.13 of the 2008 Indenture.

IF PAYMENT IS IN EUROS, INSERT    Payments Made in U.S. Dollars

Notwithstanding any provision of this Security or the 2008 Indenture, if any amount payable on
this Security is payable on any day and if euros are not available to the Company on the two
Business Days before such day, due to the imposition of exchange controls, disruption in a currency
market or any other circumstances beyond the control of the Company, the Company will be entitled
to satisfy its obligation to pay such amount in euros by making such payment in U.S. dollars. The
amount of such payment in U.S. dollars shall be determined by the Exchange Rate Agent on the basis
of the noon buying rate for cable transfers in The City of New York for euros (the  Exchange Rate )
as of the latest day before the day on which such payment is to be made. Any payment made under
such circumstances in U.S. dollars where the

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-4- 

required payment is in euros will not constitute an Event of Default under this Security or
the 2008 Indenture.

Exchange Rate Agent  

As
used herein, the  Exchange Rate Agent  shall initially mean
[                        
 provided  that the Company may, in its sole discretion, appoint any other institution
(including any affiliate of the Company) to serve as any such agent from time to time. The Company
will give the Trustee prompt written notice of any change in any such appointment. Insofar as this
Security provides for any such agent to obtain rates, quotes or other data from a bank, dealer or
other institution for use in making any determination hereunder, such agent may do so from any
institution or institutions of the kind contemplated hereby notwithstanding that any one or more of
such institutions are any such agent, affiliates of any such agent or affiliates of the Company.

All determinations made by the Exchange Rate Agent pursuant to the terms of this Security
shall be, absent manifest error, conclusive for all purposes and binding on the Holder of this
Security and the Company. The Exchange Rate Agent shall not have any liability therefor.   

Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse
hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at
this place.

Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to
on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under
the 2008 Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-5- 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.

Dated:

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 

By   

Name:   

Title:   

This is one of the Securities of the series designated herein and referred to in the 2008
Indenture.

Dated:

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON, as Trustee 

By   

Authorized Signatory  

(Reverse of Security)

1.   Securities and Indenture.  

This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called
the  Securities ) issued and to be issued in one or more series under a Senior Debt Indenture,
dated as of July 16, 2008 (herein called the  2008 Indenture , which term shall have the meaning
assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee
(herein called the  Trustee , which term includes any successor trustee under the 2008 Indenture),
and reference is hereby made to the 2008 Indenture for a statement of the respective rights,
limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders
of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and
delivered.

2.   Series and Denominations.  

This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited to an aggregate
principal amount as shall be determined and may be increased from time to time by the Company. Any
election by the Company so to increase such aggregate principal amount shall be evidenced by a
certificate of an Authorized Person (as defined in the Determination of an Authorized Person, dated
        , with respect to this series). References herein to  this series  mean the series of
Securities designated on the face hereof. The Securities of this series are issuable only in
registered form without coupons in denominations of integral multiples of         
                     , subject to a minimum denomination of $                   .

3.   IF APPLICABLE, INSERT      Additional Amounts.  

If the beneficial owner of this Security is a United States Alien (as defined below), the
Company will pay all additional amounts that may be necessary so that every net payment of the
principal of and interest on this Security to such beneficial owner, after deduction or withholding
for or on account of any present or future tax, assessment or governmental charge imposed with
respect to such payment by any U.S. Taxing Authority (as defined below), will not be less than the
amount provided for in this Security to be then due and payable;  provided ,  however ,
that the Company shall have no obligation to pay additional amounts for or on account of any one or
more of the following:

(i) any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed solely because at any
time there is or was a connection between such beneficial owner (or between a fiduciary,
settlor, beneficiary or member of such beneficial owner, if such beneficial owner is an
estate, trust or partnership) and the United States (as defined below) (other than the mere
receipt of a payment on, or the ownership or holding of, a Security), including because
such beneficial owner (or such fiduciary, settlor, beneficiary or member) at any time, for
U.S. federal income tax purposes: (a) is or was a citizen or resident, or is or was treated
as a resident, of the United States, (b) is or was present in the United States, (c) is or
was engaged in a trade or business in the United States, (d) has or had a permanent
establishment in the United States, (e) is or was a domestic or foreign personal holding
company, a passive foreign investment company or a controlled foreign corporation, (f) is
or was a corporation that accumulates earnings to avoid U.S. federal income tax or (g) is
or was a  10-percent shareholder  of the Company as defined in section 871(h)(3) of the
U.S. Internal Revenue Code or any successor provision;

(ii) any tax, assessment or governmental charge imposed solely because of a change in
applicable law or regulation, or in any official interpretation or application of
applicable law or regulation, that becomes effective more than 15 days after the day on
which the payment becomes due or is made available, whichever occurs later;

(iii) any estate, inheritance, gift, sales, excise, transfer, wealth or personal
property tax or any similar tax, assessment or other governmental charge;

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-7- 

(iv) any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed solely because such
beneficial owner or any other Person fails to comply with any certification, identification
or other reporting requirement concerning the nationality, residence, identity or
connection with the United States of the Holder or any beneficial owner of this Security,
if compliance is required by statute, by regulation of the U.S. Treasury Department or by
an applicable income tax treaty to which the United States is a party, as a precondition to
exemption from such tax, assessment or other governmental charge;

(v) any tax, assessment or other governmental charge that is payable otherwise than by
deduction or withholding from payments of principal of or interest on this Security;

(vi) any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed solely because the
payment is to be made by a particular Paying Agent (which term may include the Company) and
would not be imposed if made by another Paying Agent (which term may include the Company);

(vii) by or on behalf of a Holder who would be able to avoid such withholding or
deduction by presenting this Security to another Paying Agent in a Member State of the
European Union;

(viii) any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed solely because the
Holder (1) is a bank purchasing this Security in the ordinary course of its lending
business or (2) is a bank that is neither (A) buying this Security for investment purposes
only nor (B) buying this Security for resale to a third party that either is not a bank or
holding the note for investment purposes only; or

(ix) any combination of the taxes, assessments or other governmental charges described
in items (i) through (viii) of this Section 3.

Additional amounts also will not be paid with respect to any payment of principal of or
interest on this Security to any United States Alien who is a fiduciary or a partnership, or who is
not the sole beneficial owner of any such payment, to the extent that the Company would not be
required to pay additional amounts to any beneficiary or settlor of such fiduciary or any member of
such a partnership, or to any beneficial owner of the payment, if that Person had been treated as
the beneficial owner of this Security for this purpose.

The term  United States Alien  means any Person who, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, is
a nonresident alien individual, a foreign corporation, a foreign partnership one or more of the
members of which is, for United States federal income tax purposes, a foreign corporation, a
nonresident alien individual or a nonresident alien fiduciary of a foreign estate or trust, or a
nonresident alien fiduciary of an estate or trust that is not subject to U.S. federal income tax on
a net income basis on income or gain from this Security. For the purposes of this Section 3 and
Section 4 only, (a) the term  United States  means the United States of America (including the
states thereof and the District of Columbia), together with the territories, possessions and all
other areas subject to the jurisdiction of the United States of America and (b) the term  U.S.
Taxing Authority  means the United States of America or any state, other jurisdiction or taxing
authority in the United States.

Except as specifically provided in this Security, the Company shall not be required to make
any payment with respect to any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed by any
government or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein.

Whenever in the Securities of this series (or in the 2008 Indenture, including in Sections
5.01(1) and 501(2) thereof, insofar as applicable to this series) there is a reference, in any
context, to the payment of the principal of or interest on any Security of this series, such
mention shall be deemed to include mention of any payment of additional amounts to United States
Aliens in respect of such payment of principal or interest to the extent that, in such context,
such additional amounts are, were or would be

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-8- 

payable in respect thereof pursuant to this Section 3 or any corresponding section of another
Security of this series, as the case may be. Express mention of the payment of additional amounts
in any provision of any Security of this series shall not be construed as excluding additional
amounts in the provisions of any Security of this series (or of the 2008 Indenture insofar as it
applies to this series) where such express mention is not made.   

4.   Redemption.  

The Securities of this series may be redeemed, as a whole but not in part, at the option of
the Company, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be
redeemed, together with interest accrued to the date fixed for redemption, if, as a result of any
amendment to, or change in, the laws or regulations of any U.S. Taxing Authority (as defined in
Section 3 above), or any amendment to or change in any official interpretation or application of
such laws or regulations, which amendment or change becomes effective or is announced on or after
          , the Company will become obligated to pay, on the next Interest Payment Date,
additional amounts in respect of any Security of this series pursuant to Section 3 of this Security
or any corresponding section of another Security of this series. If the Company becomes entitled to
redeem the Securities of this series, it may do so on any day thereafter pursuant to the 2008
Indenture;  provided ,  however , that (1) the Company gives the Holder of this
Security notice of such redemption not more than 60 days nor less than 30 days prior to the date
fixed for redemption as provided in the 2008 Indenture, (2) no such notice of redemption may be
given earlier than 90 days prior to the next Interest Payment Date on which the Company would be
obligated to pay such additional amounts and (3) at the time such notice is given, such obligation
to pay such additional amounts remains in effect. Immediately prior to the giving of any notice of
redemption of Securities pursuant to this Section 4, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an
Officers  Certificate stating that the Company is entitled to effect such redemption and setting
forth in reasonable detail a statement of facts showing that the conditions precedent to the right
of the Company to so redeem the Securities have occurred. Interest installments due on or prior to
a Redemption Date will be payable to the Holder of this Security or one or more Predecessor
Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant record date, all as provided in the
2008 Indenture.

5.   Defeasance.  

The 2008 Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness
of this Security or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this
Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the 2008 Indenture.

6.   Modification and Waiver.  

The 2008 Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof
and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company, and the rights of the Holders of
the Securities to be affected, under the 2008 Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee
with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of all Securities at the time
Outstanding to be affected, considered together as one class for this purpose (such affected
Securities may be Securities of the same or different series and, with respect to any series, may
comprise fewer than all the Securities of such series). The 2008 Indenture also contains provisions
(i) permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time
Outstanding to be affected, considered together as one class for this purpose (such affected
Securities may be Securities of the same or different series and, with respect to any particular
series, may comprise fewer than all the Securities of such series), on behalf of the Holders of all
such affected Securities, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the 2008
Indenture and (ii) permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at
the time Outstanding of any series to be affected (with each such series considered separately for
this purpose), on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive certain past
defaults under the 2008 Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder
of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of
this Security and of any Security issued upon the

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-9- 

registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not
notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.

7.   Remedies.  

Sections 5.01 and 5.02 of the 2008 Indenture are hereby amended with respect to the Securities
of this series to the extent necessary to comply with Section 5.01 and Annex A of the Master
Agreement, dated November 25, 2008, as the same may be amended from time to time (the  Master
Agreement ), by and between the Company and the FDIC, attached hereto as Exhibit A. Subject to the
immediately preceding sentence and Section 14 of the reverse of this Security, if an Event of
Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of
the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect
provided in the 2008 Indenture.

As provided in and subject to the provisions of the 2008 Indenture and subject to Section 14
of the reverse of this Security, the Holder of this Security shall not have the right to institute
any proceeding with respect to the 2008 Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee,
or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee
written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the
Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Securities of this series at the time
Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of
such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it,
and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of
Securities of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and
shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice,
request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder
of this Security for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest
hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.

If so provided pursuant to the terms of any specific Securities, the above-referenced
provisions of the 2008 Indenture regarding the ability of Holders to waive certain defaults, or to
request the Trustee to institute proceedings (or to give the Trustee other directions) in respect
thereof, may be applied differently with regard to such Securities.

No reference herein to the 2008 Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the 2008
Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional,
to pay the principal of and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin
or currency, herein prescribed.

8.   Transfer and Exchange.  

As provided in the 2008 Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the
transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security
for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the
principal of and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a
written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly
executed by, the Holder hereof or his or her attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one
or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the
same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.

As provided in the 2008 Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth,
Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of
this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder
surrendering the same.

No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the
Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge
payable in connection therewith.

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-10- 

Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the
Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this
Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be
overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the
contrary.

This Security is a Global Security and is subject to the provisions of the 2008 Indenture
relating to Global Securities, including the limitations in Section 3.05 thereof on transfers and
exchanges of Global Securities (subject to Section 10 of the reverse of this Security).

9.   Subrogation.  

The FDIC shall be subrogated to all of the rights of the Holder and the Representative under
this Security and the 2008 Indenture against the Company in respect of any amounts paid to the
Holder, or for the benefit of the Holder, by the FDIC pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program.

10.   Agreement to Execute Assignment upon Guarantee Payment.  

The Holder hereby authorizes the Representative, at such time as the FDIC shall commence
making any guarantee payments to the Representative for the benefit of the Holder pursuant to the
Debt Guarantee Program, to execute an assignment in the form attached to this Security as Exhibit B
pursuant to which the Representative shall assign to the FDIC its right as Representative to
receive any and all payments from the Company under this Security on behalf of the Holder. The
Company hereby consents and agrees that the FDIC is an acceptable transferee for all or any portion
of the indebtedness hereunder for all purposes of this Security and upon any such assignment, the
FDIC shall be deemed the Holder of this Security for all purposes hereof, and the Company hereby
agrees to take such reasonable steps as are necessary to comply with any relevant provision of this
Security and the 2008 Indenture as a result of such assignment.

Section 3.05 of the 2008 Indenture is hereby amended with respect to the Securities of this
series to the extent necessary to permit the Holder, the Representative and the Company to comply
with this Section 10, Section 11 below or any other similar provision of this Security.

11.   Surrender of Senior Unsecured Debt Instrument to the FDIC.  

If, at any time on or prior to the expiration of the period during which senior unsecured debt
of the Company is guaranteed by the FDIC under the Debt Guarantee Program (the  Effective Period ),
payment in full hereunder shall be made pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program on the outstanding
principal and accrued interest to such date of payment, the Holder shall, or the Holder shall cause
the person or entity in possession to, promptly surrender to the FDIC this Security.

12.   Notice Obligations to FDIC of Payment Default.  

If, at any time prior to the earlier of (a) full satisfaction of the payment obligations
hereunder, or (b) expiration of the Effective Period, the Company is in default of any payment
obligation hereunder, including timely payment of any accrued and unpaid interest, without regard
to any cure period, the Representative covenants and agrees that it shall provide written notice to
the FDIC within one (1) Business Day of such payment default. Solely for the purpose of this
Section 12,  Business Day  means any day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banks
are required or authorized by law to be closed in the State of New York.

13.   Ranking.  

Any indebtedness of the Company to the FDIC arising under Section 2.03 of the Master Agreement
will constitute a senior unsecured general obligation of the Company, ranking pari passu with any
indebtedness hereunder.

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-11- 

14.   No Event of Default during Time of Timely FDIC Guarantee Payments.  

There shall not be deemed to be an Event of Default under this Security or the 2008 Indenture
which would permit or result in the acceleration of amounts due hereunder, if such an Event of
Default is due solely to the failure of the Company to make timely payment hereunder, provided that
the FDIC is making timely guarantee payments with respect to this Security in accordance with 12
C.F.R Part 370.

The following provisions of this paragraph shall apply to this Security in addition to, and
without limiting, the foregoing provisions of this Section 14. No event that would otherwise
constitute an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series shall constitute an
Event of Default with respect to this Security, provided that, if any amounts of principal or
interest are due in respect of this Security and have not been paid (or made available for
payment), the FDIC is making timely guarantee payments of such amounts in accordance with 12 C.F.R
Part 370. As a result, upon the occurrence of any such event (including any event of the kind
specified in said Section 5.01), neither the Trustee nor the Holder of this Security shall be
entitled, with respect to this Security, to seek any remedies otherwise available, or to take any
other action otherwise provided for, under the 2008 Indenture upon an Event of Default (including
any right to accelerate the Maturity of the principal of this Security pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the 2008 Indenture, any right to exchange (at the Holder s option) this Security for a Security
that is not a Global Security pursuant to Section 3.05 thereof and any right to institute a
proceeding pursuant to Section 5.07 thereof), provided that, if any amounts of principal or
interest are due in respect of this Security and have not been paid (or made available for
payment), the FDIC is making timely guarantee payments of such amounts in accordance with 12 C.F.R
Part 370. Without limiting the foregoing, no event, including any event of the kind specified in
Section 5.01(5) or 5.01(6) of the 2008 Indenture, shall result in the automatic acceleration of the
Maturity of the principal of this Security pursuant to Section 5.02 thereof. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, however, the rights of the Holder of this Security pursuant to Section 5.08 of the 2008
Indenture shall not be affected by this Section 14. With regard to this Security, the provisions
of Article Five of the 2008 Indenture shall be subject to, and shall be deemed modified as
necessary to be consistent with, the provisions of this Section 14.

15.   No Modifications without FDIC Consent.  

Without the express written consent of the FDIC, the Company and the Trustee agree not to
amend, modify, supplement or waive any provision in this Security or the 2008 Indenture that is
related to the principal, interest, payment, default or ranking of the indebtedness hereunder or
that is required to be included herein pursuant to the Master Agreement.

16.   Demand Obligations to FDIC upon the Company s Failure to Pay.  

On the 30th day after the date the Company defaults in payment of interest on this Security,
which default has not been cured by the Company by such 30th day, in the case of default in
interest, or at the Maturity, in the case of default in principal of this Security, the
Representative shall make a demand on behalf of the Holder to the FDIC for payment on the
guaranteed amount under the Debt Guarantee Program. Such demand shall be accompanied by a proof of
claim, which shall include evidence, to the extent not previously provided in the Master Agreement,
in form and content satisfactory to the FDIC, of: (A) the Representative s financial and
organizational capacity to act as Representative; (B) the Representative s exclusive authority to
act on behalf of the Holder and its fiduciary responsibility to the Holder when acting as such, as
established by the terms of this Security and the 2008 Indenture; (C) the occurrence of a payment
default; and (D) the authority to make an assignment of the Holder s right, title, and interest in
this Security to the FDIC and to effect the transfer to the FDIC of the Holder s claim in any
insolvency proceeding. Such assignment shall include the right of the FDIC to receive any and all
distributions on this Security from the proceeds of the receivership or bankruptcy estate. Any
demand under this Section 16 shall be made in writing and directed to the Director, Division of
Resolution and Receiverships, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Washington, D.C., and shall
include all supporting evidences as provided in this Section 16, and shall certify to the accuracy
thereof.

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-12- 

IF LISTED ON LUXEMBOURG STOCK EXCHANGE, INSERT   

17.   Notices.  

Notices that are required hereunder or under the 2008 Indenture to be given to Holders of the
Securities of this series shall be given to Holders of the Securities of this series as set forth
in the 2008 Indenture and in the next paragraph.

So long as the Securities of this series are listed on the Official List of the Luxembourg
Stock Exchange and such Stock Exchange shall so require, the Trustee will publish any such required
notices in a daily newspaper of general circulation in Luxembourg. If publication in Luxembourg is
not practical, the Trustee will publish any such required notices elsewhere in Europe. Published
notices will be deemed to have been given on the date they are published. If publication as
described in this paragraph becomes impossible, the Trustee may publish sufficient notice by
alternate means that approximate the terms and conditions as described in this paragraph.   

18.   Governing Law.  

This Security and the 2008 Indenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the
laws of the State of New York. 

19.   Terms Defined in the 2008 Indenture.  

All terms used in this Security which are defined in the 2008 Indenture shall have the
meanings assigned to them in the 2008 Indenture.

IF APPLICABLE, INSERT    References in this Security to euro shall mean, as of any time, the
coin or currency (if any) that is legal tender for the payment of private and public debt in all
countries then participating in the European Economic and Monetary Union (or any successor union)
pursuant to the Treaty on European Union of February 1992 (or any successor treaty), as it may be
amended from time to time.   

-13- 

ASSIGNMENT 

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto

PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR OTHER 
IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE

(Please Print or Typewrite Name and Address 
Including Postal Zip Code of Assignee)

the attached Security and all rights thereunder, and hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints

to transfer said Security on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the
premises.

Dated:                       

Signature Guaranteed

NOTICE: Signature must be guaranteed.

NOTICE: The signature to this
assignment must correspond with the
name of the Holder as written upon
the face of the attached Security in
every particular, without alteration
or any change whatever. 

EXHIBIT A

MASTER AGREEMENT 

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  

Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program   Debt Guarantee Program  

TLGP Master Agreement 11/24/08 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

TLGP Master Agreement 11/24/08 

MASTER AGREEMENT 

THIS MASTER AGREEMENT  (this   Master Agreement  ) is being entered into as of the date
set forth on the signature page hereto by and between THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION ,  a
corporation organized under the laws of the United States of America and having its principal
office in Washington, D.C. (the   FDIC  ), and the entity whose name appears on the signature
page hereto (the   Issuer  ).

RECITALS   

WHEREAS , on November 21, 2008, the FDIC issued its Final Rule, 12 C.F.R. Part 370 (as may be
amended from time to time, the   Rule  ), establishing the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee
Program (the   Program   and

WHEREAS , pursuant to the Rule, the FDIC will guarantee the payment of certain newly-issued
 senior unsecured debt  (as defined in the Rule,
hereinafter   Senior Unsecured
Debt  ) issued by an  eligible entity  (as defined in the Rule); and

WHEREAS , the Issuer is an eligible entity for purposes of the Rule and has elected to
participate in the debt guarantee component of the Program.

ARTICLE I 
DEFINITIONS 

1.01.    Certain Defined Terms   .  As used in this Master Agreement, the following terms
shall have the following meanings:

Business Day   means any day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banks
are required or authorized by law to be closed in the State of New York.

FDIC   has the meaning ascribed to such term in the introductory paragraph to this
Master Agreement.

FDIC Guarantee   means the guarantee of payment by the FDIC of the Senior Unsecured
Debt of the Issuer in accordance with the terms of the Program.

Guarantee Payment   means any payment made by the FDIC under the Program with respect
to Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer.

Guarantee Payment Notice   has the meaning ascribed to such term in  Section
2.02 .

Issuer   has the meaning ascribed to such term in the introductory paragraph to this
Master Agreement.

Issuer Make-Whole Payments   has the meaning ascribed to such term in
 Section 2.03 .

Issuer Reports   means reports, registrations, documents, filings, statements and
submissions, together with any amendments thereto, that the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer
is required to file with any governmental entity.

Master Agreement   means this Master Agreement, together with all Annexes and
amendments hereto.

Material Adverse Effect   means a material adverse effect on the business, results of
operations or financial condition of the Issuer and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole.

Program   has the meaning ascribed to such term in the Recitals.

Reimbursement Payment   has the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 2.03.

Relevant Provision   means any provision that is related to the principal, interest,
payment, default or ranking of the Senior Unsecured Debt, any provision contained in Annex A or any
other provision the amendment of which would require the consent of any or all of the holders of
such debt.

Representative   means the trustee, administrative agent, paying agent or other
fiduciary or agent designated as the  Representative  under the governing documents for any Senior
Unsecured Debt of the Issuer subject to the FDIC Guarantee for purposes of submitting claims or
taking other actions under the Program.

Rule   has the meaning ascribed to such term in the Recitals.

Senior Unsecured Debt   has the meaning ascribed to such term in the Recitals.

1.02.    Terms Generally   .  Words in the singular shall be held to include the plural and
vice versa and words of one gender shall be held to include the other gender as the context
requires, the terms  hereof ,  herein  and  herewith  and words of similar import shall, unless
otherwise stated, be construed to refer to this Master Agreement and not to any particular
provision of this Master Agreement, and Article, Section and paragraph references are to the
Articles, Sections and paragraphs of this Master Agreement unless otherwise specified, and the word
 including  and words of similar import when used in this Master Agreement shall mean  including,
without limitation , unless otherwise specified.

ARTICLE II 
SENIOR DEBT GUARANTEE 

2.01.    Acknowledgement of Guarantee  . The FDIC hereby acknowledges that the Issuer has
elected to participate in the debt guarantee component of the Program and that, as a result, the
Issuer s Senior Unsecured Debt is guaranteed by the FDIC to the extent set forth in, and subject to
the provisions of, the Rule, and subject to the terms hereof.

2.02.    Guarantee Payments  . The Issuer understands and acknowledges that any Guarantee
Payment with respect to a particular issue of Senior Unsecured Debt shall be paid by the FDIC
directly to:

(a) the Representative with respect to such Senior Unsecured Debt if a Representative has been
designated; or

(b) the registered holder(s) of such Senior Unsecured Debt if no Representative has been
designated; or

(c) any registered holder of such Senior Unsecured Debt who has opted out of being represented
by the designated Representative;

in each case, pursuant to the claims procedure set forth in the Rule. In no event shall the FDIC
make any Guarantee Payment to the Issuer directly. The FDIC will provide prompt written notice to
the Issuer of any Guarantee Payment made by the FDIC with respect to any of the Issuer s Senior
Unsecured Debt (the   Guarantee Payment Notice  ).

2.03.    Issuer Make-Whole Payments  . In consideration of the FDIC providing the FDIC
Guarantee with respect to the Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer, the Issuer hereby irrevocably
and unconditionally covenants and agrees:

(a) to reimburse the FDIC immediately upon receipt of the Guarantee Payment Notice for all
Guarantee Payments set forth in the Guarantee Payment Notice (the   Reimbursement Payment  )
(without duplication of any amounts actually received by the FDIC as subrogee or assignee under the
governing documents of the relevant Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer);

(b) beginning as of the date of the Issuer s receipt of the Guarantee Payment Notice, to pay
interest on any unpaid Reimbursement Payments until such Reimbursement Payments shall have been
paid in full by the Issuer, at an interest rate equal to one percent (1%) per annum above the
non-default interest rate payable on the Senior Unsecured Debt with respect to which the relevant
Guarantee Payments were made, as calculated in accordance with the documents governing such Senior
Unsecured Debt; and

(c) to reimburse the FDIC for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, disbursements and
advances incurred or made by it, including costs of collection or other enforcement of the Issuer s
payment obligations hereunder. Such expenses shall include the reasonable compensation and
expenses, disbursements and advances of the FDIC s agents, counsel, accountants and experts.

Clauses (a), (b) and (c) above are collectively referred to herein as the   Issuer
Make-Whole Payments  . The indebtedness of the Issuer to the FDIC arising under this
 Section 2.03  constitutes a senior unsecured general obligation of the Issuer, ranking  pari
passu  with other senior unsecured indebtedness of the Issuer, including without limitation Senior Unsecured Debt of
the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee.

2.04.    Waiver of Defenses  . The Issuer hereby waives any defenses it might otherwise
have to its payment obligations under any of the Issuer s Senior Unsecured Debt or under
 Section 2.03  hereof, in each case beginning at such time as the FDIC has made any Guarantee

Payment with respect to such Senior Unsecured Debt and continuing until such time as all Issuer
Make-Whole Payments have been received by the FDIC.

ARTICLE III 
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF THE ISSUER 

3.01.    Organization and Authority  . The Issuer has been duly organized and is validly
existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, with the
necessary power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business in all material
respects as currently conducted, except as has not had, or would not reasonably be expected to
have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.

3.02.    Authorization, Enforceability  .

(a) The Issuer has the power and authority to execute and deliver this Master Agreement and to
carry out its obligations hereunder. The execution, delivery and performance by the Issuer of this
Master Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly
authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Issuer, and no further approval or
authorization is required on the part of the Issuer. This Master Agreement is a valid and binding
obligation of the Issuer enforceable against the Issuer in accordance with its terms, subject to
(i) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or other similar laws
now or hereafter in effect relating to creditors  rights generally and (ii) general principles of
equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity).

(b) The execution, delivery and performance by the Issuer of this Master Agreement and the
consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and compliance by the Issuer with the
provisions hereof, will not (i) violate, conflict with, or result in a breach of any provision of,
or constitute a default (or an event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute
a default) under, or result in the termination of, or accelerate the performance required by, or
result in a right of termination or acceleration of, or result in the creation of, any lien,
security interest, charge or encumbrance upon any of the properties or assets of the Issuer or any
subsidiary of the Issuer under, any of the terms, conditions or provisions of, as applicable, (X)
its organizational documents or (Y) any note, bond, mortgage, indenture, deed of trust, license,
lease, agreement or other instrument or obligation to which the Issuer or any subsidiary of the
Issuer may be bound, or to which the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer may be subject, or (ii)
violate any statute, rule or regulation or any judgment, ruling, order, writ, injunction or decree
applicable to the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer or any of their respective properties or
assets except, in the case of clauses (i)(Y) and (ii), for those occurrences that, individually or
in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse
Effect.

(c) No prior notice to, filing with, exemption or review by, or authorization, consent or
approval of, any governmental entity is required to be made or obtained by the Issuer in connection
with the execution of this Master Agreement, except for any such notices, filings, exemptions,
reviews, authorizations, consents and approvals which have been made or obtained

or the failure of which to make or obtain would not, individually or in the aggregate,
reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.

3.03.    Reports  . Since December 31, 2007, the Issuer and each subsidiary of the Issuer
has timely filed all Issuer Reports and has paid all fees and assessments due and payable in
connection therewith, except, in each case, as would not individually or in the aggregate have a
Material Adverse Effect. As of their respective dates of filing, the Issuer Reports complied in
all material respects with all statutes and applicable rules and regulations of all applicable
governmental entities. In the case of each such Issuer Report filed with or furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission, if any, such Issuer Report (a) did not, as of its date, or if
amended prior to the date of this Master Agreement, as of the date of such amendment, contain an
untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the
statements made therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading,
(b) complied as to form in all material respects with all applicable requirements of the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and (c) no executive
officer of the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer has failed in any respect to make the
certifications required by him or her under Section 302 or 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
With respect to all other Issuer Reports, the Issuer Reports were complete and accurate in all
material respects as of their respective dates.

ARTICLE IV 
NOTICE AND REPORTING 

4.01.    Reports of Existing and Future Guaranteed Debt   .  The Issuer shall provide
reports to the FDIC of the amount of all Senior Unsecured Debt subject to the FDIC Guarantee in
accordance with the reporting requirements of the Rule.

4.02.    On-going Reporting   .  The Issuer covenants and agrees that, for so long as it has
outstanding Senior Unsecured Debt that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee, it shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the FDIC (a) monthly reports, in such form as specified by the FDIC, containing
information relating to the Issuer s outstanding Senior Unsecured Debt that is subject to the FDIC
Guarantee and such other information as may be requested in such form, and (b) such other
information that the FDIC may reasonably request, such other information to be delivered within ten
(10) Business Days of receipt by the Issuer of any such request.

4.03.    Notice of Defaults   .  The Issuer covenants and agrees that it shall notify the
FDIC within one (1) Business Day of any default in the payment of any principal or interest when
due, without giving effect to any cure period, with respect to any indebtedness of the Issuer
(including debt that is not subject to the FDIC Guarantee), whether such debt is existing as of the
date of this Master Agreement or is issued subsequent to the date hereof, if such default would
result, or would reasonably be expected to result, in an event of default under any Senior
Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee.

ARTICLE V 
COVENANTS AND ACKNOWLEDGMENTS OF THE ISSUER 

5.01.    Terms to be included in Future Guaranteed Debt  . The governing documents for the
issuance of any Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee shall
contain each of the provisions set forth in  Annex A . If a particular issue of Senior
Unsecured Debt is evidenced solely by a trade confirmation, the Issuer shall use commercially
reasonable efforts to cause the holder of such debt to execute a written instrument setting forth
the holder s agreement to be bound by the provisions set forth in  Annex A . No document
governing the issuance of Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee
shall contain any provision that would result in the automatic acceleration of the debt upon a
default by the Issuer at any time during which the FDIC Guarantee is in effect or during which
Guarantee Payments are being made in accordance with Section 370.12(b)(2) of the Rule.

5.02.    Breaches; False or Misleading Statements  . The Issuer acknowledges and agrees
that (a) if it is in breach of any provision of this Master Agreement or (b) if it makes any false
or misleading statement or representation in connection with the Issuer s participation in the
Program, or makes any statement or representation in bad faith with the intent to influence the
actions of the FDIC, the FDIC may take the enforcement actions provided in Section 370.11 of the
Rule, including termination of the Issuer s participation in the Program. As set forth in the
Rule, any termination of the Issuer s participation in the Program would solely have prospective
effect, and would in no event affect the FDIC Guarantee with respect to Senior Unsecured Debt of
the Issuer that is issued and outstanding prior to the termination of the Issuer s participation in
the Program.

5.03.    No Modifications  . The Issuer covenants and agrees that it shall not amend,
modify, or consent to any amendment or modification, or waive any Relevant Provision, without the
express written consent of the FDIC.

5.04.    Waiver by the Issuer  . The Issuer acknowledges and agrees that if any covenant,
stipulation or other provision of this Master Agreement that imposes on the Issuer the obligation
to make any payment is at any time void under any provision of applicable law, the Issuer will not
make any claim, counterclaim or institute any proceedings against the FDIC or any of its assignees
or subrogees for any amount paid by the Issuer at any time, and the Issuer waives unconditionally
and absolutely any rights and defenses, legal or equitable, which arise under or in connection with
any such provision and which might otherwise be available to it for recovery of any amount due
under this Master Agreement.

ARTICLE
VI GENERAL
PROVISIONS 

6.01.    Amendment and Modification of this Master Agreement   .  This Master Agreement may
be amended, modified and supplemented in any and all respects, but only by a written instrument
signed by the parties hereto expressly stating that such instrument is intended to amend, modify or
supplement this Master Agreement.

6.02.    Notices   .  Unless otherwise provided herein, all notices and other
communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed given when mailed, delivered
personally, telecopied (which is confirmed) or sent by an overnight courier service, such as FedEx,
to the parties at the following addresses (or at such other address for a party as shall be
specified by such party by like notice):

if to the Issuer, to the address appearing on the signature page hereto

if to the FDIC, to:

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 

Deputy Director, Receivership Operations Branch 

Division of Resolutions and Receiverships 

Attention: Master Agreement 

550 17th Street, N.W. 

Washington, DC 20429 

6.03.    Counterparts   .  This Master Agreement may be executed in counterparts, which,
together, shall be considered one and the same agreement. Copies of executed counterparts
transmitted by telecopy or other electronic transmission service shall be considered original,
executed counterparts, provided receipt of such counterparts is confirmed.

6.04.    Severability   .  Any term or provision of this Master Agreement that is held by a
court of competent jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable in any
situation in any jurisdiction shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining
terms and provisions hereof or the validity or enforceability of the offending term or provision in
any other situation or in any other jurisdiction. If the final judgment of a court of competent
jurisdiction or other authority declares that any term or provision hereof is invalid, void or
unenforceable, the parties agree that the court making such determination shall have the power to
reduce the scope, duration or applicability of the term or provision, to delete specific words or
phrases, or to replace any invalid, void or unenforceable term or provision with a term or
provision that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to expressing the intention of the
invalid or unenforceable term or provision.

6.05.    Governing Law   .  Federal law of the United States shall control this Master
Agreement. To the extent that federal law does not supply a rule of decision, this Master
Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in accordance with, the laws of the
State of New York without giving effect to principles of conflicts of law other than Section 5-1401
of the New York General Obligations Law. Nothing in this Master Agreement will require any
unlawful action or inaction by either party.

6.06.    Venue   .  Each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that
any legal action arising under or in connection with this Master Agreement is to be instituted in
the United States District Court in and for the District of Columbia or in any United States
District Court in the jurisdiction where the Issuer s principal office is located.

6.07.    Assignment   .  Neither this Master Agreement nor any of the rights, interests or
obligations hereunder shall be assigned by any of the parties hereto (whether by operation
of law or otherwise) without the prior written consent of the other party, and any purported
assignment

without such consent shall be void. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Master Agreement shall
be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties and their
respective successors and assigns.

6.08.    Headings  . The headings and subheadings of the Table of Contents, Articles and
Sections contained in this Master Agreement, except the terms identified for definition in Article
I and elsewhere in this Master Agreement, are inserted for convenience only and shall not affect
the meaning or interpretation of this Master Agreement or any provision hereof.

6.09.    Delivery Requirement   .  The Issuer shall submit a completed, executed and dated
copy of the signature page hereto to the FDIC within five (5) business days of the date of the
Issuer s election to continue participating in the debt guarantee component of the Program in
accordance with the delivery instructions set forth on the signature page.

SIGNATURES BEGIN ON NEXT PAGE  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the Issuer and the FDIC have caused this Master Agreement to be executed
by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.

THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE 
CORPORATION  

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

NAME OF ISSUER:  

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:   

 /s/  David Viniar   

Name:   
     David Viniar  

Chief Financial Officer  

Address of Issuer:
85 Broad Street  
New York, New York 10004   
FDIC Certificate
Number:                         
  
RSSD ID or 
OTS Docket
Number:
2380443

Date:
11/25/08

Delivery Instructions   

Please deliver a completed, executed and dated copy of this Signature Page to the FDIC within
five (5) business days of the date of the Issuer s election to continue participating in the Debt
Guarantee Program. Email is the preferred method of delivery to MasterAgreement@fdic.gov, or you
may send it by an overnight courier service such as FedEx to Senior Counsel, Special Issues Unit,
E7056, Attention: Master Agreement, 3501 Fairfax Drive, Arlington, Virginia, 22226.

Annex A   

Terms to be Included in Future Issuances of FDIC Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Debt   

The following provisions shall be included in the governing documents for the issuance of
Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee, in substantially the
form presented below, unless otherwise specified. The appropriate name of the governing
document(s) shall be inserted in place of the term  Agreement  where it appears in this Annex A.

Acknowledgement of the FDIC s Debt Guarantee Program 

The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that the Issuer has not opted out of the debt
guarantee program (the   Debt Guarantee Program  ) established by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (  FDIC  ) under its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. As a
result,  this debt is guaranteed under the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program and is backed
by the full faith and credit of the United States. The details of the FDIC guarantee are provided
in the FDIC s regulations, 12 CFR Part 370, and at the FDIC s website, www.fdic.gov/tlgp. The
expiration date of the FDIC s guarantee is the earlier of the maturity date of this debt or June
30, 2012.   The italicized portion of the above provision shall be included exactly as written
above 

Representative 

The  insert name of the: trustee, administrative agent, paying agent or other fiduciary or
agent to be designated as the duly authorized representative of the debt holders  is designated
under this Agreement as the duly authorized representative of the holder s  for purposes of making
claims and taking other permitted or required actions under the Debt Guarantee Program (the
  Representative  ). Any holder may elect not to be represented by the Representative by
providing written notice of such election to the Representative.

Subrogation 

The FDIC shall be subrogated to all of the rights of the holder s  and the Representative, if
there shall be one, under this Agreement against the Issuer in respect of any amounts paid to the
holder s , or for the benefit of the holder s , by the FDIC pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program.

Agreement to Execute Assignment upon Guarantee Payment 

If there is a Representative, insert the following: 

The holder s  hereby authorize the Representative, at such time as the FDIC shall commence
making any guarantee payments to the Representative for the benefit of the holder s  pursuant to
the Debt Guarantee Program, to execute an assignment in the form attached to this Agreement as
Exhibit            See  Annex B to Master Agreement   pursuant to which the Representative shall
assign to the FDIC its right as Representative to receive any and all payments from the Issuer
under this Agreement on behalf of the holder s . The Issuer hereby consents and agrees that the
FDIC is an acceptable transferee for all or any portion of the indebtedness hereunder for all
purposes of this Agreement and upon any such assignment, the

TLGP M aster  A greement  11/24/08

FDIC shall be deemed a holder under this Agreement for all purposes hereof, and the Issuer hereby
agrees to take such reasonable steps as are necessary to comply with any relevant provision of this
Agreement as a result of such assignment.

or, if (i) there is no Representative or (ii) the holder has exercised its right not to be
represented by the Representative, insert the following: 

The holder s  hereby agree that, at such time as the FDIC shall commence making any guarantee
payments to the holder s  pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program, the holder s  shall execute an
assignment in the form attached to this Agreement as Exhibit            See  Annex B to Master
Agreement   pursuant to which the holder s  shall assign to the FDIC  its/their  right to receive
any and all payments from the Issuer under this Agreement. The Issuer hereby consents and agrees
that the FDIC is an acceptable transferee for all or any portion of the indebtedness hereunder for
all purposes of this Agreement and upon any such assignment, the FDIC shall be deemed a holder
under this Agreement for all purposes thereof, and the Issuer hereby agrees to take such reasonable
steps as are necessary to comply with any relevant provision of this Agreement as a result of such
assignment.

Surrender of Senior Unsecured Debt Instrument to the FDIC 

If, at any time on or prior to the expiration of the period during which senior unsecured debt
of the Issuer is guaranteed by the FDIC under the Debt Guarantee Program (the  Effective Period ), payment in full hereunder shall be made
pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program on the outstanding principal and accrued interest to such
date of payment, the holder shall, or the holder shall cause the person or entity in possession to,
promptly surrender to the FDIC the security certificate, note or other instrument evidencing such
debt, if any.

Notice Obligations to FDIC of Payment Default  

If, at any time prior to the earlier of (a) full satisfaction of the payment obligations
hereunder, or (b) expiration of the Effective Period, the Issuer is in default of any payment
obligation hereunder, including timely payment of any accrued and unpaid interest, without regard
to any cure period, the Representative covenants and agrees that it shall provide written notice to
the FDIC within one (1) Business Day of such payment default.

Ranking  

Any indebtedness of the Issuer to the FDIC arising under Section 2.03 of the Master Agreement
entered into by the Issuer and the FDIC in connection with the Debt Guarantee Program will
constitute a senior unsecured general obligation of the Issuer, ranking  pari passu  with any indebtedness hereunder.

No Event of Default during Time of Timely FDIC Guarantee Payments  

There shall not be deemed to be an event of default under this Agreement which would permit or
result in the acceleration of amounts due hereunder, if such an event of default is due solely to
the failure of the Issuer to make timely payment hereunder, provided that the FDIC is

TLGP M aster  A greement  11/24/08

A-2 

making timely guarantee payments with respect to the debt obligations hereunder in accordance with
12 C.F.R Part 370.

No Modifications without FDIC Consent 

Without the express written consent of the FDIC, the parties hereto agree not to amend,
modify, supplement or waive any provision in this Agreement that is related to the principal,
interest, payment, default or ranking of the indebtedness hereunder or that is required to be
included herein pursuant to the Master Agreement executed by the Issuer in connection with the Debt
Guarantee Program.

TLGP M aster  A greement  11/24/08

A-3 

EXHIBIT B

ASSIGNMENT 

This Assignment is made pursuant to the terms of Section 10 of the reverse of The Goldman
Sachs Group, Inc. s                        Notes due                       , CUSIP No.                        (the  Security ), between The
Bank of New York Mellon (the  Representative ), acting on behalf of the Holder of the Security who
have not opted out of representation by the Representative, and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (the
 Company , which has the meaning given such term in the Security) with respect to the debt
obligations of the Company that are guaranteed under the Debt Guarantee Program. Capitalized terms
used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned thereto in the
Security. Solely for the purpose of this Assignment,  Business Day  means any day that is not a
Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banks are required or authorized by law to be closed in the
State of New York.

For value received, the Representative, on behalf of the Holder (the  Assignor ), hereby
assigns to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the  FDIC ), without recourse, all of the
Assignor s respective rights, title and interest in and to: (a) the Security; (b) the Senior Debt
Indenture, dated July 16, 2008 (the  2008 Indenture ), by and between the Company and the
Representative, with respect to the Security; and (c) any other instrument or agreement executed by
the Company regarding obligations of the Company under the Security or the 2008 Indenture with
respect to the Security (collectively, the  Assignment ).

The Assignor hereby certifies that:

1. Without the FDIC s prior written consent, the Assignor has not:

(a) agreed to any material amendment of the Security or to any material deviation from the
provisions thereof; or

(b) accelerated the maturity of the Security.

Instructions to the Assignor:  If the Assignor has not assigned or transferred any interest in
the Security and related documentation, such Assignor must include the following representation.   

2. The Assignor has not assigned or otherwise transferred any interest in the Security;

Instructions to the Assignor:  If the Assignor has assigned a partial interest in the Security
and related documentation, the Assignor must include the following representation.   

2. The Assignor has assigned part of its rights, title and interest in the Security to
                       pursuant to the                        agreement, dated as of                       , 20   , between
                      , as assignor, and                       , as assignee, an executed copy of which is attached
hereto.

The Assignor acknowledges and agrees that this Assignment is subject to the Security and the
2008 Indenture and to the following:

1. In the event the Assignor receives any payment under or related to the Security from a
party other than the FDIC (a  Non-FDIC Payment ):

(a) after the date of demand for a guarantee payment on the FDIC pursuant to 12 CFR Part 370,
but prior to the date of the FDIC s first guarantee payment under the Security pursuant to 12 CFR
Part 370, the Assignor shall promptly but in no event later than five (5) Business Days after
receipt notify the FDIC of the date and the amount of such Non-FDIC Payment and shall apply such
payment as payment made by the Company, and not as a guarantee payment made by the FDIC, and
therefore, the amount of such payment shall be excluded from this Assignment; and

B-1 

(b) after the FDIC s first guarantee payment under the Security, the Assignor shall forward
promptly to the FDIC such Non-FDIC Payment in accordance with the payment instructions provided in
writing by the FDIC.

2. Acceptance by the Assignor of payment pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program on behalf of
the Holder shall constitute a release by the Holder of any liability of the FDIC under the Debt
Guarantee Program with respect to such payment.

The Person who is executing this Assignment on behalf of the Assignor hereby represents and
warrants to the FDIC that he/she/it is duly authorized to do so.

B-2 

******

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Assignor has caused this instrument to be executed and delivered this
   day of                       , 20   .

Very truly yours, 

ASSIGNOR  

By: 

(Signature)

Name: 

(Print)

Title: 

(Print)

Consented to and acknowledged by this                        day of                       , 20__:

THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION

By:

(Signature)

Name:

(Print)

Title:

(Print)

B-3 

</EX-4.6>

<EX-4.7>
 5
 y74032exv4w7.htm
 EX-4.7: FORM OF FLOATING RATE MEDIUM-TERM NOTE, SERIES D (TLGP)

EX-4.7 

Exhibit 4.7 

FORM OF FLOATING RATE MEDIUM-TERM NOTE, SERIES D  

(Face of Security) 

IF A GLOBAL SECURITY, INSERT   THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE
2008 INDENTURE AS DEFINED ON THE REVERSE OF THIS SECURITY AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A
DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A
SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE
NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED
CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE 2008 INDENTURE AND THIS SECURITY.  

IF DTC IS THE DEPOSITARY, INSERT   UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ( DTC ), TO THE GOLDMAN
SACHS GROUP, INC. OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY
CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE   CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY
AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE   CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY
AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF
FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF,
CEDE   CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.  

INSERT ANY LEGEND REQUIRED BY THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE AND THE REGULATIONS THEREUNDER.  

INSERT ANY LEGEND REQUIRED BY THE EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT AND THE REGULATIONS
THEREUNDER.  

THIS SECURITY IS GUARANTEED BY THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION, AND
THE RIGHTS OF THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN RIGHTS OF THE FDIC, AS AND TO THE
EXTENT INDICATED IN THIS SECURITY, INCLUDING SECTIONS 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 AND 17 ON THE
REVERSE HEREOF. 

(Face of Security continued on next page)

CUSIP No.                        

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.

MEDIUM-TERM NOTES, SERIES D 
(Floating Rate Security)

The following terms apply to this Security, as and to the extent shown below:

PRINCIPAL AMOUNT: 

SPECIFIED CURRENCY:  U.S. dollars for all payments unless otherwise specified below:

payments of principal and any premium:

payments of interest:

EXCHANGE RATE AGENT: 

ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE*: 

TRADE DATE: 

STATED MATURITY DATE: 

ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT SECURITY: 

Total Amount of OID:

Yield to Maturity:

Initial Accrual Period OID:

BASE RATE: 

CD Rate:

CMS Rate:

CMT Rate:

Designated CMT Reuters Screen Page: 

Designated CMT Index Maturity: 

Commercial Paper Rate:

EURIBOR:

Federal Funds Rate:

(Effective)/Open: 

LIBOR:

Reuters Screen LIBOR Page: 

Index Currency: 

Prime Rate:

Treasury Rate:

11th District Cost of Funds Rate:

INDEX MATURITY: 

SPREAD: 

* 
       
     This date shall be the issue date of this Security, unless there is a
Predecessor Security, in which case this date shall be the issue date of the first Predecessor security. 

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-2- 

SPREAD MULTIPLIER: 

INITIAL BASE RATE: 

MAXIMUM RATE: 

MINIMUM RATE: 

INTEREST DETERMINATION DATE(S):  as provided in Sections 3(b) through 3(k), as applicable, on the
reverse of this Security (unless otherwise specified), subject to the second paragraph under
 Payments Due on a Business Day  below

INTEREST PAYMENT DATE(S): 

INTEREST RESET PERIOD: 

INTEREST RESET DATE(S):  as provided in Section 3(a) on the reverse of this Security (unless
otherwise specified)

REDEMPTION COMMENCEMENT DATE: 

REPAYMENT DATE(S): 

REDEMPTION OR REPAYMENT PRICE(S): 

CALCULATION AGENT: 

DEFEASANCE: 

Full Defeasance:

Covenant Defeasance:

DAY COUNT CONVENTION: 

BUSINESS DAY CONVENTION: 

OTHER TERMS: 

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-3- 

Terms left blank or marked  N/A ,  No ,  None  or in a similar manner do not apply to this
Security except as otherwise may be specified.

Whenever used in this Security, the terms specified above that apply to this Security have the
meanings specified above, unless the context requires otherwise. Other terms used in this Security
that are not defined herein but that are defined in the 2008 Indenture referred to in Section 1 on
the reverse of this Security are used herein as defined therein.

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the
State of Delaware (hereinafter called the   Company  , which term includes any successor
Person under the 2008 Indenture (as defined on the reverse of this Security)), for value received,
hereby promises to pay to                       , or registered assigns, as principal the Principal Amount
on the Stated Maturity Date and to pay interest thereon, from the Original Issue Date or from the
most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or made available for payment, on
the Interest Payment Date(s) in each year, commencing on the first such date that is at least
15 calendar days after the Original Issue Date, and at the Maturity of the principal hereof, at a
rate per annum determined in accordance with the applicable provisions of Section 3 on the reverse
hereof, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for
payment. Any premium and any such installment of interest that is
overdue at any time shall also bear interest (to the extent that the
payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable) at the rate
per annum at which the principal then bears interest, from the date
any such overdue amount first becomes due until it is paid or made
available for payment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, interest on any
principal, premium or installment of interest that is overdue shall
be payable on demand.

The interest so payable, and punctually paid or made available for payment, on any Interest
Payment Date will, as provided in the 2008 Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this
Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the
15 th  calendar day (whether or not a Business Day, as such term is defined in
Section 3(o) on the reverse hereof) next preceding such Interest Payment Date (a   Regular
Record Date    provided ,  however , if this Security is a Global Security, a
Regular Record Date will instead occur on the fifth Business Day preceding such Interest Payment
Date. Any interest so payable, but not punctually paid or made available for payment, on any
Interest Payment Date will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date
and such Defaulted Interest may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or
more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for
the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to
the Holder of this Security not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid in
any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which
this Security may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more
fully provided in the 2008 Indenture. For the purpose of determining a Holder at the close of
business on any relevant record date when business is not conducted, the close of business will
mean 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on that day.

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-4- 

The Company and the Trustee acknowledge that the Company has not opted out of the debt
guarantee program (the  Debt Guarantee Program ) established by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation ( FDIC ) under its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. As a result,  this debt is
guaranteed under the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program and is backed by the full faith and
credit of the United States. The details of the FDIC guarantee are provided in the FDIC s
regulations, 12 CFR Part 370, and at the FDIC s website, www.fdic.gov/tlgp. The expiration date of
the FDIC s guarantee is the earlier of the maturity date of this debt or June 30, 2012 .

The Trustee is hereby designated as the duly authorized representative of the Holder for
purposes of making claims and taking other permitted or required actions under the Debt Guarantee
Program (the   Representative  ). The Holder of this Security may elect not to be
represented by the Representative with respect to this Security by providing written notice of such
election to the Representative.

Notwithstanding any provision of this Security, any right of the Holder to receive payment in
respect of this Security under the Debt Guarantee Program shall be subject to the procedures and
other requirements of the Debt Guarantee Program, and the Holder will not be entitled under the
Debt Guarantee Program to receive any additional interest or penalty amounts on account of any
default or resulting delay in payment in respect of this Security.

Currency of Payment  

Payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security will be made in
the Specified Currency for such payment, except as provided in this and the next three paragraphs.
The Specified Currency for any payment shall be the currency specified as such on the face of this
Security unless, at the time of such payment, such currency is not legal tender for the payment of
public and private debts in the country issuing such currency on the Original Issue Date, in which
case the Specified Currency for such payment shall be such coin or currency as at the time of such
payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts in such country, except as
provided in the next sentence. If the euro is specified on the face of this Security as the
Specified Currency for any payment, the Specified Currency for such payment shall be such coin or
currency as at the time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts in
all EMU Countries (as defined in Section 3(o) on the reverse hereof),  provided  that, if on
any day there are not at least two EMU Countries, or if on any day there are at least two EMU
Countries but no coin or currency is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts in
all EMU Countries, then the Specified Currency for such payment shall be deemed not to be available
to the Company on such day.

Except as provided in the next paragraph, any payment to be made on this Security in a
Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars will be made in U.S. dollars if the Person entitled to
receive such payment transmits a written request for such payment

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-5- 

to be made in U.S. dollars to the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: Corporate
Trust Administration, on or before the fifth Business Day before the payment is to be made. Such
written request may be mailed, hand delivered, telecopied or delivered in any other manner approved
by the Trustee. Any such request made with respect to any payment on this Security payable to a
particular Holder will remain in effect for all later payments on this Security payable to such
Holder, unless such request is revoked on or before the fifth Business Day before a payment is to
be made, in which case such revocation shall be effective for such and all later payments. In the
case of any payment of interest payable on an Interest Payment Date, such written request must be
made by the Person who is the registered Holder of this Security on the relevant Regular Record
Date.

The U.S. dollar amount of any payment made pursuant to the immediately preceding paragraph
will be determined by the Exchange Rate Agent based upon the highest bid quotation received by the
Exchange Rate Agent as of 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on the second Business Day preceding the
applicable payment date, from three (or, if three are not available, then two) recognized foreign
exchange dealers selected by the Exchange Rate Agent in The City of New York, in each case for the
purchase by the quoting dealer, for U.S. dollars and for settlement on such payment date of an
amount of such Specified Currency for such payment equal to the aggregate amount of such Specified
Currency payable on such payment date to all Holders of this Security who elect to receive U.S.
dollar payments on such payment date, and at which the applicable dealer commits to execute a
contract. If the Exchange Rate Agent determines that two such bid quotations are not available on
such second Business Day, such payment will be made in the Specified Currency for such payment.
All currency exchange costs associated with any payment in U.S. dollars on this Security will be
borne by the Holder entitled to receive such payment, by deduction from such payment.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount payable on this Security is payable on any day
(including at Maturity) in a Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars, and if such Specified
Currency is not available to the Company on the two Business Days before such day, due to the
imposition of exchange controls, disruption in a currency market or any other circumstances beyond
the control of the Company, the Company will be entitled to satisfy its obligation to pay such
amount in such Specified Currency by making such payment in U.S. dollars. The amount of such
payment in U.S. dollars shall be determined by the Exchange Rate Agent on the basis of the noon
buying rate for cable transfers in The City of New York, for such Specified Currency (the
  Exchange Rate  ) as of the latest day before the day on which such payment is to be made.
Any payment made under such circumstances in U.S. dollars where the required payment is in other
than U.S. dollars will not constitute an Event of Default under the 2008 Indenture or this
Security.

Manner of Payment   U.S. Dollars  

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-6- 

Except as provided in the next paragraph, payment of any amount payable on this Security in
U.S. dollars will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in The
City of New York (or at any other office or agency maintained by the Company for that purpose),
against surrender of this Security in the case of any payment due at the Maturity of the principal
hereof (other than any payment of interest that first becomes due on an Interest Payment Date);
 provided ,  however , that, at the option of the Company and subject to the next
paragraph, payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled
thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.

Payment of any amount payable on this Security in U.S. dollars will be made by wire transfer
of immediately available funds to an account maintained by the payee with a bank located in the
Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, if (i) the principal of this Security is at least
$1,000,000 (or the equivalent in another currency) and (ii) the Holder entitled to receive such
payment transmits a written request for such payment to be made in such manner to the Trustee at
its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, on or before the fifth
Business Day before the day on which such payment is to be made;  provided  that, in the case
of any such payment due at the Maturity of the principal hereof (other than any payment of interest
that first becomes due on an Interest Payment Date), this Security must be surrendered at the
office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in The City of New York (or at any
other office or agency maintained by the Company for that purpose) in time for the Paying Agent to
make such payment in such funds in accordance with its normal procedures. Any such request made
with respect to any payment on this Security payable to a particular Holder will remain in effect
for all later payments on this Security payable to such Holder, unless such request is revoked on
or before the fifth Business Day before a payment is to be made, in which case such revocation
shall be effective for such payment and all later payments. In the case of any payment of interest
payable on an Interest Payment Date, such written request must be made by the Person who is the
registered Holder of this Security on the relevant Regular Record Date. The Company will pay any
administrative costs imposed by banks in connection with making payments by wire transfer with
respect to this Security, but any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed upon any
payment will be borne by the Holder of this Security and may be deducted from the payment by the
Company or the Paying Agent.

Manner of Payment   Other Specified Currencies  

Payment of any amount payable on this Security in a Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars
will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to such account as is maintained in
such Specified Currency at a bank or other financial institution acceptable to the Company and the
Trustee and as shall have been designated at least five Business Days prior to the applicable
payment date by the Person entitled to receive such payment;  provided  that, in the case of
any such payment due at the Maturity of the principal hereof (other than any payment of interest
that first becomes due on an

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-7- 

Interest Payment Date), this Security must be surrendered at the office or agency of the
Company maintained for that purpose in The City of New York (or at any other office or agency
maintained by the Company for that purpose) in time for the Paying Agent to make such payment in
such funds in accordance with its normal procedures. Such account designation shall be made by
transmitting the appropriate information to the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office in the
Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, by mail, hand delivery, telecopier or in any other
manner approved by the Trustee. Unless revoked, any such account designation made with respect to
this Security by the Holder hereof will remain in effect with respect to any further payments with
respect to this Security payable to such Holder. If a payment in a Specified Currency other than
U.S. dollars with respect to this Security cannot be made by wire transfer because the required
account designation has not been received by the Trustee on or before the requisite date or for any
other reason, the Company will cause a notice to be given to the Holder of this Security at its
registered address requesting an account designation pursuant to which such wire transfer can be
made and such payment will be made within five Business Days after the Trustee s receipt of such a
designation meeting the requirements specified above, with the same force and effect as if made on
the due date. The Company will pay any administrative costs imposed by banks in connection with
making payments by wire transfer with respect to this Security, but any tax, assessment or other
governmental charge imposed upon any payment will be borne by the Holder of this Security and may
be deducted from the payment by the Company or the Paying Agent.

Manner of Payment   Global Securities  

Notwithstanding any provision of this Security or the 2008 Indenture, if this Security is a
Global Security, the Company may make any and all payments of principal, premium and interest on
this Security pursuant to the Applicable Procedures of the Depositary for this Security as
permitted in the 2008 Indenture.

Payments Due on a Business Day  

Notwithstanding any provision of this Security or the 2008 Indenture, if the Maturity of the
principal hereof occurs on a day that is not a Business Day, any amount of principal, premium or
interest that would otherwise be due on this Security on such day (the   Specified Day  ) may
be paid or made available for payment on the Business Day that is next succeeding the Specified Day
with the same force and effect as if such amount were paid on the Specified Day, and no interest
will accrue on the amount so payable for the period from the Specified Day to such next succeeding
Business Day.

As specified on the face of this Security, one of the following Business Day Conventions shall
apply to any relevant date other than one that falls on the date of Maturity of the principal
hereof. If any such date would otherwise fall on a day that is not a Business Day:

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-8- 

(i) if the Business Day Convention is   Following  , then such date will be
postponed to the next day that is a Business Day;

(ii) if the Business Day Convention is   Modified Following  , then such date
will be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day;  provided  that, if such
next succeeding Business Day falls in the next calendar month, then such date will be
advanced to the immediately preceding Business Day;

(iii) if the Business Day Convention is   Following Unadjusted  , any payment
due on such date will be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day;  provided 
that interest due with respect to such Interest Payment Date shall not accrue from and
including such Interest Payment Date to and including such next succeeding Business Day;
and

(iv) if the Business Day Convention is   Modified Following Unadjusted  , any
payment due on such date will be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day;
 provided  that interest due with respect to such Interest Payment Date shall not
accrue from and including such Interest Payment Date to and including such next succeeding
Business Day, and  provided   further  that, if such next succeeding Business
Day would fall in the next succeeding calendar month, the date of payment with respect to
such Interest Payment Date will instead be advanced to the immediately preceding Business
Day.

The provisions of the two immediately preceding paragraphs shall apply to this Security in
lieu of the provisions of Section 1.13 of the 2008 Indenture.

Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse
hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at
this place.

Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to
on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under
the 2008 Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-9- 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.

Dated:

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

This is one of the Securities of the series designated herein and referred to in the 2008
Indenture.

Dated:

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON, as Trustee 

By:   

Authorized Signatory  

(Reverse of Security)

1.   Securities and Indenture  

This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called
the   Securities  ) issued and to be issued in one or more series under a Senior Debt
Indenture, dated as of July 16, 2008 (herein called the   2008 Indenture  , which term shall
have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and The Bank of New York
Mellon, as Trustee (herein called the   Trustee  , which term includes any successor trustee
under the 2008 Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the 2008 Indenture for a statement of
the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the
Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are
to be, authenticated and delivered.

2.   Series and Denominations  

This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited to an aggregate
principal amount (or the equivalent thereof in any other currency or currencies or currency units)
as shall be determined and may be increased from time to time by the Company. References herein to
 this series  mean the series of Securities designated on the face hereof.

The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in
  Authorized Denominations  , which term shall have the following meaning. For each Security
of this series having a principal amount payable in U.S. dollars, the Authorized Denominations
shall be $1,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. For each Security of this
series having a principal amount payable in a Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars, the
Authorized Denominations shall be the amount of such Specified Currency equivalent, at the Exchange
Rate on the first Business Day next preceding the date on which the Company accepts the offer to
purchase such Security, to $1,000 or any integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.

3.   Interest Rate  

(a)    Interest Rate Reset   . The interest rate on this Security will be reset from time
to time, as provided in this Section 3, and each date upon which such rate is reset as so provided
is hereinafter called an   Interest Reset Date  . Unless otherwise specified on the face
hereof, the Interest Reset Dates with respect to this Security will be as follows:

(i) if the Interest Reset Period is daily, each Business Day;

(ii) if the Interest Reset Period is weekly and the Base Rate is not the Treasury
Rate, the Wednesday of each week;

(Reverse
of Security continued on next page)

-11- 

(iii) if the Interest Reset Period is weekly and the Base Rate is the Treasury Rate,
except as otherwise provided in the definition of  Treasury Interest Determination Date  in
Section 3(o) below, the Tuesday of each week;

(iv) if the Interest Reset Period is monthly, the third Wednesday of each month;

(v) if the Interest Reset Period is quarterly, the third Wednesday of each March,
June, September and December;

(vi) if the Interest Reset Period is semi-annual, the third Wednesday of each of two
months in each year specified under  Interest Reset Period  on the face hereof; and

(vii) if the Interest Reset Period is annual, the third Wednesday of the month in each
year specified under  Interest Reset Period  on the face hereof;

provided ,  however , that (x) the Base Rate in effect from and including the Original
Issue Date to but excluding the initial Interest Reset Date will be the Initial Base Rate and
(y) if the Interest Reset Period is daily or weekly, the Base Rate in effect for each day following
the second Business Day immediately prior to an Interest Payment Date to but excluding such
Interest Payment Date, and for each day following the second Business Day immediately prior to the
day of Maturity of the principal hereof to but excluding such day of Maturity, will be the Base
Rate in effect on such applicable second Business Day; and  provided ,  further , if so
specified, that any Interest Reset Date shall be subject to adjustment as provided in the second
paragraph under the heading  Payments Due on a Business Day  on the face of this Security.

Subject to applicable provisions of law and except as otherwise specified herein, on each
Interest Reset Date the interest rate on this Security shall be the rate determined in accordance
with such of the following Sections 3(b) through 3(k) as provide for determination of the Base Rate
for this Security. The Calculation Agent shall determine the interest rate of this Security in
accordance with the applicable Section below.

Unless the Base Rate is LIBOR or EURIBOR, the Calculation Agent will determine the interest
rate of this Security that takes effect on any Interest Reset Date on a day no later than the
Calculation Date (as defined in Section 3(o) below) corresponding to such Interest Reset Date.
However, the Calculation Agent need not wait until the Calculation Date to determine such interest
rate if the rate information it needs to make such determination in the manner specified in the
applicable provisions of Sections 3(b) through 3(k) hereof is available from the relevant sources
specified in such applicable provisions.

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-12- 

Upon request of the Holder to the Calculation Agent, the Calculation Agent will provide the
interest rate then in effect on this Security and, if determined, the interest rate that will
become effective on the next Interest Reset Date.

(b)    Determination of CD Rate   . If the Base Rate specified on the face hereof is the CD
Rate, the Base Rate that takes effect on any Interest Reset Date shall equal the rate, on the
second Business Day immediately preceding such Interest Reset Date (the   CD Interest
Determination Date  ), for negotiable U.S. dollar certificates of deposit having the Index
Maturity as published in H.15(519) (as defined in Section 3(o) below) opposite the heading  CDs
(secondary market) . If the CD Rate cannot be determined as described above, the following
procedures will apply in determining the CD Rate:

(i) If the rate described above does not appear in H.15(519) at 3:00 P.M., New York
City time, on the Calculation Date corresponding to such CD Interest Determination Date
(unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from that source at that
time), then the CD Rate shall be the rate described above as published in H.15 Daily
Update, or another recognized electronic source used for displaying that rate, under the
heading  CDs (secondary market) .

(ii) If the rate described in clause (i) above does not appear in H.15(519), H.15
Daily Update or another recognized electronic source at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on
such Calculation Date (unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate is available
from one of those sources at that time), then the CD Rate shall be the arithmetic mean of
the following secondary market offered rates for negotiable U.S. dollar certificates of
deposit of major U.S. money center banks having a remaining maturity closest to the Index
Maturity specified on the face hereof and in a Representative Amount: the rates offered as
of 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on such CD Interest Determination Date, by three leading
nonbank dealers in negotiable U.S. dollar certificates of deposit in New York City, as
selected by the Calculation Agent.

(iii) If fewer than three dealers selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as
described in clause (ii) above, the CD Rate will be the CD Rate in effect on such CD
Interest Determination Date (or, in the case of the first Base Reset Date, the Initial Base
Rate).

(c)    Determination of CMS Rate   . If the Base Rate specified on the face hereof is the
CMS Rate, the Base Rate that takes effect on any Interest Reset Date shall equal the rate, on the
second Business Day immediately preceding such Interest Reset Date (the   CMS Interest
Determination Date  ), appearing on the Reuters Screen ISDAFIX2 Page under the heading  EURIBOR
Basis-EUR  or  LIBOR Basis-EUR , for the Index Maturity specified on the face hereof, at
10:00 A.M., London time. If the CMS

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-13- 

Rate cannot be determined as described above, the following procedures will apply in
determining the CMS Rate:

(i) If the rate described above does not appear on Reuters ISDAFIX2 page under the
appropriate heading for the Index Maturity specified on the face hereof at 10:00 A.M.,
London time, on the Calculation Date corresponding to such CMS Interest Determination Date,
unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from that source at that
time, then the CMS rate will be determined on the basis of the mid-market semi-annual swap
rate quotations provided by five leading swap dealers in the London interbank market at
approximately 10:00 A.M., London time, on the CMS Interest Determination Date. For this
purpose, the semi-annual swap rate means the mean of the bid and offered rates for the
semi-annual fixed leg, calculated on a 30/360 day count basis, of a fixed-for-floating euro
interest rate swap transaction with a term equal to such Index Maturity commencing on the
CMS Interest Determination Date with an acknowledged dealer of good credit in the swap
market, where the floating leg, calculated on an actual /360 day count basis, is equivalent
to EURIBOR (in the case of EURIBOR Basis-EUR) or LIBOR (in the case of LIBOR Basis-EUR)
with a maturity of three months, as such rate may be determined as provided in Section
3(f). The Calculation Agent will select the five swap dealers in its sole discretion and
will request the principal London office of each of those dealers to provide a quotation of
its rate.

(ii) If at least three quotations are provided, the CMS Rate for the CMS Interest
Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of the quotations, eliminating the highest
and lowest quotations or, in the event of equality, one of the highest and one of the
lowest quotations.

(iii) If fewer than three quotations are provided, the Calculation Agent will
determine the CMS Rate in its sole discretion.

(d)    Determination of CMT Rate   . If the Base Rate specified on the face hereof is the
CMT Rate, the Base Rate that takes effect on any Interest Reset Date shall equal the CMT Rate on
the second Business Day immediately preceding such Interest Reset Date (the   CMT Interest
Determination Date  ).   CMT Rate   means the following rate as published in H.15(519)
opposite the heading  Treasury constant maturities , as the yield is displayed on the Designated
CMT Reuters Screen Page (as defined in Section 3(o) below) under the heading   . . . Treasury
Constant Maturities . . . , under the column for the Designated CMT Index Maturity (as defined in
Section 3(o) below):

(x) if the Designated CMT Reuters Screen Page is the Reuters Screen FRBCMT Page, the
rate for such CMT Interest Determination Date; or

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-14- 

(y) if the Designated CMT Reuters Screen Page is the Reuters Screen FEDCMT Page, the
weekly or monthly average, as specified on the face hereof, for the week that ends
immediately before the week in which such CMT Interest Determination Date falls, or for the
month that ends immediately before the month in which such CMT Interest Determination Date
falls, as applicable.

If the CMT Rate cannot be determined as described above, the following procedures will apply in
determining the CMT Rate:

(i) If the applicable rate described above is not displayed on the relevant Designated
CMT Reuters Screen Page at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on the Calculation Date
corresponding to such CMT Interest Determination Date (unless the calculation is made
earlier and the rate is available from that source at that time), then the CMT Rate will be
the applicable Treasury constant maturity rate described above    i . e ., for
the Designated CMT Index Maturity and for either such CMT Interest Determination Date or
the weekly or monthly average, as applicable   as published in H.15(519).

(ii) If the applicable rate described in clause (i) above does not appear in H.15(519)
at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on such Calculation Date (unless the calculation is made
earlier and the rate is available from that source at that time), then the CMT Rate will be
the Treasury constant maturity rate, or other U.S. Treasury rate, for the Designated CMT
Index Maturity and with reference to such CMT Interest Determination Date, that:

(A) is published by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or
the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and

(B) is determined by the Calculation Agent to be comparable to the applicable
rate formerly displayed on the Designated CMT Reuters Screen Page and published in
H.15(519).

(iii) If the rate described in clause (ii) above does not appear in H.15(519) at
3:00 P.M., New York City time, on such Calculation Date (unless the calculation is made
earlier and the rate is available from that source at that time), then the CMT Rate will be
the yield to maturity of the arithmetic mean of the following secondary market offered
rates for the most recently issued Treasury Notes (as defined in Section 3(o) below) having
an original maturity of approximately the Designated CMT Index Maturity, having a remaining
term to maturity of not less than the Designated CMT Index Maturity minus one year and in a
Representative Amount: the offered rates, as of approximately 3:30 P.M., New York City
time, on such CMT Interest Determination Date, of three primary U.S. government securities
dealers in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent. In selecting such offered
rates, the Calculation Agent will request

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-15- 

quotations from five such primary dealers and will disregard the highest quotation  
or, if there is equality, one of the highest   and the lowest quotation   or, if there is
equality, one of the lowest.

(iv) If the Calculation Agent is unable to obtain three quotations of the kind
described in clause (iii) above, the CMT Rate will be the yield to maturity of the
arithmetic mean of the following secondary market offered rates for Treasury Notes having
an original maturity longer than the Designated CMT Index Maturity, having a remaining term
to maturity closest to the Designated CMT Index Maturity and in a Representative Amount:
the offered rates, as of approximately 3:30 P.M., New York City time, on such CMT Interest
Determination Date, of three primary U.S. government securities dealers in New York City
selected by the Calculation Agent. In selecting such offered rates, the Calculation Agent
will request quotations from five such primary dealers and will disregard the highest
quotation   or, if there is equality, one of the highest   and the lowest quotation   or,
if there is equality, one of the lowest. If two Treasury Notes with an original maturity
longer than the CMT Designated Index Maturity have remaining terms to maturity that are
equally close to the Designated CMT Index Maturity, the Calculation Agent will obtain
quotations for the Treasury Notes with the shorter original term to maturity.

(v) If fewer than five but more than two such primary dealers are quoting as described
in clause (iv) above, then the CMT Rate for such CMT Interest Determination Date will be
based on the arithmetic mean of the offered rates so obtained, and neither the highest nor
the lowest of such quotations will be disregarded.

(vi) If two or fewer primary dealers selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as
described in clause (v) above, the CMT Rate shall be the CMT Rate in effect on such CMT
Interest Determination Date (or, in the case of the first Interest Reset Date, the Initial
Base Rate).

(e)    Determination of Commercial Paper Rate   . If the Base Rate specified on the face
hereof is the Commercial Paper Rate, the Base Rate that takes effect on any Interest Reset Date
shall equal the Money Market Yield (as defined in Section 3(o) below) of the rate, for the second
Business Day immediately preceding such Interest Reset Date (the   Commercial Paper Interest
Determination Date  ), for commercial paper having the Index Maturity specified on the face
hereof, as published in H.15(519) opposite the heading  Commercial Paper   Nonfinancial . If the
Commercial Paper Rate cannot be determined as described above, the following procedures will apply
in determining the Commercial Paper Rate:

(i) If the rate described above does not appear in H.15(519) at 3:00 P.M., New York
City time, on the Calculation Date (as defined in Section 3(o)

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-16- 

below) corresponding to such Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date (unless the
calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from that source at that time), then
the Commercial Paper Rate will be the rate, for such Commercial Paper Interest
Determination Date, for commercial paper having the Index Maturity specified on the face
hereof, as published in H.15 Daily Update (as defined in Section 3(o) below) or any other
recognized electronic source used for displaying that rate, opposite the heading
 Commercial Paper   Nonfinancial .

(ii) If the rate described in clause (i) above does not appear in H.15(519), H.15
Daily Update or another recognized electronic source at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on
such Calculation Date (unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate is available
from one of those sources at that time), the Commercial Paper Rate will be the Money Market
Yield of the arithmetic mean of the following offered rates for U.S. dollar commercial
paper that has the Index Maturity and is placed for an industrial issuer whose long-term
bond rating is  AA , or the equivalent, from a nationally recognized rating agency: the
rates offered as of 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on such Commercial Paper Interest
Determination Date by three leading U.S. dollar commercial paper dealers in New York City
selected by the Calculation Agent.

(iii) If fewer than three dealers selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as
described in clause (ii) above, the Commercial Paper Rate shall be the Commercial Paper
Rate in effect on such Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date (or, in the case of the
first Interest Reset Date, the Initial Base Rate).

(f)    Determination of EURIBOR   . If the Base Rate specified on the face hereof is
EURIBOR, the Base Rate that takes effect on any Interest Reset Date shall equal the interest rate
for deposits in euros designated as  EURIBOR  and sponsored jointly by the European Banking
Federation and ACI   The Financial Markets Association (or any company established by the joint
sponsors for purposes of compiling and publishing that rate) on the second Euro Business Day (as
defined in Section 3(o) below) before such Interest Reset Date (a   EURIBOR Interest
Determination Date  ), and will be determined in accordance with the following provisions:

(i) EURIBOR will be the offered rate for deposits in euros having the Index Maturity
beginning on such Interest Reset Date, as that rate appears on the Reuters Screen EURIBOR01
Page as of 11:00 A.M., Brussels time, on such EURIBOR Interest Determination Date.

(ii) If the rate described in clause (i) above does not so appear on the Reuters
Screen EURIBOR01 Page, EURIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates, at
approximately 11:00 A.M., Brussels time, on such EURIBOR Interest Determination Date, at
which deposits of the following kind are offered to prime

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-17- 

banks in the Euro-Zone (as defined in Section 3(o) below) interbank market by the
principal Euro-Zone office of each of four major banks in that market selected by the
Calculation Agent: euro deposits having the Index Maturity specified on the face hereof
beginning on such Interest Reset Date and in a Representative Amount. The Calculation
Agent will request the principal Euro-Zone office of each of these banks to provide a
quotation of its rate. If at least two quotations are provided, EURIBOR for such EURIBOR
Interest Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of such quotations.

(iii) If fewer than two quotations are provided as described in clause (ii) above,
EURIBOR for such EURIBOR Interest Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of the
rates for loans of the following kind to leading Euro-Zone banks quoted, at approximately
11:00 A.M., Brussels time, on such EURIBOR Interest Determination Date, by three major
banks in the Euro-Zone selected by the Calculation Agent: loans of euros having the Index
Maturity specified on the face hereof beginning on such Interest Reset Date and in a
Representative Amount.

(iv) If fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as
described in clause (iii) above, EURIBOR shall be the EURIBOR in effect on such EURIBOR
Interest Determination Date (or, in the case of the first Interest Reset Date, the Initial
Base Rate).

(g)    Determination of Federal Funds Rate   . If the Base Rate specified on the face
hereof is the Federal Funds (Effective) Rate, the Base Rate that takes effect on any Interest Reset
Date shall equal the rate, on the second Business Day immediately preceding such Interest Reset
Date (the   Federal Funds Interest  Determination  Date  ), as published in H.15(519)
opposite the heading  Federal funds (effective) , as that rate is displayed on the Reuters Screen
FEDFUNDS1 Page under the heading  EFFECT . If the Federal Funds (Effective) Rate cannot be
determined as described above, the following procedures will apply in determining the Federal Funds
(Effective) Rate:

(i) If the rate described above is not displayed on the Reuters Screen FEDFUNDS1 Page
at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on the Calculation Date corresponding to such Federal
Funds Interest Determination Date (unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate is
available from that source at that time), then the Federal Funds (Effective) Rate will be
the rate described above as published in H.15 Daily Update, or another recognized
electronic source used for displaying that rate, opposite the heading  Federal funds
(effective) .

(ii) If the rate described in clause (i) above is not displayed on the Reuters Screen
FEDFUNDS1 Page and does not appear in H.15(519), H.15 Daily Update or another recognized
electronic source at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on such Calculation Date (unless the
calculation is made earlier and the rate

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-18- 

is available from one of those sources at that time), the Federal Funds (Effective)
Rate will be the arithmetic mean of the rates for the last transaction in overnight, U.S.
dollar federal funds arranged, before 9:00 A.M., New York City time, on such Federal Funds
Interest Determination Date, by three leading brokers of U.S. dollar federal funds
transactions in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent.

(iii) If fewer than three brokers selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as
described in clause (ii) above, the Federal Funds (Effective) Rate will be the Federal
Funds (Effective) Rate in effect on such Federal Funds Interest Determination Date (or, in
the case of the first Interest Reset Date, the Initial Base Rate).

If the Base Rate specified on the face hereof is the Federal Funds Open Rate, the Base Rate
that takes effect on any Interest Reset Date shall equal the rate, on the Federal Funds Interest
Determination Date, as published in H.15(519) under the heading  Federal funds  and opposite the
caption  Open , as that rate is displayed on the Reuters Screen Page 5. If the Federal Funds Open
Rate cannot be determined as described above, the following procedures will apply in determining
the Federal Funds Open Rate:

(i) If the rate described above is not displayed on the Reuters Screen Page 5 at 5:00
P.M., New York City time, on such Federal Funds Interest Determination Date (unless the
calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from that source at that time), then
the Federal Funds Open Rate will be the rate for such day displayed on the FFPREBON Index
page on Bloomberg (which is the Fed Funds Opening Rate as reported by Prebon Yamane (or a
successor) on Bloomberg).

(ii) If the rate described in clause (i) above is not displayed on the Reuters Screen
Page 5 and does not appear on the FFPREBON Index on Bloomberg at 5:00 P.M., New York City
time, on such Federal Funds Interest Determination Date (unless the calculation is made
earlier and the rate is available from one of those sources at that time), the Federal
Funds Open Rate will be the arithmetic mean of the rates for the last transaction in
overnight, U.S. dollar federal funds arranged, before 9:00 A.M., New York City time, on
such Federal Funds Interest Determination Date, quoted by three leading brokers of U.S.
dollar federal funds transactions in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent.

(iii) If fewer than three brokers selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as
described in clause (ii) above, the Federal Funds Open Rate will be the Federal Funds Open
Rate in effect on such Federal Funds Interest Determination Date (or, in the case of the
first Interest Reset Date, the Initial Base Rate).

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-19- 

(h)    Determination of LIBOR   . If the Base Rate specified on the face hereof is LIBOR,
the Base Rate that takes effect on any Interest Reset Date shall be LIBOR on the corresponding
LIBOR Interest Determination Date (as defined in Section 3(o) below). LIBOR will be the offered
rate appearing on the Reuters Screen LIBOR Page (as defined in Section 3(o) below) as of 11:00
A.M., London time, on such LIBOR Interest Determination Date for deposits of the Index Currency
having the Index Maturity beginning on such Interest Reset Date.

(i) If LIBOR does not so appear on the Reuters Screen LIBOR Page, then LIBOR will be
determined on the basis of the rates, at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time, on such
LIBOR Interest Determination Date, at which deposits of the following kind are offered to
prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in that market selected by
the Calculation Agent: deposits of the Index Currency having the Index Maturity specified
on the face hereof beginning on the relevant Interest Reset Date and in a Representative
Amount (as defined in Section 3(o) below). The Calculation Agent will request the
principal London office of each such bank to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least
two quotations are provided, LIBOR for such LIBOR Interest Determination Date will be the
arithmetic mean of the quotations.

(ii) If fewer than two quotations are provided as described in clause (i) above, LIBOR
for such LIBOR Interest Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of the rates for
loans of the following kind to leading European banks quoted, at approximately 11:00 A.M.
in the principal financial center for the country issuing the Index Currency, on such LIBOR
Interest Determination Date, by three major banks in that principal financial center
selected by the Calculation Agent: loans of the Index Currency having the Index Maturity
specified on the face hereof beginning on such Interest Reset Date and in a Representative
Amount.

(iii) If fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as
described in clause (ii) above, LIBOR will be the LIBOR in effect on such LIBOR Interest
Determination Date (or, in the case of the first Interest Reset Date, the Initial Base
Rate).

(i)    Determination of Prime Rate   . If the Base Rate specified on the face hereof is the
Prime Rate, the Base Rate that takes effect on any Interest Reset Date shall equal the rate, for
the second Business Day immediately preceding such Interest Reset Date (the   Prime Interest
Determination Date  ), published in H.15(519) opposite the heading  Bank prime loan . If the
Prime Rate cannot be determined as described above, the following procedures will apply in
determining the Prime Rate:

(i) If the rate described above does not appear in H.15(519) at 3:00 P.M., New York
City time, on the Calculation Date corresponding to such

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-20- 

Prime Interest Determination Date (unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate
is available from that source at that time), then the Prime Rate will be the rate, for such
Prime Interest Determination Date, as published in H.15 Daily Update or another recognized
electronic source used for the purpose of displaying that rate, opposite the heading  Bank
prime loan .

(ii) If the rate described in clause (i) above does not appear in H.15(519), H.15
Daily Update or another recognized electronic source at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on
such Calculation Date (unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate is available
from one of those sources at that time), then the Prime Rate will be the arithmetic mean of
the following rates as they appear on the Reuters Screen USPRIME 1 Page (as defined in
Section 3(o) below): the rate of interest publicly announced by each bank appearing on that
page as that bank s prime rate or base lending rate, as of 11:00 A.M., New York City time,
on such Prime Interest Determination Date.

(iii) If fewer than four of the rates referred to in clause (ii) above appear on the
Reuters Screen USPRIME 1 Page, the Prime Rate will be the arithmetic mean of the Prime
Rates or base lending rates, as of the close of business on such Prime Interest
Determination Date, of three major banks in New York City selected by the Calculation
Agent. For this purpose, the Calculation Agent will use rates quoted on the basis of the
actual number of days in the year divided by a 360-day year.

(iv) If fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as
described in clause (iii) above, the Prime Rate shall be the Prime Rate in effect on such
Prime Interest Determination Date (or, in the case of the first Interest Reset Date, the
Initial Base Rate).

(j)    Determination of Treasury Rate   . If the Base Rate specified on the face hereof is
the Treasury Rate, the Base Rate that takes effect on any Interest Reset Date shall equal the rate
for the auction on the corresponding Treasury Interest Determination Date (as defined in
Section 3(o) below) of direct obligations of the United States (  Treasury Bills  ) having
the Index Maturity specified on the face hereof, as that rate appears on the Reuters Screen
USAUCTION10 Page or the Reuters Screen USAUCTION11 Page under the heading  INVEST RATE . If the
Treasury Rate cannot be determined as described above, the following procedures will apply in
determining the Treasury Rate:

(i) If the rate described above does not appear on either the Reuters Screen
USAUCTION10 or USAUCTION11 Page at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on the Calculation Date
corresponding to such Treasury Interest Determination Date (unless the calculation is made
earlier and the rate is available from that source at that time), the Treasury Rate will be
the Bond Equivalent

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-21- 

Yield (as defined in Section 3(o) below) of the rate, for such Treasury Interest
Determination Date and for Treasury Bills having the Index Maturity specified on the face
hereof, as announced by the U.S. Department of the Treasury.

(ii) If the auction rate described in clause (i) above is not so announced by 3:00
P.M., New York City time, on such Calculation Date, or if no such auction is held for the
relevant week, then the Treasury Rate will be the Bond Equivalent Yield of the rate, for
such Treasury Interest Determination Date and for Treasury Bills having the Index Maturity
specified on the face hereof, as published in H.15(519) under the heading  U.S. government
securities/Treasury bills (secondary market) .

(iii) If the rate described in clause (ii) above does not appear in H.15(519) at 3:00
P.M., New York City time, on such Calculation Date (unless the calculation is made earlier
and the rate is available from one of those sources at that time), then the Treasury Rate
will be the rate, for such Treasury Interest Determination Date and for Treasury Bills
having the Index Maturity specified on the face hereof, as published in H.15 Daily Update,
or another recognized electronic source used for displaying that rate, under the heading
 U.S. government securities/Treasury Bills (secondary market) .

(iv) If the rate described in clause (iii) above does not appear in H.15 Daily Update
or another recognized electronic source at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on such
Calculation Date (unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from one
of those sources at that time), the Treasury Rate will be the Bond Equivalent Yield of the
arithmetic mean of the following secondary market bid rates for the issue of Treasury Bills
with a remaining maturity closest to the Index Maturity specified on the face hereof: the
rates bid as of approximately 3:30 P.M., New York City time, on such Treasury Interest
Determination Date, by three primary U.S. government securities dealers in New York City
selected by the Calculation Agent.

(v) If fewer than three dealers selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as
described in clause (iv) above, the Treasury Rate shall be the Treasury Rate in effect on
such Treasury Interest Determination Date (or, in the case of the first Interest Reset
Date, the Initial Base Rate).

(k)    Determination of 11th District Rate   . If the Base Rate specified on the face
hereof is the 11th District Cost of Funds Rate (the   11th District Rate  ), the Base Rate
that takes effect on any Interest Reset Date shall equal the 11th District Rate on the 11th
District Interest Determination Date (as defined in Section 3(o) below) corresponding to such
Interest Reset Date. The 11th District Rate on any 11th District Interest Determination Date shall
be the rate equal to the monthly weighted average cost of funds for the calendar month immediately
before such date, as displayed on the

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-22- 

Reuters Screen COFI/ARMS Page opposite the heading  11TH Dist COFI:  as of 11:00 A.M., San
Francisco time, on such date. If the 11th District Rate cannot be determined as described above,
the following procedures will apply in determining the 11th District Rate:

(i) If the rate described above does not appear on the Reuters Screen COFI/ARMS Page
on such 11th District Interest Determination Date, then the 11th District Rate on such date
will be the monthly weighted average cost of funds paid by institutions that are members of
the Eleventh Federal Home Loan Bank District for the calendar month immediately preceding
such date, as most recently announced by the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco as
such monthly weighted average cost of funds.

(ii) If the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco fails to announce the cost of
funds described in clause (i) above on or before such 11th District Interest Determination
Date, the 11th District Rate that takes effect on such Interest Reset Date will be the 11th
District Rate in effect on such 11th District Interest Determination Date (or, in the case
of the first Interest Reset Date, the Initial Base Rate).

Any of the interest rates determined in accordance with Sections 3(b)   (k) will be adjusted
by the addition or subtraction of the Spread, if any, specified on the face hereof or by
multiplying such Base Rate by the Spread Multiplier, if any, specified on the face hereof.

(l)    Minimum and Maximum Limits   . Notwithstanding the foregoing, the rate at which
interest accrues on this Security (i) shall not at any time be higher than the Maximum Rate, if
any, or less than the Minimum Rate, if any, specified on the face hereof, in each case on an
accrual basis, and (ii) shall not at any time be higher than the maximum rate permitted by New York
law, as the same may be modified by United States law of general application.

(m)    Calculation of Interest   . Payments of interest hereon with respect to any Interest
Payment Date or at the Maturity of the principal hereof will include interest accrued to but
excluding such Interest Payment Date or the date of such Maturity, as the case may be. Accrued
interest from the date of issue or from the last date to which interest has been paid or made
available for payment shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent by multiplying the Principal
Amount by an accrued interest factor for the specified Interest Period. Such accrued interest
factor shall be expressed as a decimal and computed by  multiplying  the interest rate (also
expressed as a decimal) in effect on the applicable period by the Day Count Convention specified on
the face hereof for such Interest Period.

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-23- 

All percentages resulting from any calculation with respect to this Security will be rounded
upward or downward, as appropriate, to the next higher or lower one hundred-thousandth of a
percentage point ( e . g ., 9.876541% (or .09876541) being rounded down to 9.87654%
(or .0987654) and 9.876545% (or .09876545) being rounded up to 9.87655% (or .0987655)). All amounts
used in or resulting from any calculation with respect to this Security will be rounded upward or
downward, as appropriate, to the nearest cent, in the case of U.S. dollars, or to the nearest
corresponding hundredth of a unit, in the case of a currency other than U.S. dollars, with one-half
cent or one-half of a corresponding hundredth of a unit or more being rounded upward.

(n)    Calculation Agent and Exchange Rate Agent   . The Company has initially appointed
the institutions named on the face of this Security as Calculation Agent and Exchange Rate Agent,
respectively, to act as such agents with respect to this Security, but the Company may, in its sole
discretion, appoint any other institution (including any Affiliate of the Company) to serve as any
such agent from time to time. The Company will give the Trustee prompt written notice of any
change in any such appointment. Insofar as this Security provides for any such agent to obtain
rates, quotes or other data from a bank, dealer or other institution for use in making any
determination hereunder, such agent may do so from any institution or institutions of the kind
contemplated hereby notwithstanding that any one or more of such institutions are any such agent,
Affiliates of any such agent or Affiliates of the Company.

All determinations made by the Calculation Agent or the Exchange Rate Agent may be made by
such agent in its sole discretion and, absent manifest error, shall be conclusive for all purposes
and binding on the Holder of this Security and the Company. Neither the Calculation Agent nor the
Exchange Rate Agent shall have any liability therefor.

(o)    Definitions of Calculation Terms   . As used in this Security, the following terms
have the meanings set forth below:

Bond Equivalent Yield   means a yield expressed as a percentage and calculated in
accordance with the following formula:

where

D  equals the annual rate for Treasury Bills quoted on a bank discount basis and
expressed as a decimal; 

N  equals 365 or 366, as the case may be; and 

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-24- 

M  equals the actual number of days in the applicable Interest Reset Period. 

Business Day   means, for this Security, a day that meets the requirements set forth
in each of clauses (i) through (v) below, in each case to the extent such requirements apply to
this Security as specified below:

(i) 
       
     is a New York Business Day; 

(ii) 
       
     if the Base Rate is LIBOR, is also a London Business Day; 

(iii) 
       
     if the Specified Currency for payment of principal of or interest on this Security is other
than U.S. dollars or euros, is also a day on which banking institutions are not authorized or
obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in the principal financial center of
the country issuing the Specified Currency; 

(iv) 
       
     if the Base Rate is EURIBOR or if the Specified Currency for payment of principal of or
interest on this Security is euros, or the Base Rate is LIBOR for which the Index Currency is
euros, is also a Euro Business Day; and 

(v) 
       
     solely with respect to any payment or other action to be made or taken at any Place of
Payment outside The City of New York, is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday that
is not a day on which banking institutions in such Place of Payment generally are authorized
or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close. 

Solely when used in the third paragraph under the heading  Currency of Payment  on the face of this
Security, the meaning of the term  Business Day  shall be determined as if the Base Rate for this
Security is neither LIBOR nor EURIBOR. With respect to Section 13 of the reverse hereof and
Exhibit B hereto, the definition of  Business Day  therein shall apply.

The   Calculation Date   corresponding to any Commercial Paper Interest Determination
Date, Prime Interest Determination Date, LIBOR Interest Determination Date, EURIBOR Interest
Determination Date, Treasury Interest Determination Date, CMT Interest Determination Date, CD
Interest Determination Date, CMS Interest Determination Date, Federal Funds Interest Determination
Date or 11th District Interest Determination Date, as the case may be, means the earlier of:

(i) the tenth day after such Interest Determination Date or, if any such day is not a
Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day; and

(ii) the Business Day immediately preceding the Interest Payment Date or the date of
Maturity of the principal hereof, whichever is the day on which the next payment of
interest will be due.

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-25- 

The Calculation Date corresponding to any Interest Reset Date means the Calculation Date
corresponding to the relevant interest determination date immediately preceding such Interest Reset
Date.

Day Count Convention   means: 

(i) 
       
     if  1/1 (ISDA) , 1; 

(ii) 
       
     if  Actual/Actual (ISDA)  or  Act/Act (ISDA) , the number of days in the Interest Period
 divided  by 365 (or, if any portion of that Interest Period falls in a leap year, the  sum  of
(1) the number of days in that portion of the Interest Period falling in a leap year  divided 
by 366 and (2) the number of days in that portion of the Interest Period falling in a non-leap
year  divided  by 365); 

(iii) 
       
     if  Actual/Actual (ICMA) , the number of days in the Interest Period, including February 29
in a leap year,  divided  by 360 or, if the Specified Currency is euro or pounds sterling, the
number of days in the calendar year; 

(iv) 
       
     if  Actual/Actual (Bond) , the number of calendar days in the Interest Period,  divided  by the
number of calendar days in the Interest Period  multiplied  by the number of Interest Periods in
the calendar year; 

(v) 
       
     if  Actual/Actual (Euro) , the number of calendar days in the Interest Period  divided  by 365
or, if the Interest Period includes February 29, 366; 

(vi) 
       
     if  Actual/365 (Fixed) ,  Act/365 (Fixed) ,  A/365 (Fixed)  or  A365F , the actual number of
days in the Interest Period  divided  by 365; 

(vii) 
       
     if  Actual/360 (ISDA) ,  Act/360 (ISDA)  or  A/360 (ISDA) , the number of days in the
Interest Period  divided  by 360; 

(viii) 
       
     if  Actual/360 (ICMA) , the number of calendar days in the period, including February 29 in
a leap year,  divided  by 360 days; 

(ix) 
       
     if  30/360 (ISDA) ,  360/360 (ISDA)  or  Bond Basis (ISDA) , the number of days in the
Interest Period in respect of which payment is being made  divided  by 360, calculated on a
formula basis as follows: 

where 

Y 1   is the year, expressed as a number, in which the first day of the
Interest Period falls; 

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-26- 

Y 2   is the year, expressed as a number, in which the day immediately
following the last day included in the Interest Period falls; 

M 1   is the calendar month, expressed as a number, in which the first
day of the Interest Period falls; 

M 2   is the calendar month, expressed as a number, in which the day
immediately following the last day included in the Interest Period falls; 

D 1   is the first calendar day, expressed as a number, of the Interest
Period, unless such number would be 31, in which case D 1  will be 30; and 

D 2   is the calendar day, expressed as a number, immediately following
the last day included in the Interest Period, unless such number would be 31 and
D 1  is greater than 29, in which case D 2  will be 30; and 

(x) 
       
     if  30E/360 ,  30E/360 (ISDA)  or  Eurobond Basis , the number of days in the Interest Period
in respect of which payment is being made  divided  by 360, calculated on a formula basis as
follows: 

where 

Y 1   is the year, expressed as a number, in which the first day of the
Interest Period falls; 

Y 2   is the year, expressed as a number, in which the day immediately
following the last day included in the Interest Period falls; 

M 1   is the calendar month, expressed as a number, in which the first
day of the Interest Period falls; 

M 2   is the calendar month, expressed as a number, in which the day
immediately following the last day included in the Interest Period falls; 

D 1   is the first calendar day, expressed as a number, of the Interest
Period, unless such number would be 31, in which case D 1  will be 30; and 

D 2   is the calendar day, expressed as a number, immediately following
the last day included in the Interest Period, unless (1) such number would be 31, and
(2), if  30E/360 (ISDA)  is specified, that day is also the last day of February, in
which case D 2  will be 30. 

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-27- 

Designated CMT Index Maturity   means, if the Base Rate is the CMT Rate, the Index
Maturity for this Security and will be the original period to maturity of a U.S. Treasury security
  either 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 10, 20 or 30 years   specified on the face hereof,  provided  that,
if no such original maturity period is so specified, the Designated CMT Index Maturity will be 2
years.

Designated CMT Reuters Screen Page   means, if the Base Rate is the CMT Rate, the
Reuters Screen Page specified on the face hereof that displays Treasury constant maturities as
reported in H.15(519),  provided  that, if no Reuters Screen Page is so specified, then the
applicable page will be the Reuters Screen FEDCMT Page and  provided ,  further , that
if the Reuters Screen FEDCMT Page applies but it is not specified on the face hereof whether the
weekly or monthly average applies, the weekly average will apply.

EMU Countries   means, at any time, the countries (if any) then participating in the
European Economic and Monetary Union (or any successor union) pursuant to the Treaty on European
Union of February 1992 (or any successor treaty), as it may be amended from time to time.

Euro Business Day   means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday on
which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System, or
any successor system, is open for business.

Euro-Zone   means, at any time, the region comprised of the EMU Countries.

H.15(519)   means the weekly statistical release designated as such published by the
Federal Reserve System Board of Governors, or its successor, available through the website of the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System at
 http://www.federalreserve.gov/releases/h15/update/h15upd.htm , or any successor site or
publication.

H.15 Daily Update   means the daily update of H.15(519), available through the website
of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, at
 http://www.federalreserve.gov/releases/h15/update/h15upd.htm , or any successor site or
publication.

Index Maturity   means the period to maturity of the instrument or obligation on which
the interest rate formula is based, as specified on the face hereof.

Interest Period   means the period from and including an Interest Payment Date (or,
with respect to the initial Interest Period, the Original Issue Date) to but excluding the next
succeeding Interest Payment Date.

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-28- 

The   LIBOR Interest Determination Date   corresponding to any Interest Reset Date means
the second London Business Day preceding such Interest Reset Date, unless the Index Currency is
pounds sterling, in which case the LIBOR Interest Determination Date will be the Interest Reset
Date.

London Business Day   means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday that
is not a day on which banking institutions in London generally are authorized or obligated by law,
regulation or executive order to close and, if the Base Rate for the Security is LIBOR, is also a
day on which dealings in the Index Currency specified on the face hereof are transacted in the
London interbank market.

Money Market Yield   means a yield expressed as a percentage and calculated in
accordance with the following formula:

where

D  equals the per annum rate for commercial paper quoted on a bank discount basis
and expressed as a decimal; and 

M  equals the actual number of days in the applicable Interest Reset Period. 

New York Business Day   means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday
that is not a day on which banking institutions in New York City generally are authorized or
obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.

Representative Amount   means an amount that, in the Calculation Agent s judgment, is
representative of a single transaction in the relevant market at the relevant time.

Reuters Screen   means the display on the Reuters 3000 Xtra service or any successor
or replacement service, on the page or pages, or any successor or replacement page or pages on that
service.

Reuters Screen LIBOR Page   means the display on the Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page or
Reuters Screen LIBOR02 Page, as specified on the face hereof, or any successor or replacement page
or pages, on which London interbank rates of major banks for the Index Currency are displayed.

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-29- 

Reuters Screen USPRIME1 Page   means the display on the Reuters Screen page titled
 USPRIME1 , for the purpose of displaying prime rates or base lending rates of major U.S. banks.

The   Treasury Interest Determination Date   corresponding to any Interest Reset Date
means the day of the week in which such Interest Reset Date falls on which Treasury bills would
normally be auctioned. If, as the result of a legal holiday, an auction is so held on the Friday
in the week immediately preceding the week in which such Interest Reset Day falls, such Friday will
be the corresponding Treasury Interest Determination Date. If an auction date shall fall on a day
that would otherwise be an Interest Reset Date, then such Interest Reset Date shall instead be the
first Business Day immediately following such auction date.

Treasury Notes   means direct, noncallable, fixed rate obligations of the U.S.
government.

The   11th District Interest Determination Date   corresponding to a particular Interest
Reset Date will be the last working day, in the first calendar month immediately preceding such
Interest Reset Date, on which the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco publishes the monthly
average cost of funds paid by member institutions of the Eleventh Federal Home Loan Bank District
for the second calendar month immediately preceding such Interest Reset Date.

References in this Security to U.S. dollars shall mean, as of any time, the coin or currency
that is then legal tender for the payment of public and private debts in the United States of
America.

References in this Security to the euro shall mean, as of any time, the coin or currency (if
any) that is then legal tender for the payment of public and private debts in all EMU Countries.

References in this Security to a particular currency other than U.S. dollars and euros shall
mean, as of any time, the coin or currency that is then legal tender for the payment of public and
private debts in the country issuing such currency on the Original Issue Date.

References in this Security to a particular heading or headings on any of Designated CMT
Reuters Screen Page, H.15(519), H.15 Daily Update, Reuters Screen LIBOR Page, Reuters Screen
USPRIME 1 Page, Reuters Screen USAUCTION10 Page, Reuters Screen USAUCTION11 Page, Reuters Screen
ISDAFIX2 Page, Reuters Screen COFI/ARMS Page, Reuters Screen Page 5 or Reuters Screen include any
successor or replacement heading or headings as determined by the Calculation Agent.

4.   Redemption  

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-30- 

Unless a Redemption Commencement Date is specified on the face hereof, this Security shall not
be redeemable at the option of the Company before the Stated Maturity Date. If a Redemption
Commencement Date is so specified, and unless otherwise specified on the face hereof, this Security
is subject to redemption upon not less than 30 days  nor more than 60 days  notice at any time and
from time to time on or after the Redemption Commencement Date, in each case as a whole or in part,
at the election of the Company and at the applicable Redemption Price specified on the face hereof
(expressed as a percentage of the principal amount of this Security to be redeemed), together with
accrued interest to the Redemption Date, but interest installments due on or prior to such
Redemption Date will be payable to the Holder of this Security, or one or more Predecessor
Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant record date, all as provided in the
2008 Indenture.

5.   Repayment at the Holder s Option  

Except as otherwise may be provided on the face hereof, if one or more Repayment Dates are
specified on the face hereof, this Security will be repayable in whole or in part in an amount
equal to any Authorized Denomination ( provided  that the remaining principal amount of any
Security surrendered for partial repayment shall at least equal an Authorized Denomination), on any
such Repayment Date, in each case at the option of the Holder and at the applicable Repayment Price
specified on the face hereof (expressed as a percentage of the principal amount to be repaid),
together with accrued interest to the applicable Repayment Date (but interest installments due on
or prior to such Repayment Date will be payable to the Holder of this Security, or one or more
Predecessor Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date as
provided in the 2008 Indenture). If this Security provides for more than one Repayment Date and
the Holder exercises its option to elect repayment, the Holder shall be deemed to have elected
repayment on the earliest Repayment Date after all conditions to such exercise have been satisfied,
and references herein to the  applicable Repayment Date  shall mean such earliest Repayment Date.

In order for the exercise of such option to be effective and this Security to be repaid, the
Company must receive at the applicable address of the Trustee set forth below (or at such other
place or places of which the Company shall from time to time notify the Holder of this Security),
on any Business Day not later than the 15th, and not earlier than the 25th, calendar day prior to
the applicable Repayment Date (or, if either such calendar day is not a Business Day, the next
succeeding Business Day), either (i) this Security, with the form below entitled  Option to Elect
Repayment  duly completed and signed, or (ii) a facsimile transmission or letter from a member of a
national securities exchange or the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc., a commercial
bank or a trust company in the United States of America setting forth (a) the name, address and
telephone number of the Holder of this Security, (b) the principal amount of this Security and the
amount of this Security to be repaid, (c) a statement that the option to elect repayment is being
exercised thereby and (d) a guarantee stating that

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-31- 

the Company will receive this Security, with the form below entitled  Option to Elect
Repayment  duly completed and signed, not later than five Business Days after the date of such
facsimile transmission or letter ( provided  that this Security and form duly completed and
signed are received by the Company by such fifth Business Day). Any such election shall be
irrevocable. The address to which such deliveries are to be made is The Bank of New York Mellon,
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, 101 Barclay Street, 4E, New York, New York 10286 (or at
such other places as the Company or the Trustee shall notify the Holder of this Security). All
questions as to the validity, eligibility (including time of receipt) and acceptance of any
Security for repayment will be determined by the Company, whose determination will be final and
binding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (x) if this Security is a Global Security, the option of
the Holder to elect repayment may be exercised in accordance with the Applicable Procedures of the
Depositary for this Security at least 15 calendar days prior to the applicable Repayment Date and
(y) whether or not this Security is a Global Security, the option of the Holder to elect repayment
may be exercised in any such manner as the Company may approve.

6.   Transfer and Exchange  

As provided in the 2008 Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the
transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security
for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the
principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or
accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the
Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his or her attorney duly authorized in
writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of Authorized
Denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated
transferee or transferees.

As provided in the 2008 Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth,
Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of
this series and of like tenor, of a different Authorized Denomination, as requested by the Holder
surrendering the same.

No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the
Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge
payable in connection therewith.

Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the
Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this
Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be
overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the
contrary.

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-32- 

If this Security is a Global Security, this Security shall be subject to the provisions of the
2008 Indenture relating to Global Securities, including the limitations in Section 3.05 thereof on
transfers and exchanges of Global Securities (subject to Section 11 of the reverse of this
Security).

7.   Defeasance  

The 2008 Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness
of this Security or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this
Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the 2008 Indenture. If
so specified on the face hereof, either or both of such provisions are applicable to this Security,
as so specified.

8.   Remedies  

Sections 5.01 and 5.02 of the 2008 Indenture are hereby amended with respect to the Securities
of this series to the extent necessary to comply with Section 5.01 and Annex A of the Master
Agreement, dated November 25, 2008, as the same may be amended from time to time (the   Master
Agreement  ), by and between the Company and the FDIC, attached hereto as Exhibit A. Subject to
the immediately preceding sentence and Section 15 of the reverse of this Security, if an Event of
Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of
the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect
provided in the 2008 Indenture.

As provided in and subject to the provisions of the 2008 Indenture and subject to Section 15
of the reverse of this Security, the Holder of this Security shall not have the right to institute
any proceeding with respect to the 2008 Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee,
or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee
written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the
Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Securities of this series at the time
Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of
such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it,
and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of
Securities of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and
shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice,
request and offer of indemnity.

The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this Security for the
enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the
respective due dates expressed herein.

If so provided pursuant to the terms of any specific Securities, the above-referenced
provisions of the 2008 Indenture regarding the ability of Holders to waive

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-33- 

certain defaults, or to request the Trustee to institute proceedings (or to give the Trustee
other directions) in respect thereof, may be applied differently with regard to such Securities.

No reference herein to the 2008 Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the 2008
Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional,
to pay the principal of and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin
or currency, herein prescribed.

9.   Modification and Waiver  

The 2008 Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof
and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company, and the rights of the Holders of
the Securities to be affected, under the 2008 Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee
with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of all Securities at the time
Outstanding to be affected, considered together as one class for this purpose (such affected
Securities may be Securities of the same or different series and, with respect to any series, may
comprise fewer than all the Securities of such series). The 2008 Indenture also contains
provisions (i) permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the
time Outstanding to be affected, considered together as one class for this purpose (such affected
Securities may be Securities of the same or different series and, with respect to any particular
series, may comprise fewer than all the Securities of such series), on behalf of the Holders of all
such affected Securities, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the 2008
Indenture and (ii) permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at
the time Outstanding of any series to be affected (with each such series considered separately for
this purpose), on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive certain past
defaults under the 2008 Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder
of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of
this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange
herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this
Security.

10.   Subrogation  

The FDIC shall be subrogated to all of the rights of the Holder and the Representative under
this Security and the 2008 Indenture against the Company in respect of any amounts paid to the
Holder, or for the benefit of the Holder, by the FDIC pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program.

11.   Agreement to Execute Assignment upon Guarantee Payment  

The Holder hereby authorizes the Representative, at such time as the FDIC shall commence
making any guarantee payments to the Representative for the benefit of the Holder pursuant to the
Debt Guarantee Program, to execute an assignment in the form

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-34- 

attached to this Security as Exhibit B pursuant to which the Representative shall assign to
the FDIC its right as Representative to receive any and all payments from the Company under this
Security on behalf of the Holder. The Company hereby consents and agrees that the FDIC is an
acceptable transferee for all or any portion of the indebtedness hereunder for all purposes of this
Security and upon any such assignment, the FDIC shall be deemed the Holder of this Security for all
purposes hereof, and the Company hereby agrees to take such reasonable steps as are necessary to
comply with any relevant provision of this Security and the 2008 Indenture as a result of such
assignment.

Section 3.05 of the 2008 Indenture is hereby amended with respect to the Securities of this
series to the extent necessary to permit the Holder, the Representative and the Company to comply
with this Section 11, Section 12 below or any other similar provision of this Security.

12.   Surrender of Senior Unsecured Debt Instrument to the FDIC  

If, at any time on or prior to the expiration of the period during which senior unsecured debt
of the Company is guaranteed by the FDIC under the Debt Guarantee Program (the  Effective Period ),
payment in full hereunder shall be made pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program on the outstanding
principal and accrued interest to such date of payment, the Holder shall, or the Holder shall cause
the person or entity in possession to, promptly surrender to the FDIC this Security.

13.   Notice Obligations to FDIC of Payment Default  

If, at any time prior to the earlier of (a) full satisfaction of the payment obligations
hereunder, or (b) expiration of the Effective Period, the Company is in default of any payment
obligation hereunder, including timely payment of any accrued and unpaid interest, without regard
to any cure period, the Representative covenants and agrees that it shall provide written notice to
the FDIC within one (1) Business Day of such payment default. Solely for the purpose of this
Section 13,  Business Day  means any day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banks
are required or authorized by law to be closed in the State of New York.

14.   Ranking  

Any indebtedness of the Company to the FDIC arising under Section 2.03 of the Master Agreement
will constitute a senior unsecured general obligation of the Company, ranking pari passu with any
indebtedness hereunder.

15.   No Event of Default during Time of Timely FDIC Guarantee
Payments  

There shall not be deemed to be an Event of Default under this Security or the 2008 Indenture
which would permit or result in the acceleration of amounts due

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-35- 

hereunder, if such an Event of Default is due solely to the failure of the Company to make
timely payment hereunder, provided that the FDIC is making timely guarantee payments with respect
to this Security in accordance with 12 C.F.R Part 370.

The following provisions of this paragraph shall apply to this Security in addition to, and
without limiting, the foregoing provisions of this Section 15. No event that would otherwise
constitute an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series shall constitute an
Event of Default with respect to this Security, provided that, if any amounts of principal or
interest are due in respect of this Security and have not been paid (or made available for
payment), the FDIC is making timely guarantee payments of such amounts in accordance with 12 C.F.R
Part 370. As a result, upon the occurrence of any such event (including any event of the kind
specified in said Section 5.01), neither the Trustee nor the Holder of this Security shall be
entitled, with respect to this Security, to seek any remedies otherwise available, or to take any
other action otherwise provided for, under the 2008 Indenture upon an Event of Default (including
any right to accelerate the Maturity of the principal of this Security pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the 2008 Indenture, any right to exchange (at the Holder s option) this Security for a Security
that is not a Global Security pursuant to Section 3.05 thereof and any right to institute a
proceeding pursuant to Section 5.07 thereof), provided that, if any amounts of principal or
interest are due in respect of this Security and have not been paid (or made available for
payment), the FDIC is making timely guarantee payments of such amounts in accordance with 12 C.F.R
Part 370. Without limiting the foregoing, no event, including any event of the kind specified in
Section 5.01(5) or 5.01(6) of the 2008 Indenture, shall result in the automatic acceleration of the
Maturity of the principal of this Security pursuant to Section 5.02 thereof. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, however, the rights of the Holder of this Security pursuant to Section 5.08 of the 2008
Indenture shall not be affected by this Section 15. With regard to this Security, the provisions
of Article Five of the 2008 Indenture shall be subject to, and shall be deemed modified as
necessary to be consistent with, the provisions of this Section 15.

16.   No Modifications without FDIC Consent  

Without the express written consent of the FDIC, the Company and the Trustee agree not to
amend, modify, supplement or waive any provision in this Security or the 2008 Indenture that is
related to the principal, interest, payment, default or ranking of the indebtedness hereunder or
that is required to be included herein pursuant to the Master Agreement.

17.   Demand Obligations to FDIC upon the Company s Failure to Pay  

On the 30th day after the date the Company defaults in payment of interest on this Security,
which default has not been cured by the Company by such 30th day, in the case of default in
interest, or at the Maturity, in the case of default in principal of this

(Reverse of Security continued on next page)

-36- 

Security, the Representative shall make a demand on behalf of the Holder to the FDIC for
payment on the guaranteed amount under the Debt Guarantee Program. Such demand shall be
accompanied by a proof of claim, which shall include evidence, to the extent not previously
provided in the Master Agreement, in form and content satisfactory to the FDIC, of: (A) the
Representative s financial and organizational capacity to act as Representative; (B) the
Representative s exclusive authority to act on behalf of the Holder and its fiduciary
responsibility to the Holder when acting as such, as established by the terms of this Security and
the 2008 Indenture; (C) the occurrence of a payment default; and (D) the authority to make an
assignment of the Holder s right, title, and interest in this Security to the FDIC and to effect
the transfer to the FDIC of the Holder s claim in any insolvency proceeding. Such assignment shall
include the right of the FDIC to receive any and all distributions on this Security from the
proceeds of the receivership or bankruptcy estate. Any demand under this Section 17 shall be made
in writing and directed to the Director, Division of Resolution and Receiverships, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation, Washington, D.C., and shall include all supporting evidences as provided in
this Section 17, and shall certify to the accuracy thereof.

18.   Governing Law  

This Security and the 2008 Indenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws
of the State of New York. 

-37- 

CUSIP NO.                       

ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE:                       

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 
MEDIUM-TERM NOTE, SERIES D

OPTION TO ELECT REPAYMENT 

TO BE COMPLETED ONLY IF THIS SECURITY IS REPAYABLE 
AT THE OPTION OF THE HOLDER AND THE HOLDER 
ELECTS TO EXERCISE SUCH RIGHT

The undersigned hereby irrevocably requests and instructs the Company to repay the Security
referred to in this notice (or the portion thereof specified below) at the applicable Repayment
Price, together with interest to the Repayment Date, all as provided for in such Security, to the
undersigned, whose name, address and telephone number are as follows:

(please print name of the undersigned)

(please print address of the undersigned)

(please print telephone number of the undersigned)

If such Security provides for more than one Repayment Date, the undersigned requests repayment
on the earliest Repayment Date after the requirements for exercising this option have been
satisfied, and references in this notice to the Repayment Date mean such earliest Repayment Date.
Terms used in this notice that are defined in such Security are used herein as defined therein.

For such Security to be repaid the Company must receive at the applicable address of the
Trustee set forth below or at such other place or places of which the Company or the Trustee shall
from time to time notify the Holder of such Security, any Business Day not later than the 15th or
earlier than the 25th calendar day prior to the Repayment Date (or, if either such calendar day is
not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), (i) such Security, with this  Option to
Elect Repayment  form duly completed and signed, or (ii) a facsimile transmission or letter from a
member of a national securities exchange or the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc., a
commercial bank or a trust company in the United States of America setting forth (a) the name,
address and telephone number of the Holder of such Security, (b) the principal amount of such
Security and the amount of such Security to be repaid, (c) a statement that the option to elect
repayment is being exercised thereby and (d) a guarantee stating that such Security to be repaid
with the form entitled  Option to Elect Repayment  on the

38 

addendum to the Security duly completed and signed will be received by the Company not later
than five Business Days after the date of such facsimile transmission or letter ( provided 
that such Security and form duly completed and signed are received by the Company by such fifth
Business Day). The address to which such deliveries are to be made is:

The Bank of New York Mellon 
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration 
101 Barclay Street, 4E 
New York, New York 10286

or at such other place as the Company or the Trustee shall notify the Holder of such Security.

If less than the entire principal amount of such Security is to be repaid, specify the portion
thereof (which shall equal any Authorized Denomination) that the Holder elects to have repaid:

and specify the denomination or denominations (which shall equal any Authorized Denomination) of
the Security or Securities to be issued to the Holder in respect of the portion of such Security
not being repaid (in the absence of any specification, one Security will be issued in respect of
the portion not being repaid):

Date:                                            

Notice: The signature to this Option to Elect Repayment must
correspond with the name of the Holder as written on the face of
such Security in every particular without alteration or enlargement
or any other change whatsoever. 

39 

ABBREVIATIONS

The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this Security, shall
be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations.

TEN COM   as tenants in common

TEN ENT   as tenants by the entireties

JT TEN   as joint tenants with the right of survivorship
and not as tenants in common

UNIF GIFT MIN ACT                          Custodian                        

(Cust)                              (Minor)

under Uniform Gifts to Minors Act

(State)

Additional abbreviations may also be used 
though not in the above list.

40 

ASSIGNMENT

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto

PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR OTHER 
IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE

/                                            /

(Please Print or Typewrite Name and Address

Including Postal Zip Code of Assignee)

the attached Security and all rights thereunder, and hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints                                             

to transfer said Security on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the
premises.

Dated:                                             

Signature Guaranteed

NOTICE: Signature must be
guaranteed.

NOTICE: The signature to this
assignment must correspond with the
name of the Holder as written upon
the face of the attached Security in
every particular, without alteration
or enlargement or any change
whatever. 

41 

EXHIBIT A

MASTER AGREEMENT 

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  

Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program   Debt Guarantee Program  

TLGP Master Agreement 11/24/08 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

TLGP Master Agreement 11/24/08 

MASTER AGREEMENT 

THIS MASTER AGREEMENT  (this   Master Agreement  ) is being entered into as of the date
set forth on the signature page hereto by and between THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION ,  a
corporation organized under the laws of the United States of America and having its principal
office in Washington, D.C. (the   FDIC  ), and the entity whose name appears on the signature
page hereto (the   Issuer  ).

RECITALS   

WHEREAS , on November 21, 2008, the FDIC issued its Final Rule, 12 C.F.R. Part 370 (as may be
amended from time to time, the   Rule  ), establishing the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee
Program (the   Program   and

WHEREAS , pursuant to the Rule, the FDIC will guarantee the payment of certain newly-issued
 senior unsecured debt  (as defined in the Rule,
hereinafter   Senior Unsecured
Debt  ) issued by an  eligible entity  (as defined in the Rule); and

WHEREAS , the Issuer is an eligible entity for purposes of the Rule and has elected to
participate in the debt guarantee component of the Program.

ARTICLE I 
DEFINITIONS 

1.01.    Certain Defined Terms   .  As used in this Master Agreement, the following terms
shall have the following meanings:

Business Day   means any day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banks
are required or authorized by law to be closed in the State of New York.

FDIC   has the meaning ascribed to such term in the introductory paragraph to this
Master Agreement.

FDIC Guarantee   means the guarantee of payment by the FDIC of the Senior Unsecured
Debt of the Issuer in accordance with the terms of the Program.

Guarantee Payment   means any payment made by the FDIC under the Program with respect
to Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer.

Guarantee Payment Notice   has the meaning ascribed to such term in  Section
2.02 .

Issuer   has the meaning ascribed to such term in the introductory paragraph to this
Master Agreement.

Issuer Make-Whole Payments   has the meaning ascribed to such term in
 Section 2.03 .

Issuer Reports   means reports, registrations, documents, filings, statements and
submissions, together with any amendments thereto, that the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer
is required to file with any governmental entity.

Master Agreement   means this Master Agreement, together with all Annexes and
amendments hereto.

Material Adverse Effect   means a material adverse effect on the business, results of
operations or financial condition of the Issuer and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole.

Program   has the meaning ascribed to such term in the Recitals.

Reimbursement Payment   has the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 2.03.

Relevant Provision   means any provision that is related to the principal, interest,
payment, default or ranking of the Senior Unsecured Debt, any provision contained in Annex A or any
other provision the amendment of which would require the consent of any or all of the holders of
such debt.

Representative   means the trustee, administrative agent, paying agent or other
fiduciary or agent designated as the  Representative  under the governing documents for any Senior
Unsecured Debt of the Issuer subject to the FDIC Guarantee for purposes of submitting claims or
taking other actions under the Program.

Rule   has the meaning ascribed to such term in the Recitals.

Senior Unsecured Debt   has the meaning ascribed to such term in the Recitals.

1.02.    Terms Generally   .  Words in the singular shall be held to include the plural and
vice versa and words of one gender shall be held to include the other gender as the context
requires, the terms  hereof ,  herein  and  herewith  and words of similar import shall, unless
otherwise stated, be construed to refer to this Master Agreement and not to any particular
provision of this Master Agreement, and Article, Section and paragraph references are to the
Articles, Sections and paragraphs of this Master Agreement unless otherwise specified, and the word
 including  and words of similar import when used in this Master Agreement shall mean  including,
without limitation , unless otherwise specified.

ARTICLE II 
SENIOR DEBT GUARANTEE 

2.01.    Acknowledgement of Guarantee  . The FDIC hereby acknowledges that the Issuer has
elected to participate in the debt guarantee component of the Program and that, as a result, the
Issuer s Senior Unsecured Debt is guaranteed by the FDIC to the extent set forth in, and subject to
the provisions of, the Rule, and subject to the terms hereof.

2.02.    Guarantee Payments  . The Issuer understands and acknowledges that any Guarantee
Payment with respect to a particular issue of Senior Unsecured Debt shall be paid by the FDIC
directly to:

(a) the Representative with respect to such Senior Unsecured Debt if a Representative has been
designated; or

(b) the registered holder(s) of such Senior Unsecured Debt if no Representative has been
designated; or

(c) any registered holder of such Senior Unsecured Debt who has opted out of being represented
by the designated Representative;

in each case, pursuant to the claims procedure set forth in the Rule. In no event shall the FDIC
make any Guarantee Payment to the Issuer directly. The FDIC will provide prompt written notice to
the Issuer of any Guarantee Payment made by the FDIC with respect to any of the Issuer s Senior
Unsecured Debt (the   Guarantee Payment Notice  ).

2.03.    Issuer Make-Whole Payments  . In consideration of the FDIC providing the FDIC
Guarantee with respect to the Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer, the Issuer hereby irrevocably
and unconditionally covenants and agrees:

(a) to reimburse the FDIC immediately upon receipt of the Guarantee Payment Notice for all
Guarantee Payments set forth in the Guarantee Payment Notice (the   Reimbursement Payment  )
(without duplication of any amounts actually received by the FDIC as subrogee or assignee under the
governing documents of the relevant Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer);

(b) beginning as of the date of the Issuer s receipt of the Guarantee Payment Notice, to pay
interest on any unpaid Reimbursement Payments until such Reimbursement Payments shall have been
paid in full by the Issuer, at an interest rate equal to one percent (1%) per annum above the
non-default interest rate payable on the Senior Unsecured Debt with respect to which the relevant
Guarantee Payments were made, as calculated in accordance with the documents governing such Senior
Unsecured Debt; and

(c) to reimburse the FDIC for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, disbursements and
advances incurred or made by it, including costs of collection or other enforcement of the Issuer s
payment obligations hereunder. Such expenses shall include the reasonable compensation and
expenses, disbursements and advances of the FDIC s agents, counsel, accountants and experts.

Clauses (a), (b) and (c) above are collectively referred to herein as the   Issuer
Make-Whole Payments  . The indebtedness of the Issuer to the FDIC arising under this
 Section 2.03  constitutes a senior unsecured general obligation of the Issuer, ranking  pari
passu  with other senior unsecured indebtedness of the Issuer, including without limitation Senior Unsecured Debt of
the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee.

2.04.    Waiver of Defenses  . The Issuer hereby waives any defenses it might otherwise
have to its payment obligations under any of the Issuer s Senior Unsecured Debt or under
 Section 2.03  hereof, in each case beginning at such time as the FDIC has made any Guarantee

Payment with respect to such Senior Unsecured Debt and continuing until such time as all Issuer
Make-Whole Payments have been received by the FDIC.

ARTICLE III 
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF THE ISSUER 

3.01.    Organization and Authority  . The Issuer has been duly organized and is validly
existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, with the
necessary power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business in all material
respects as currently conducted, except as has not had, or would not reasonably be expected to
have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.

3.02.    Authorization, Enforceability  .

(a) The Issuer has the power and authority to execute and deliver this Master Agreement and to
carry out its obligations hereunder. The execution, delivery and performance by the Issuer of this
Master Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly
authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Issuer, and no further approval or
authorization is required on the part of the Issuer. This Master Agreement is a valid and binding
obligation of the Issuer enforceable against the Issuer in accordance with its terms, subject to
(i) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or other similar laws
now or hereafter in effect relating to creditors  rights generally and (ii) general principles of
equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity).

(b) The execution, delivery and performance by the Issuer of this Master Agreement and the
consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and compliance by the Issuer with the
provisions hereof, will not (i) violate, conflict with, or result in a breach of any provision of,
or constitute a default (or an event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute
a default) under, or result in the termination of, or accelerate the performance required by, or
result in a right of termination or acceleration of, or result in the creation of, any lien,
security interest, charge or encumbrance upon any of the properties or assets of the Issuer or any
subsidiary of the Issuer under, any of the terms, conditions or provisions of, as applicable, (X)
its organizational documents or (Y) any note, bond, mortgage, indenture, deed of trust, license,
lease, agreement or other instrument or obligation to which the Issuer or any subsidiary of the
Issuer may be bound, or to which the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer may be subject, or (ii)
violate any statute, rule or regulation or any judgment, ruling, order, writ, injunction or decree
applicable to the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer or any of their respective properties or
assets except, in the case of clauses (i)(Y) and (ii), for those occurrences that, individually or
in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse
Effect.

(c) No prior notice to, filing with, exemption or review by, or authorization, consent or
approval of, any governmental entity is required to be made or obtained by the Issuer in connection
with the execution of this Master Agreement, except for any such notices, filings, exemptions,
reviews, authorizations, consents and approvals which have been made or obtained

or the failure of which to make or obtain would not, individually or in the aggregate,
reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.

3.03.    Reports  . Since December 31, 2007, the Issuer and each subsidiary of the Issuer
has timely filed all Issuer Reports and has paid all fees and assessments due and payable in
connection therewith, except, in each case, as would not individually or in the aggregate have a
Material Adverse Effect. As of their respective dates of filing, the Issuer Reports complied in
all material respects with all statutes and applicable rules and regulations of all applicable
governmental entities. In the case of each such Issuer Report filed with or furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission, if any, such Issuer Report (a) did not, as of its date, or if
amended prior to the date of this Master Agreement, as of the date of such amendment, contain an
untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the
statements made therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading,
(b) complied as to form in all material respects with all applicable requirements of the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and (c) no executive
officer of the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer has failed in any respect to make the
certifications required by him or her under Section 302 or 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
With respect to all other Issuer Reports, the Issuer Reports were complete and accurate in all
material respects as of their respective dates.

ARTICLE IV 
NOTICE AND REPORTING 

4.01.    Reports of Existing and Future Guaranteed Debt   .  The Issuer shall provide
reports to the FDIC of the amount of all Senior Unsecured Debt subject to the FDIC Guarantee in
accordance with the reporting requirements of the Rule.

4.02.    On-going Reporting   .  The Issuer covenants and agrees that, for so long as it has
outstanding Senior Unsecured Debt that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee, it shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the FDIC (a) monthly reports, in such form as specified by the FDIC, containing
information relating to the Issuer s outstanding Senior Unsecured Debt that is subject to the FDIC
Guarantee and such other information as may be requested in such form, and (b) such other
information that the FDIC may reasonably request, such other information to be delivered within ten
(10) Business Days of receipt by the Issuer of any such request.

4.03.    Notice of Defaults   .  The Issuer covenants and agrees that it shall notify the
FDIC within one (1) Business Day of any default in the payment of any principal or interest when
due, without giving effect to any cure period, with respect to any indebtedness of the Issuer
(including debt that is not subject to the FDIC Guarantee), whether such debt is existing as of the
date of this Master Agreement or is issued subsequent to the date hereof, if such default would
result, or would reasonably be expected to result, in an event of default under any Senior
Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee.

ARTICLE V 
COVENANTS AND ACKNOWLEDGMENTS OF THE ISSUER 

5.01.    Terms to be included in Future Guaranteed Debt  . The governing documents for the
issuance of any Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee shall
contain each of the provisions set forth in  Annex A . If a particular issue of Senior
Unsecured Debt is evidenced solely by a trade confirmation, the Issuer shall use commercially
reasonable efforts to cause the holder of such debt to execute a written instrument setting forth
the holder s agreement to be bound by the provisions set forth in  Annex A . No document
governing the issuance of Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee
shall contain any provision that would result in the automatic acceleration of the debt upon a
default by the Issuer at any time during which the FDIC Guarantee is in effect or during which
Guarantee Payments are being made in accordance with Section 370.12(b)(2) of the Rule.

5.02.    Breaches; False or Misleading Statements  . The Issuer acknowledges and agrees
that (a) if it is in breach of any provision of this Master Agreement or (b) if it makes any false
or misleading statement or representation in connection with the Issuer s participation in the
Program, or makes any statement or representation in bad faith with the intent to influence the
actions of the FDIC, the FDIC may take the enforcement actions provided in Section 370.11 of the
Rule, including termination of the Issuer s participation in the Program. As set forth in the
Rule, any termination of the Issuer s participation in the Program would solely have prospective
effect, and would in no event affect the FDIC Guarantee with respect to Senior Unsecured Debt of
the Issuer that is issued and outstanding prior to the termination of the Issuer s participation in
the Program.

5.03.    No Modifications  . The Issuer covenants and agrees that it shall not amend,
modify, or consent to any amendment or modification, or waive any Relevant Provision, without the
express written consent of the FDIC.

5.04.    Waiver by the Issuer  . The Issuer acknowledges and agrees that if any covenant,
stipulation or other provision of this Master Agreement that imposes on the Issuer the obligation
to make any payment is at any time void under any provision of applicable law, the Issuer will not
make any claim, counterclaim or institute any proceedings against the FDIC or any of its assignees
or subrogees for any amount paid by the Issuer at any time, and the Issuer waives unconditionally
and absolutely any rights and defenses, legal or equitable, which arise under or in connection with
any such provision and which might otherwise be available to it for recovery of any amount due
under this Master Agreement.

ARTICLE
VI GENERAL
PROVISIONS 

6.01.    Amendment and Modification of this Master Agreement   .  This Master Agreement may
be amended, modified and supplemented in any and all respects, but only by a written instrument
signed by the parties hereto expressly stating that such instrument is intended to amend, modify or
supplement this Master Agreement.

6.02.    Notices   .  Unless otherwise provided herein, all notices and other
communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed given when mailed, delivered
personally, telecopied (which is confirmed) or sent by an overnight courier service, such as FedEx,
to the parties at the following addresses (or at such other address for a party as shall be
specified by such party by like notice):

if to the Issuer, to the address appearing on the signature page hereto

if to the FDIC, to:

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 

Deputy Director, Receivership Operations Branch 

Division of Resolutions and Receiverships 

Attention: Master Agreement 

550 17th Street, N.W. 

Washington, DC 20429 

6.03.    Counterparts   .  This Master Agreement may be executed in counterparts, which,
together, shall be considered one and the same agreement. Copies of executed counterparts
transmitted by telecopy or other electronic transmission service shall be considered original,
executed counterparts, provided receipt of such counterparts is confirmed.

6.04.    Severability   .  Any term or provision of this Master Agreement that is held by a
court of competent jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable in any
situation in any jurisdiction shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining
terms and provisions hereof or the validity or enforceability of the offending term or provision in
any other situation or in any other jurisdiction. If the final judgment of a court of competent
jurisdiction or other authority declares that any term or provision hereof is invalid, void or
unenforceable, the parties agree that the court making such determination shall have the power to
reduce the scope, duration or applicability of the term or provision, to delete specific words or
phrases, or to replace any invalid, void or unenforceable term or provision with a term or
provision that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to expressing the intention of the
invalid or unenforceable term or provision.

6.05.    Governing Law   .  Federal law of the United States shall control this Master
Agreement. To the extent that federal law does not supply a rule of decision, this Master
Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in accordance with, the laws of the
State of New York without giving effect to principles of conflicts of law other than Section 5-1401
of the New York General Obligations Law. Nothing in this Master Agreement will require any
unlawful action or inaction by either party.

6.06.    Venue   .  Each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that
any legal action arising under or in connection with this Master Agreement is to be instituted in
the United States District Court in and for the District of Columbia or in any United States
District Court in the jurisdiction where the Issuer s principal office is located.

6.07.    Assignment   .  Neither this Master Agreement nor any of the rights, interests or
obligations hereunder shall be assigned by any of the parties hereto (whether by operation
of law or otherwise) without the prior written consent of the other party, and any purported
assignment

without such consent shall be void. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Master Agreement shall
be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties and their
respective successors and assigns.

6.08.    Headings  . The headings and subheadings of the Table of Contents, Articles and
Sections contained in this Master Agreement, except the terms identified for definition in Article
I and elsewhere in this Master Agreement, are inserted for convenience only and shall not affect
the meaning or interpretation of this Master Agreement or any provision hereof.

6.09.    Delivery Requirement   .  The Issuer shall submit a completed, executed and dated
copy of the signature page hereto to the FDIC within five (5) business days of the date of the
Issuer s election to continue participating in the debt guarantee component of the Program in
accordance with the delivery instructions set forth on the signature page.

SIGNATURES BEGIN ON NEXT PAGE  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the Issuer and the FDIC have caused this Master Agreement to be executed
by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.

THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE 
CORPORATION  

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

NAME OF ISSUER:  

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:   

 /s/  David Viniar   

Name:   
     David Viniar  

Chief Financial Officer  

Address of Issuer:
85 Broad Street  
New York, New York 10004   
FDIC Certificate
Number:                         
  
RSSD ID or 
OTS Docket
Number:
2380443

Date:
11/25/08

Delivery Instructions   

Please deliver a completed, executed and dated copy of this Signature Page to the FDIC within
five (5) business days of the date of the Issuer s election to continue participating in the Debt
Guarantee Program. Email is the preferred method of delivery to MasterAgreement@fdic.gov, or you
may send it by an overnight courier service such as FedEx to Senior Counsel, Special Issues Unit,
E7056, Attention: Master Agreement, 3501 Fairfax Drive, Arlington, Virginia, 22226.

Annex A   

Terms to be Included in Future Issuances of FDIC Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Debt   

The following provisions shall be included in the governing documents for the issuance of
Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee, in substantially the
form presented below, unless otherwise specified. The appropriate name of the governing
document(s) shall be inserted in place of the term  Agreement  where it appears in this Annex A.

Acknowledgement of the FDIC s Debt Guarantee Program 

The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that the Issuer has not opted out of the debt
guarantee program (the   Debt Guarantee Program  ) established by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (  FDIC  ) under its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. As a
result,  this debt is guaranteed under the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program and is backed
by the full faith and credit of the United States. The details of the FDIC guarantee are provided
in the FDIC s regulations, 12 CFR Part 370, and at the FDIC s website, www.fdic.gov/tlgp. The
expiration date of the FDIC s guarantee is the earlier of the maturity date of this debt or June
30, 2012.   The italicized portion of the above provision shall be included exactly as written
above 

Representative 

The  insert name of the: trustee, administrative agent, paying agent or other fiduciary or
agent to be designated as the duly authorized representative of the debt holders  is designated
under this Agreement as the duly authorized representative of the holder s  for purposes of making
claims and taking other permitted or required actions under the Debt Guarantee Program (the
  Representative  ). Any holder may elect not to be represented by the Representative by
providing written notice of such election to the Representative.

Subrogation 

The FDIC shall be subrogated to all of the rights of the holder s  and the Representative, if
there shall be one, under this Agreement against the Issuer in respect of any amounts paid to the
holder s , or for the benefit of the holder s , by the FDIC pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program.

Agreement to Execute Assignment upon Guarantee Payment 

If there is a Representative, insert the following: 

The holder s  hereby authorize the Representative, at such time as the FDIC shall commence
making any guarantee payments to the Representative for the benefit of the holder s  pursuant to
the Debt Guarantee Program, to execute an assignment in the form attached to this Agreement as
Exhibit            See  Annex B to Master Agreement   pursuant to which the Representative shall
assign to the FDIC its right as Representative to receive any and all payments from the Issuer
under this Agreement on behalf of the holder s . The Issuer hereby consents and agrees that the
FDIC is an acceptable transferee for all or any portion of the indebtedness hereunder for all
purposes of this Agreement and upon any such assignment, the

TLGP M aster  A greement  11/24/08

FDIC shall be deemed a holder under this Agreement for all purposes hereof, and the Issuer hereby
agrees to take such reasonable steps as are necessary to comply with any relevant provision of this
Agreement as a result of such assignment.

or, if (i) there is no Representative or (ii) the holder has exercised its right not to be
represented by the Representative, insert the following: 

The holder s  hereby agree that, at such time as the FDIC shall commence making any guarantee
payments to the holder s  pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program, the holder s  shall execute an
assignment in the form attached to this Agreement as Exhibit            See  Annex B to Master
Agreement   pursuant to which the holder s  shall assign to the FDIC  its/their  right to receive
any and all payments from the Issuer under this Agreement. The Issuer hereby consents and agrees
that the FDIC is an acceptable transferee for all or any portion of the indebtedness hereunder for
all purposes of this Agreement and upon any such assignment, the FDIC shall be deemed a holder
under this Agreement for all purposes thereof, and the Issuer hereby agrees to take such reasonable
steps as are necessary to comply with any relevant provision of this Agreement as a result of such
assignment.

Surrender of Senior Unsecured Debt Instrument to the FDIC 

If, at any time on or prior to the expiration of the period during which senior unsecured debt
of the Issuer is guaranteed by the FDIC under the Debt Guarantee Program (the  Effective Period ), payment in full hereunder shall be made
pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program on the outstanding principal and accrued interest to such
date of payment, the holder shall, or the holder shall cause the person or entity in possession to,
promptly surrender to the FDIC the security certificate, note or other instrument evidencing such
debt, if any.

Notice Obligations to FDIC of Payment Default  

If, at any time prior to the earlier of (a) full satisfaction of the payment obligations
hereunder, or (b) expiration of the Effective Period, the Issuer is in default of any payment
obligation hereunder, including timely payment of any accrued and unpaid interest, without regard
to any cure period, the Representative covenants and agrees that it shall provide written notice to
the FDIC within one (1) Business Day of such payment default.

Ranking  

Any indebtedness of the Issuer to the FDIC arising under Section 2.03 of the Master Agreement
entered into by the Issuer and the FDIC in connection with the Debt Guarantee Program will
constitute a senior unsecured general obligation of the Issuer, ranking  pari passu  with any indebtedness hereunder.

No Event of Default during Time of Timely FDIC Guarantee Payments  

There shall not be deemed to be an event of default under this Agreement which would permit or
result in the acceleration of amounts due hereunder, if such an event of default is due solely to
the failure of the Issuer to make timely payment hereunder, provided that the FDIC is

TLGP M aster  A greement  11/24/08

A-2 

making timely guarantee payments with respect to the debt obligations hereunder in accordance with
12 C.F.R Part 370.

No Modifications without FDIC Consent 

Without the express written consent of the FDIC, the parties hereto agree not to amend,
modify, supplement or waive any provision in this Agreement that is related to the principal,
interest, payment, default or ranking of the indebtedness hereunder or that is required to be
included herein pursuant to the Master Agreement executed by the Issuer in connection with the Debt
Guarantee Program.

TLGP M aster  A greement  11/24/08

A-3 

EXHIBIT B

ASSIGNMENT 

This Assignment is made pursuant to the terms of Section 10 of the reverse of The Goldman
Sachs Group, Inc. s                        Notes due                       , CUSIP No.                        (the  Security ), between The
Bank of New York Mellon (the  Representative ), acting on behalf of the Holder of the Security who
have not opted out of representation by the Representative, and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (the
 Company ) with respect to the debt obligations of the Company that are guaranteed under the Debt
Guarantee Program. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the
meanings assigned thereto in the Security. Solely for the purpose of this Assignment,  Business
Day  means any day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banks are required or
authorized by law to be closed in the State of New York.

For value received, the Representative, on behalf of the Holder (the  Assignor ), hereby
assigns to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the  FDIC ), without recourse, all of the
Assignor s respective rights, title and interest in and to: (a) the Security; (b) the Senior Debt
Indenture, dated July 16, 2008 (the  2008 Indenture ), by and between the Company and the
Representative, with respect to the Security; and (c) any other instrument or agreement executed by
the Company regarding obligations of the Company under the Security or the 2008 Indenture with
respect to the Security (collectively, the  Assignment ).

The Assignor hereby certifies that:

1. Without the FDIC s prior written consent, the Assignor has not:

(a) agreed to any material amendment of the Security or to any material deviation from the
provisions thereof; or

(b) accelerated the maturity of the Security.

Instructions to the Assignor:  If the Assignor has not assigned or transferred any interest in
the Security and related documentation, such Assignor must include the following representation.   

2. The Assignor has not assigned or otherwise transferred any interest in the Security;

Instructions to the Assignor:  If the Assignor has assigned a partial interest in the Security
and related documentation, the Assignor must include the following representation.   

B-1 

2. The Assignor has assigned part of its rights, title and interest in the Security to
                       pursuant to the                        agreement, dated as of                       , 20   , between
                      , as assignor, and                       , as assignee, an executed copy of which is attached
hereto.

The Assignor acknowledges and agrees that this Assignment is subject to the Security and the
2008 Indenture and to the following:

1. In the event the Assignor receives any payment under or related to the Security from a
party other than the FDIC (a  Non-FDIC Payment ):

(a) after the date of demand for a guarantee payment on the FDIC pursuant to 12 CFR Part 370,
but prior to the date of the FDIC s first guarantee payment under the Security pursuant to 12 CFR
Part 370, the Assignor shall promptly but in no event later than five (5) Business Days after
receipt notify the FDIC of the date and the amount of such Non-FDIC Payment and shall apply such
payment as payment made by the Company, and not as a guarantee payment made by the FDIC, and
therefore, the amount of such payment shall be excluded from this Assignment; and

(b) after the FDIC s first guarantee payment under the Security, the Assignor shall forward
promptly to the FDIC such Non-FDIC Payment in accordance with the payment instructions provided in
writing by the FDIC.

2. Acceptance by the Assignor of payment pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program on behalf of
the Holder shall constitute a release by the Holder of any liability of the FDIC under the Debt
Guarantee Program with respect to such payment.

The Person who is executing this Assignment on behalf of the Assignor hereby represents and
warrants to the FDIC that he/she/it is duly authorized to do so.

B-2 

******

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Assignor has caused this instrument to be executed and delivered this
                       day of                       , 20   .

Very truly yours, 

ASSIGNOR  

By: 

(Signature) 

Name: 

(Print) 

Title: 

(Print) 

Consented to and acknowledged by this    day of                       , 20   :

THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION

By:

(Signature)

Name:

(Print)

Title:

(Print)

B-3 

</EX-4.7>

<EX-4.8>
 6
 y74032exv4w8.htm
 EX-4.8: FORM OF FIXED RATE MEDIUM-TERM NOTE, SERIES D (TLGP)

EX-4.8 

Exhibit 4.8 

FORM OF FIXED RATE MEDIUM-TERM NOTE, SERIES D  

(Face of Security) 

IF A GLOBAL SECURITY, INSERT   THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE
2008 INDENTURE AS DEFINED ON THE REVERSE OF THIS SECURITY AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A
DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A
SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE
NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED
CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE 2008 INDENTURE AND THIS SECURITY.  

IF DTC IS THE DEPOSITARY, INSERT   UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ( DTC ), TO THE GOLDMAN
SACHS GROUP, INC. OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY
CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE   CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY
AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE   CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY
AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF
FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF,
CEDE   CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.  

INSERT ANY LEGEND REQUIRED BY THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE AND THE REGULATIONS THEREUNDER.  

INSERT ANY LEGEND REQUIRED BY THE EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT AND THE REGULATIONS
THEREUNDER.  

THIS SECURITY IS GUARANTEED BY THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION, AND THE RIGHTS OF
THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN RIGHTS OF THE FDIC, AS AND TO THE EXTENT
INDICATED IN THIS SECURITY, INCLUDING SECTIONS 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 AND 17 ON THE REVERSE
HEREOF. 

(Face of Security continued on next page)

CUSIP No.                        

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.

MEDIUM-TERM NOTES, SERIES D 
(Fixed Rate Security)

PRINCIPAL
AMOUNT: 

STATED MATURITY DATE: 

SPECIFIED CURRENCY:  U.S. dollars for all payments unless otherwise specified below:

payments of principal and any premium: 

payments of interest: 

EXCHANGE RATE AGENT: 

INTEREST RATE:    %  per annum

INTEREST PAYMENT DATE(S): 

ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE*: 

ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT SECURITY: 

Total Amount of OID: 

Yield to Maturity: 

Initial Accrual Period OID: 

REDEMPTION COMMENCEMENT DATE: 

REPAYMENT DATE(S): 

REDEMPTION OR REPAYMENT PRICE(S): 

DEFEASANCE: 

Full Defeasance: 

Covenant Defeasance: 

OTHER TERMS: 

Terms left blank or marked  N/A ,  No ,  None  or in a similar manner do not apply to this
Security except as otherwise may be specified.

Whenever used in this Security, the terms specified above that apply to this Security have the
meanings specified above, unless the context requires otherwise. Other terms used in this Security
that are not defined herein but that are defined in the 2008 Indenture referred to in Section 1 on
the reverse of this Security are used herein as defined therein.

* 
       
     This date shall be the issue date of this Security, unless there is a Predecessor Security,
in which case this date shall be the issue date of the first Predecessor Security. 

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-2- 

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the
State of Delaware (hereinafter called the   Company  , which term includes any successor
Person under the 2008 Indenture (as defined on the reverse of this Security)), for value received,
hereby promises to pay to                       , or registered assigns, as principal the Principal Amount
on the Stated Maturity Date and to pay interest thereon, from the Original Issue Date or from the
most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or made available for payment, on
the Interest Payment Date(s) in each year, commencing on the first such date that is at least 15
calendar days after the Original Issue Date, and at the Maturity of the principal hereof, at a rate
per annum equal to the Interest Rate specified on the face hereof, until the principal hereof is
paid or made available for payment. Any premium and any such
installment of interest that is overdue at any time shall also bear
interest (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be
legally enforceable) at the rate per annum at which the principal
then bears interest, from the date any such overdue amount first
becomes due until it is paid or made available for payment.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, interest on any principal, premium or
installment of interest that is overdue shall be payable on demand.

The interest so payable, and punctually paid or made available for payment, on any Interest
Payment Date will, as provided in the 2008 Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this
Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the 15th
calendar day (whether or not a Business Day, as such term is defined in Section 3 on the reverse
hereof) next preceding such Interest Payment Date (a   Regular Record Date  
 provided ,  however , if this Security is a Global Security, a Regular Record Date
will instead occur on the fifth Business Day preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any interest so
payable, but not punctually paid or made available for payment, on any Interest Payment Date will
forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and such Defaulted Interest
may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor
Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such
Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to the Holder of this
Security not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid in any other lawful
manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which this Security may
be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in
the 2008 Indenture. For the purpose of determining a Holder at the close of business on any
relevant record date when business is not conducted, the close of business will mean 5:00 P.M., New
York City time, on that day.

The Company and the Trustee acknowledge that the Company has not opted out of the debt
guarantee program (the  Debt Guarantee Program ) established by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation ( FDIC ) under its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. As a result,  this debt is
guaranteed under the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program and is backed by the full faith and
credit of the United States. The details of the FDIC guarantee are provided in the FDIC s
regulations, 

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-3- 

12 CFR Part 370, and at the FDIC s website, www.fdic.gov/tlgp. The expiration date of the FDIC s
guarantee is the earlier of the maturity date of this debt or June 30, 2012 .

The Trustee is hereby designated as the duly authorized representative of the Holder for
purposes of making claims and taking other permitted or required actions under the Debt Guarantee
Program (the  Representative ). The Holder of this Security may elect not to be represented by the
Representative with respect to this Security by providing written notice of such election to the
Representative.

Notwithstanding any provision of this Security, any right of the Holder to receive payment in
respect of this Security under the Debt Guarantee Program shall be subject to the procedures and
other requirements of the Debt Guarantee Program, and the Holder will not be entitled under the
Debt Guarantee Program to receive any additional interest or penalty amounts on account of any
default or resulting delay in payment in respect of this Security.

Currency of Payment  

Payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security will be made in
the Specified Currency for such payment, except as provided in this and the next three paragraphs.
The Specified Currency for any payment shall be the currency specified as such on the face of this
Security unless, at the time of such payment, such currency is not legal tender for the payment of
public and private debts in the country issuing such currency on the Original Issue Date, in which
case the Specified Currency for such payment shall be such coin or currency as at the time of such
payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts in such country, except as
provided in the next sentence. If the euro is specified on the face of this Security as the
Specified Currency for any payment, the Specified Currency for such payment shall be such coin or
currency as at the time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts in
all EMU Countries (as defined in Section 3 on the reverse hereof),  provided  that, if on any
day there are not at least two EMU Countries, or if on any day there are at least two EMU Countries
but no coin or currency is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts in all EMU
Countries, then the Specified Currency for such payment shall be deemed not to be available to the
Company on such day.

Except as provided in the next paragraph, any payment to be made on this Security in a
Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars will be made in U.S. dollars if the Person entitled to
receive such payment transmits a written request for such payment to be made in U.S. dollars to the
Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, on or before the
fifth Business Day before the payment is to be made. Such written request may be mailed, hand
delivered, telecopied or delivered in any other manner approved by the Trustee. Any such request
made with respect to any payment on this Security payable to a particular Holder will remain in
effect for all later payments on this Security payable to such Holder, unless such request

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-4- 

is revoked on or before the fifth Business Day before a payment is to be made, in which case
such revocation shall be effective for such and all later payments. In the case of any payment of
interest payable on an Interest Payment Date, such written request must be made by the Person who
is the registered Holder of this Security on the relevant Regular Record Date.

The U.S. dollar amount of any payment made pursuant to the immediately preceding paragraph
will be determined by the Exchange Rate Agent based upon the highest bid quotation received by the
Exchange Rate Agent as of 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on the second Business Day preceding the
applicable payment date, from three (or, if three are not available, then two) recognized foreign
exchange dealers selected by the Exchange Rate Agent in The City of New York, in each case for the
purchase by the quoting dealer, for U.S. dollars and for settlement on such payment date of an
amount of such Specified Currency for such payment equal to the aggregate amount of such Specified
Currency payable on such payment date to all Holders of this Security who elect to receive U.S.
dollar payments on such payment date, and at which the applicable dealer commits to execute a
contract. If the Exchange Rate Agent determines that two such bid quotations are not available on
such second Business Day, such payment will be made in the Specified Currency for such payment.
All currency exchange costs associated with any payment in U.S. dollars on this Security will be
borne by the Holder entitled to receive such payment, by deduction from such payment.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount payable on this Security is payable on any day
(including at Maturity) in a Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars, and if such Specified
Currency is not available to the Company on the two Business Days before such day, due to the
imposition of exchange controls, disruption in a currency market or any other circumstances beyond
the control of the Company, the Company will be entitled to satisfy its obligation to pay such
amount in such Specified Currency by making such payment in U.S. dollars. The amount of such
payment in U.S. dollars shall be determined by the Exchange Rate Agent on the basis of the noon
buying rate for cable transfers in The City of New York, for such Specified Currency (the
  Exchange Rate  ) as of the latest day before the day on which such payment is to be made.
Any payment made under such circumstances in U.S. dollars where the required payment is in other
than U.S. dollars will not constitute an Event of Default under the 2008 Indenture or this
Security.

Manner of Payment   U.S. Dollars  

Except as provided in the next paragraph, payment of any amount payable on this Security in
U.S. dollars will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in The
City of New York (or at any other office or agency maintained by the Company for that purpose),
against surrender of this Security in the case of any payment due at the Maturity of the principal
hereof (other than any payment of interest that first becomes due on an Interest Payment Date);
 provided ,  howeve r, that,

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-5- 

at the option of the Company and subject to the next paragraph, payment of interest may be
made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in
the Security Register.

Payment of any amount payable on this Security in U.S. dollars will be made by wire transfer
of immediately available funds to an account maintained by the payee with a bank located in the
Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, if (i) the principal of this Security is at least
$1,000,000 (or the equivalent in another currency) and (ii) the Holder entitled to receive such
payment transmits a written request for such payment to be made in such manner to the Trustee at
its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, on or before the fifth
Business Day before the day on which such payment is to be made;  provided  that, in the case
of any such payment due at the Maturity of the principal hereof (other than any payment of interest
that first becomes due on an Interest Payment Date), this Security must be surrendered at the
office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in The City of New York (or at any
other office or agency maintained by the Company for that purpose) in time for the Paying Agent to
make such payment in such funds in accordance with its normal procedures. Any such request made
with respect to any payment on this Security payable to a particular Holder will remain in effect
for all later payments on this Security payable to such Holder, unless such request is revoked on
or before the fifth Business Day before a payment is to be made, in which case such revocation
shall be effective for such payment and all later payments. In the case of any payment of interest
payable on an Interest Payment Date, such written request must be made by the Person who is the
registered Holder of this Security on the relevant Regular Record Date. The Company will pay any
administrative costs imposed by banks in connection with making payments by wire transfer with
respect to this Security, but any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed upon any
payment will be borne by the Holder of this Security and may be deducted from the payment by the
Company or the Paying Agent.

Manner of Payment   Other Specified Currencies  

Payment of any amount payable on this Security in a Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars
will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to such account as is maintained in
such Specified Currency at a bank or other financial institution acceptable to the Company and the
Trustee and as shall have been designated at least five Business Days prior to the applicable
payment date by the Person entitled to receive such payment;  provided  that, in the case of
any such payment due at the Maturity of the principal hereof (other than any payment of interest
that first becomes due on an Interest Payment Date), this Security must be surrendered at the
office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in The City of New York (or at any
other office or agency maintained by the Company for that purpose) in time for the Paying Agent to
make such payment in such funds in accordance with its normal procedures. Such account designation
shall be made by transmitting the appropriate information to the Trustee at its Corporate Trust
Office in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-6- 

York, by mail, hand delivery, telecopier or in any other manner approved by the Trustee.
Unless revoked, any such account designation made with respect to this Security by the Holder
hereof will remain in effect with respect to any further payments with respect to this Security
payable to such Holder. If a payment in a Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars with respect
to this Security cannot be made by wire transfer because the required account designation has not
been received by the Trustee on or before the requisite date or for any other reason, the Company
will cause a notice to be given to the Holder of this Security at its registered address requesting
an account designation pursuant to which such wire transfer can be made and such payment will be
made within five Business Days after the Trustee s receipt of such a designation meeting the
requirements specified above, with the same force and effect as if made on the due date. The
Company will pay any administrative costs imposed by banks in connection with making payments by
wire transfer with respect to this Security, but any tax, assessment or other governmental charge
imposed upon any payment will be borne by the Holder of this Security and may be deducted from the
payment by the Company or the Paying Agent.

Manner of Payment   Global Securities  

Notwithstanding any provision of this Security or the 2008 Indenture, if this Security is a
Global Security, the Company may make any and all payments of principal, premium and interest on
this Security pursuant to the Applicable Procedures of the Depositary for this Security as
permitted in the 2008 Indenture.

Payments Due on a Business Day  

Unless otherwise specified on the face of this Security, the following sentence shall apply to
this Security. Notwithstanding any provision of this Security or the 2008 Indenture, if any amount
of principal, premium or interest would otherwise be due on this Security on a day (the
  Specified Day  ) that is not a Business Day, such amount may be paid or made available for
payment on the Business Day that is next succeeding the Specified Day with the same force and
effect as if such amount were paid on the Specified Day, and no interest will accrue on the amount
so payable for the period from the Specified Day to such next succeeding Business Day. The
provisions of this paragraph shall apply to this Security in lieu of the provisions of Section 1.13
of the 2008 Indenture.

Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse
hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at
this place.

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-7- 

Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to
on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under
the 2008 Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

(Face of Security continued on next page)

-8- 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.

Dated:

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

This is one of the Securities of the series designated herein and referred to in the 2008
Indenture.

Dated:

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON, as Trustee 

By:   

Authorized Signatory  

(Reverse of Security)

1.   Securities and Indenture  

This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called
the   Securities  ) issued and to be issued in one or more series under a Senior Debt
Indenture, dated as of July 16, 2008 (herein called the   2008 Indenture  , which term shall
have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and The Bank of New York
Mellon, as Trustee (herein called the   Trustee  , which term includes any successor trustee
under the 2008 Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the 2008 Indenture for a statement of
the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the
Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are
to be, authenticated and delivered.

2.   Series and Denominations  

This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited to an aggregate
principal amount (or the equivalent thereof in any other currency or currencies or currency units)
as shall be determined and may be increased from time to time by the Company. References herein to
 this series  mean the series of Securities designated on the face hereof.

The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in
  Authorized Denominations  , which term shall have the following meaning. For each Security
of this series having a principal amount payable in U.S. dollars, the Authorized Denominations
shall be $1,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. For each Security of this
series having a principal amount payable in a Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars, the
Authorized Denominations shall be the amount of such Specified Currency equivalent, at the Exchange
Rate on the first Business Day next preceding the date on which the Company accepts the offer to
purchase such Security, to $1,000 or any integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.

3.   Exchange Rate Agent and Related Terms  

If the principal of or interest on this Security is payable in a Specified Currency other than
U.S. dollars, the Company has initially appointed the institution named on the face of this
Security as Exchange Rate Agent to act as such agent with respect to this Security, but the Company
may, in its sole discretion, appoint any other institution (including any Affiliate of the Company)
to serve as any such agent from time to time. The Company will give the Trustee prompt written
notice of any change in any such appointment. Insofar as this Security provides for any such agent
to obtain rates, quotes or other data from a bank, dealer or other institution for use in making
any determination hereunder, such agent may do so from any institution or institutions of the

(Reverse
of Security continued on next page)

-10- 

kind contemplated hereby notwithstanding that any one or more of such institutions are such
agent, Affiliates of such agent or Affiliates of the Company.

All determinations made by the Exchange Rate Agent may be made by such agent in its sole
discretion and, absent manifest error, shall be conclusive for all purposes and binding on the
Holder of this Security and the Company. The Exchange Rate Agent shall not have any liability
therefor.

Unless otherwise specified on the face hereof, for all purposes of this Security, the term
  Business Day   means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday that (i) is not a
day on which banking institutions in The City of New York generally are authorized or obligated by
law, regulation or executive order to close, (ii) if the Specified Currency for any payment on this
Security is other than U.S. dollars or euros, is not a day on which banking institutions in the
principal financial center of the country issuing such Specified Currency generally are authorized
or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close, (iii) if the Specified Currency for
any payment on this Security is euros, is not a Euro Business Day and (iv) solely with respect to
any payment or other action to be made or taken at any Place of Payment outside The City of New
York, is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday that is not a day on which banking
institutions in such Place of Payment generally are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or
executive order to close.   Euro Business Day   means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday and Friday on which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express
(TARGET) System, or any successor system, is open for business. With respect to Section 13 of the
reverse hereof and Exhibit B hereto, the definition of  Business Day  therein shall apply.

References in this Security to U.S. dollars shall mean, as of any time, the coin or currency
that is then legal tender for the payment of public and private debts in the United States of
America.

References in this Security to the euro shall mean, as of any time, the coin or currency (if
any) that is then legal tender for the payment of public and private debts in all EMU Countries.
  EMU Countries   means, at any time, the countries (if any) then participating in the
European Economic and Monetary Union (or any successor union) pursuant to the Treaty on European
Union of February 1992 (or any successor treaty), as it may be amended from time to time.

References in this Security to a particular currency other than U.S. dollars and euros shall
mean, as of any time, the coin or currency that is then legal tender for the payment of public and
private debts in the country issuing such currency on the Original Issue Date.

(Reverse
of Security continued on next page)

-11- 

4.   Redemption  

Unless a Redemption Commencement Date is specified on the face hereof, this Security shall not
be redeemable at the option of the Company before the Stated Maturity Date. If a Redemption
Commencement Date is so specified, and unless otherwise specified on the face hereof, this Security
is subject to redemption upon not less than 30 days  nor more than 60 days  notice at any time and
from time to time on or after the Redemption Commencement Date, in each case as a whole or in part,
at the election of the Company and at the applicable Redemption Price specified on the face hereof
(expressed as a percentage of the principal amount of this Security to be redeemed), together with
accrued interest to the Redemption Date, but interest installments due on or prior to such
Redemption Date will be payable to the Holder of this Security, or one or more Predecessor
Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant record date, all as provided in the
2008 Indenture.

5.   Repayment at the Holder s Option  

Except as otherwise may be provided on the face hereof, if one or more Repayment Dates are
specified on the face hereof, this Security will be repayable in whole or in part in an amount
equal to any Authorized Denomination ( provided  that the remaining principal amount of any
Security surrendered for partial repayment shall at least equal an Authorized Denomination), on any
such Repayment Date, in each case at the option of the Holder and at the applicable Repayment Price
specified on the face hereof (expressed as a percentage of the principal amount to be repaid),
together with accrued interest to the applicable Repayment Date (but interest installments due on
or prior to such Repayment Date will be payable to the Holder of this Security, or one or more
Predecessor Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date as
provided in the 2008 Indenture). If this Security provides for more than one Repayment Date and
the Holder exercises its option to elect repayment, the Holder shall be deemed to have elected
repayment on the earliest Repayment Date after all conditions to such exercise have been satisfied,
and references herein to the  applicable Repayment Date  shall mean such earliest Repayment Date.

In order for the exercise of such option to be effective and this Security to be repaid, the
Company must receive at the applicable address of the Trustee set forth below (or at such other
place or places of which the Company shall from time to time notify the Holder of this Security),
on any Business Day not later than the 15th, and not earlier than the 25th, calendar day prior to
the applicable Repayment Date (or, if either such calendar day is not a Business Day, the next
succeeding Business Day), either (i) this Security, with the form below entitled  Option to Elect
Repayment  duly completed and signed, or (ii) a facsimile transmission or letter from a member of a
national securities exchange or the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc., a commercial
bank or a trust company in the United States of America setting forth (a) the name, address and
telephone number of the Holder of this Security, (b) the principal amount of

(Reverse
of Security continued on next page)

-12- 

this Security and the amount of this Security to be repaid, (c) a statement that the option to
elect repayment is being exercised thereby and (d) a guarantee stating that the Company will
receive this Security, with the form below entitled  Option to Elect Repayment  duly completed and
signed, not later than five Business Days after the date of such facsimile transmission or letter
( provided  that this Security and form duly completed and signed are received by the Company
by such fifth Business Day). Any such election shall be irrevocable. The address to which such
deliveries are to be made is The Bank of New York Mellon, Attention: Corporate Trust
Administration, 101 Barclay Street, 4E, New York, New York 10286 (or at such other places as the
Company or the Trustee shall notify the Holder of this Security). All questions as to the
validity, eligibility (including time of receipt) and acceptance of any Security for repayment will
be determined by the Company, whose determination will be final and binding. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, (x) if this Security is a Global Security, the option of the Holder to elect repayment
may be exercised in accordance with the Applicable Procedures of the Depositary for this Security
at least 15 calendar days prior to the applicable Repayment Date and (y) whether or not this
Security is a Global Security, the option of the Holder to elect repayment may be exercised in any
such manner as the Company may approve.

6.   Transfer and Exchange  

As provided in the 2008 Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the
transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security
for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the
principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or
accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the
Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his or her attorney duly authorized in
writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of Authorized
Denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated
transferee or transferees.

As provided in the 2008 Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth,
Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of
this series and of like tenor, of a different Authorized Denomination, as requested by the Holder
surrendering the same.

No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the
Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge
payable in connection therewith.

Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the
Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this
Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or

(Reverse of Security
continued on next page)
  -13- 

not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be
affected by notice to the contrary.

If this Security is a Global Security, this Security shall be subject to the provisions of the
2008 Indenture relating to Global Securities, including the limitations in Section 3.05 thereof on
transfers and exchanges of Global Securities (subject to Section 11 of the reverse of this
Security).

7.   Defeasance  

The 2008 Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness
of this Security or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this
Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the 2008 Indenture. If
so specified on the face hereof, either or both of such provisions are applicable to this Security,
as so specified.

8.   Remedies  

Sections 5.01 and 5.02 of the 2008 Indenture are hereby amended with respect to the Securities
of this series to the extent necessary to comply with Section 5.01 and Annex A of the Master
Agreement, dated November 25, 2008, as the same may be amended from time to time (the  Master
Agreement ), by and between the Company and the FDIC, attached hereto as Exhibit A. Subject to the
immediately preceding sentence and Section 15 of the reverse of this Security, if an Event of
Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of
the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect
provided in the 2008 Indenture.

As provided in and subject to the provisions of the 2008 Indenture and subject to Section 15
of the reverse of this Security, the Holder of this Security shall not have the right to institute
any proceeding with respect to the 2008 Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee,
or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee
written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the
Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Securities of this series at the time
Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of
such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it,
and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of
Securities of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and
shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice,
request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder
of this Security for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest
hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.

(Reverse of Security
continued on next page)
  -14- 

If so provided pursuant to the terms of any specific Securities, the above-referenced
provisions of the 2008 Indenture regarding the ability of Holders to waive certain defaults, or to
request the Trustee to institute proceedings (or to give the Trustee other directions) in respect
thereof, may be applied differently with regard to such Securities.

No reference herein to the 2008 Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the 2008
Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional,
to pay the principal of and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin
or currency, herein prescribed.

9.   Modification and Waiver  

The 2008 Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof
and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company, and the rights of the Holders of
the Securities to be affected, under the 2008 Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee
with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of all Securities at the time
Outstanding to be affected, considered together as one class for this purpose (such affected
Securities may be Securities of the same or different series and, with respect to any series, may
comprise fewer than all the Securities of such series). The 2008 Indenture also contains
provisions (i) permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the
time Outstanding to be affected, considered together as one class for this purpose (such affected
Securities may be Securities of the same or different series and, with respect to any particular
series, may comprise fewer than all the Securities of such series), on behalf of the Holders of all
such affected Securities, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the 2008
Indenture and (ii) permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at
the time Outstanding of any series to be affected (with each such series considered separately for
this purpose), on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive certain past
defaults under the 2008 Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder
of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of
this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange
herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this
Security.

10.   Subrogation  

The FDIC shall be subrogated to all of the rights of the Holder and the Representative under
this Security and the 2008 Indenture against the Company in respect of any amounts paid to the
Holder, or for the benefit of the Holder, by the FDIC pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program.

(Reverse of Security
continued on next page)
  -15- 

11.   Agreement to Execute Assignment upon Guarantee Payment  

The Holder hereby authorizes the Representative, at such time as the FDIC shall commence
making any guarantee payments to the Representative for the benefit of the Holder pursuant to the
Debt Guarantee Program, to execute an assignment in the form attached to this Security as Exhibit B
pursuant to which the Representative shall assign to the FDIC its right as Representative to
receive any and all payments from the Company under this Security on behalf of the Holder. The
Company hereby consents and agrees that the FDIC is an acceptable transferee for all or any portion
of the indebtedness hereunder for all purposes of this Security and upon any such assignment, the
FDIC shall be deemed the Holder of this Security for all purposes hereof, and the Company hereby
agrees to take such reasonable steps as are necessary to comply with any relevant provision of this
Security and the 2008 Indenture as a result of such assignment.

Section 3.05 of the 2008 Indenture is hereby amended with respect to the Securities of this
series to the extent necessary to permit the Holder, the Representative and the Company to comply
with this Section 11, Section 12 below or any other similar provision of this Security.

12.   Surrender of Senior Unsecured Debt Instrument to the FDIC  

If, at any time on or prior to the expiration of the period during which senior unsecured debt
of the Company is guaranteed by the FDIC under the Debt Guarantee Program (the  Effective Period ),
payment in full hereunder shall be made pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program on the outstanding
principal and accrued interest to such date of payment, the Holder shall, or the Holder shall cause
the person or entity in possession to, promptly surrender to the FDIC this Security.

13.   Notice Obligations to FDIC of Payment Default  

If, at any time prior to the earlier of (a) full satisfaction of the payment obligations
hereunder, or (b) expiration of the Effective Period, the Company is in default of any payment
obligation hereunder, including timely payment of any accrued and unpaid interest, without regard
to any cure period, the Representative covenants and agrees that it shall provide written notice to
the FDIC within one (1) Business Day of such payment default. Solely for the purpose of this
Section 13,  Business Day  means any day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banks
are required or authorized by law to be closed in the State of New York.

14.   Ranking  

Any indebtedness of the Company to the FDIC arising under Section 2.03 of the Master Agreement
will constitute a senior unsecured general obligation of the Company, ranking pari passu with any
indebtedness hereunder.

(Reverse of Security
continued on next page)
  -16- 

15.   No Event of Default during Time of Timely FDIC Guarantee
Payments  

There shall not be deemed to be an Event of Default under this Security or the 2008 Indenture
which would permit or result in the acceleration of amounts due hereunder, if such an Event of
Default is due solely to the failure of the Company to make timely payment hereunder, provided that
the FDIC is making timely guarantee payments with respect to this Security in accordance with 12
C.F.R Part 370.

The following provisions of this paragraph shall apply to this Security in addition to, and
without limiting, the foregoing provisions of this Section 15. No event that would otherwise
constitute an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series shall constitute an
Event of Default with respect to this Security, provided that, if any amounts of principal or
interest are due in respect of this Security and have not been paid (or made available for
payment), the FDIC is making timely guarantee payments of such amounts in accordance with 12 C.F.R
Part 370. As a result, upon the occurrence of any such event (including any event of the kind
specified in said Section 5.01), neither the Trustee nor the Holder of this Security shall be
entitled, with respect to this Security, to seek any remedies otherwise available, or to take any
other action otherwise provided for, under the 2008 Indenture upon an Event of Default (including
any right to accelerate the Maturity of the principal of this Security pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the 2008 Indenture, any right to exchange (at the Holder s option) this Security for a Security
that is not a Global Security pursuant to Section 3.05 thereof and any right to institute a
proceeding pursuant to Section 5.07 thereof), provided that, if any amounts of principal or
interest are due in respect of this Security and have not been paid (or made available for
payment), the FDIC is making timely guarantee payments of such amounts in accordance with 12 C.F.R
Part 370. Without limiting the foregoing, no event, including any event of the kind specified in
Section 5.01(5) or 5.01(6) of the 2008 Indenture, shall result in the automatic acceleration of the
Maturity of the principal of this Security pursuant to Section 5.02 thereof. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, however, the rights of the Holder of this Security pursuant to Section 5.08 of the 2008
Indenture shall not be affected by this Section 15. With regard to this Security, the provisions
of Article Five of the 2008 Indenture shall be subject to, and shall be deemed modified as
necessary to be consistent with, the provisions of this Section 15.

16.   No Modifications without FDIC Consent  

Without the express written consent of the FDIC, the Company and the Trustee agree not to
amend, modify, supplement or waive any provision in this Security or the 2008 Indenture that is
related to the principal, interest, payment, default or ranking of the indebtedness hereunder or
that is required to be included herein pursuant to the Master Agreement.

(Reverse of Security
continued on next page)
  -17- 

17.   Demand Obligations to FDIC upon the Company s Failure to Pay  

On the 30th day after the date the Company defaults in payment of interest on this Security,
which default has not been cured by the Company by such 30th day, in the case of default in
interest, or at the Maturity, in the case of default in principal of this Security, the
Representative shall make a demand on behalf of the Holder to the FDIC for payment on the
guaranteed amount under the Debt Guarantee Program. Such demand shall be accompanied by a proof of
claim, which shall include evidence, to the extent not previously provided in the Master Agreement,
in form and content satisfactory to the FDIC, of: (A) the Representative s financial and
organizational capacity to act as Representative; (B) the Representative s exclusive authority to
act on behalf of the Holder and its fiduciary responsibility to the Holder when acting as such, as
established by the terms of this Security and the 2008 Indenture; (C) the occurrence of a payment
default; and (D) the authority to make an assignment of the Holder s right, title, and interest in
this Security to the FDIC and to effect the transfer to the FDIC of the Holder s claim in any
insolvency proceeding. Such assignment shall include the right of the FDIC to receive any and all
distributions on this Security from the proceeds of the receivership or bankruptcy estate. Any
demand under this Section 17 shall be made in writing and directed to the Director, Division of
Resolution and Receiverships, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Washington, D.C., and shall
include all supporting evidences as provided in this Section 17, and shall certify to the accuracy
thereof.

18.   Governing Law  

This Security and the 2008 Indenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws
of the State of New York. 

-18- 

CUSIP NO.                       

ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE:                       

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 
MEDIUM-TERM NOTE, SERIES D

OPTION TO ELECT REPAYMENT 

TO BE COMPLETED ONLY IF THIS SECURITY IS REPAYABLE 
AT THE OPTION OF THE HOLDER AND THE HOLDER 
ELECTS TO EXERCISE SUCH RIGHT

The undersigned hereby irrevocably requests and instructs the Company to repay the Security
referred to in this notice (or the portion thereof specified below) at the applicable Repayment
Price, together with interest to the Repayment Date, all as provided for in such Security, to the
undersigned, whose name, address and telephone number are as follows:

(please print name of the undersigned)

(please print address of the undersigned)

(please print telephone number of the undersigned)

If such Security provides for more than one Repayment Date, the undersigned requests repayment
on the earliest Repayment Date after the requirements for exercising this option have been
satisfied, and references in this notice to the Repayment Date mean such earliest Repayment Date.
Terms used in this notice that are defined in such Security are used herein as defined therein.

For such Security to be repaid the Company must receive at the applicable address of the
Trustee set forth below or at such other place or places of which the Company or the Trustee shall
from time to time notify the Holder of such Security, any Business Day not later than the 15th or
earlier than the 25th calendar day prior to the Repayment Date (or, if either such calendar day is
not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), (i) such Security, with this  Option to
Elect Repayment  form duly completed and signed, or (ii) a facsimile transmission or letter from a
member of a national securities exchange or the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc., a
commercial bank or a trust company in the United States of America setting forth (a) the name,
address and telephone number of the Holder of such Security, (b) the principal amount of such
Security and the amount of such Security to be repaid, (c) a statement that the option to elect
repayment is being exercised thereby and (d) a guarantee stating that such Security to be repaid
with the form entitled  Option to Elect Repayment  on the addendum to the Security duly completed
and signed will be received by the Company not later than five Business Days after the date of such
facsimile transmission or letter ( provided  that such Security and form duly completed and
signed are received by the

-19- 

Company by such fifth Business Day). The address to which such deliveries are to be made is:

The Bank of New York Mellon 
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration 
101 Barclay Street, 4E 
New York, New York 10286

or at such other place as the Company or the Trustee shall notify the Holder of such Security.

If less than the entire principal amount of such Security is to be repaid, specify the portion
thereof (which shall equal any Authorized Denomination) that the Holder elects to have repaid:

and specify the denomination or denominations (which shall equal any Authorized Denomination) of
the Security or Securities to be issued to the Holder in respect of the portion of such Security
not being repaid (in the absence of any specification, one Security will be issued in respect of
the portion not being repaid):

Date:                                            

Notice: The signature to this Option to Elect Repayment must
correspond with the name of the Holder as written on the face of
such Security in every particular without alteration or enlargement
or any other change whatsoever. 

-20- 

ABBREVIATIONS

The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this Security, shall
be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations.

TEN COM   as tenants in common

TEN ENT   as tenants by the entireties

JT TEN   as joint tenants with the right of survivorship
and not as tenants in common

UNIF GIFT MIN ACT                          Custodian                       

(Cust)   
            
             (Minor)

under Uniform Gifts to Minors Act

(State)

Additional abbreviations may also be used 
though not in the above list.

-21- 

ASSIGNMENT

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto

PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR OTHER 
IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE

/                                            /

(Please Print or Typewrite Name and Address

Including Postal Zip Code of Assignee)

the attached Security and all rights thereunder, and hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints                                             

to transfer said Security on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the
premises.

Dated:                                            

Signature Guaranteed

NOTICE: Signature must be
guaranteed.

NOTICE: The signature to this
assignment must correspond with the
name of the Holder as written upon
the face of the attached Security in
every particular, without alteration
or enlargement or any change
whatever. 

-22- 

EXHIBIT A

MASTER AGREEMENT 

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  

Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program   Debt Guarantee Program  

TLGP Master Agreement 11/24/08 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

TLGP Master Agreement 11/24/08 

MASTER AGREEMENT 

THIS MASTER AGREEMENT  (this   Master Agreement  ) is being entered into as of the date
set forth on the signature page hereto by and between THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION ,  a
corporation organized under the laws of the United States of America and having its principal
office in Washington, D.C. (the   FDIC  ), and the entity whose name appears on the signature
page hereto (the   Issuer  ).

RECITALS   

WHEREAS , on November 21, 2008, the FDIC issued its Final Rule, 12 C.F.R. Part 370 (as may be
amended from time to time, the   Rule  ), establishing the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee
Program (the   Program   and

WHEREAS , pursuant to the Rule, the FDIC will guarantee the payment of certain newly-issued
 senior unsecured debt  (as defined in the Rule,
hereinafter   Senior Unsecured
Debt  ) issued by an  eligible entity  (as defined in the Rule); and

WHEREAS , the Issuer is an eligible entity for purposes of the Rule and has elected to
participate in the debt guarantee component of the Program.

ARTICLE I 
DEFINITIONS 

1.01.    Certain Defined Terms   .  As used in this Master Agreement, the following terms
shall have the following meanings:

Business Day   means any day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banks
are required or authorized by law to be closed in the State of New York.

FDIC   has the meaning ascribed to such term in the introductory paragraph to this
Master Agreement.

FDIC Guarantee   means the guarantee of payment by the FDIC of the Senior Unsecured
Debt of the Issuer in accordance with the terms of the Program.

Guarantee Payment   means any payment made by the FDIC under the Program with respect
to Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer.

Guarantee Payment Notice   has the meaning ascribed to such term in  Section
2.02 .

Issuer   has the meaning ascribed to such term in the introductory paragraph to this
Master Agreement.

Issuer Make-Whole Payments   has the meaning ascribed to such term in
 Section 2.03 .

Issuer Reports   means reports, registrations, documents, filings, statements and
submissions, together with any amendments thereto, that the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer
is required to file with any governmental entity.

Master Agreement   means this Master Agreement, together with all Annexes and
amendments hereto.

Material Adverse Effect   means a material adverse effect on the business, results of
operations or financial condition of the Issuer and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole.

Program   has the meaning ascribed to such term in the Recitals.

Reimbursement Payment   has the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 2.03.

Relevant Provision   means any provision that is related to the principal, interest,
payment, default or ranking of the Senior Unsecured Debt, any provision contained in Annex A or any
other provision the amendment of which would require the consent of any or all of the holders of
such debt.

Representative   means the trustee, administrative agent, paying agent or other
fiduciary or agent designated as the  Representative  under the governing documents for any Senior
Unsecured Debt of the Issuer subject to the FDIC Guarantee for purposes of submitting claims or
taking other actions under the Program.

Rule   has the meaning ascribed to such term in the Recitals.

Senior Unsecured Debt   has the meaning ascribed to such term in the Recitals.

1.02.    Terms Generally   .  Words in the singular shall be held to include the plural and
vice versa and words of one gender shall be held to include the other gender as the context
requires, the terms  hereof ,  herein  and  herewith  and words of similar import shall, unless
otherwise stated, be construed to refer to this Master Agreement and not to any particular
provision of this Master Agreement, and Article, Section and paragraph references are to the
Articles, Sections and paragraphs of this Master Agreement unless otherwise specified, and the word
 including  and words of similar import when used in this Master Agreement shall mean  including,
without limitation , unless otherwise specified.

ARTICLE II 
SENIOR DEBT GUARANTEE 

2.01.    Acknowledgement of Guarantee  . The FDIC hereby acknowledges that the Issuer has
elected to participate in the debt guarantee component of the Program and that, as a result, the
Issuer s Senior Unsecured Debt is guaranteed by the FDIC to the extent set forth in, and subject to
the provisions of, the Rule, and subject to the terms hereof.

2.02.    Guarantee Payments  . The Issuer understands and acknowledges that any Guarantee
Payment with respect to a particular issue of Senior Unsecured Debt shall be paid by the FDIC
directly to:

(a) the Representative with respect to such Senior Unsecured Debt if a Representative has been
designated; or

(b) the registered holder(s) of such Senior Unsecured Debt if no Representative has been
designated; or

(c) any registered holder of such Senior Unsecured Debt who has opted out of being represented
by the designated Representative;

in each case, pursuant to the claims procedure set forth in the Rule. In no event shall the FDIC
make any Guarantee Payment to the Issuer directly. The FDIC will provide prompt written notice to
the Issuer of any Guarantee Payment made by the FDIC with respect to any of the Issuer s Senior
Unsecured Debt (the   Guarantee Payment Notice  ).

2.03.    Issuer Make-Whole Payments  . In consideration of the FDIC providing the FDIC
Guarantee with respect to the Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer, the Issuer hereby irrevocably
and unconditionally covenants and agrees:

(a) to reimburse the FDIC immediately upon receipt of the Guarantee Payment Notice for all
Guarantee Payments set forth in the Guarantee Payment Notice (the   Reimbursement Payment  )
(without duplication of any amounts actually received by the FDIC as subrogee or assignee under the
governing documents of the relevant Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer);

(b) beginning as of the date of the Issuer s receipt of the Guarantee Payment Notice, to pay
interest on any unpaid Reimbursement Payments until such Reimbursement Payments shall have been
paid in full by the Issuer, at an interest rate equal to one percent (1%) per annum above the
non-default interest rate payable on the Senior Unsecured Debt with respect to which the relevant
Guarantee Payments were made, as calculated in accordance with the documents governing such Senior
Unsecured Debt; and

(c) to reimburse the FDIC for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, disbursements and
advances incurred or made by it, including costs of collection or other enforcement of the Issuer s
payment obligations hereunder. Such expenses shall include the reasonable compensation and
expenses, disbursements and advances of the FDIC s agents, counsel, accountants and experts.

Clauses (a), (b) and (c) above are collectively referred to herein as the   Issuer
Make-Whole Payments  . The indebtedness of the Issuer to the FDIC arising under this
 Section 2.03  constitutes a senior unsecured general obligation of the Issuer, ranking  pari
passu  with other senior unsecured indebtedness of the Issuer, including without limitation Senior Unsecured Debt of
the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee.

2.04.    Waiver of Defenses  . The Issuer hereby waives any defenses it might otherwise
have to its payment obligations under any of the Issuer s Senior Unsecured Debt or under
 Section 2.03  hereof, in each case beginning at such time as the FDIC has made any Guarantee

Payment with respect to such Senior Unsecured Debt and continuing until such time as all Issuer
Make-Whole Payments have been received by the FDIC.

ARTICLE III 
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF THE ISSUER 

3.01.    Organization and Authority  . The Issuer has been duly organized and is validly
existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, with the
necessary power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business in all material
respects as currently conducted, except as has not had, or would not reasonably be expected to
have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.

3.02.    Authorization, Enforceability  .

(a) The Issuer has the power and authority to execute and deliver this Master Agreement and to
carry out its obligations hereunder. The execution, delivery and performance by the Issuer of this
Master Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly
authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Issuer, and no further approval or
authorization is required on the part of the Issuer. This Master Agreement is a valid and binding
obligation of the Issuer enforceable against the Issuer in accordance with its terms, subject to
(i) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or other similar laws
now or hereafter in effect relating to creditors  rights generally and (ii) general principles of
equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity).

(b) The execution, delivery and performance by the Issuer of this Master Agreement and the
consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and compliance by the Issuer with the
provisions hereof, will not (i) violate, conflict with, or result in a breach of any provision of,
or constitute a default (or an event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute
a default) under, or result in the termination of, or accelerate the performance required by, or
result in a right of termination or acceleration of, or result in the creation of, any lien,
security interest, charge or encumbrance upon any of the properties or assets of the Issuer or any
subsidiary of the Issuer under, any of the terms, conditions or provisions of, as applicable, (X)
its organizational documents or (Y) any note, bond, mortgage, indenture, deed of trust, license,
lease, agreement or other instrument or obligation to which the Issuer or any subsidiary of the
Issuer may be bound, or to which the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer may be subject, or (ii)
violate any statute, rule or regulation or any judgment, ruling, order, writ, injunction or decree
applicable to the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer or any of their respective properties or
assets except, in the case of clauses (i)(Y) and (ii), for those occurrences that, individually or
in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse
Effect.

(c) No prior notice to, filing with, exemption or review by, or authorization, consent or
approval of, any governmental entity is required to be made or obtained by the Issuer in connection
with the execution of this Master Agreement, except for any such notices, filings, exemptions,
reviews, authorizations, consents and approvals which have been made or obtained

or the failure of which to make or obtain would not, individually or in the aggregate,
reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.

3.03.    Reports  . Since December 31, 2007, the Issuer and each subsidiary of the Issuer
has timely filed all Issuer Reports and has paid all fees and assessments due and payable in
connection therewith, except, in each case, as would not individually or in the aggregate have a
Material Adverse Effect. As of their respective dates of filing, the Issuer Reports complied in
all material respects with all statutes and applicable rules and regulations of all applicable
governmental entities. In the case of each such Issuer Report filed with or furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission, if any, such Issuer Report (a) did not, as of its date, or if
amended prior to the date of this Master Agreement, as of the date of such amendment, contain an
untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the
statements made therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading,
(b) complied as to form in all material respects with all applicable requirements of the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and (c) no executive
officer of the Issuer or any subsidiary of the Issuer has failed in any respect to make the
certifications required by him or her under Section 302 or 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
With respect to all other Issuer Reports, the Issuer Reports were complete and accurate in all
material respects as of their respective dates.

ARTICLE IV 
NOTICE AND REPORTING 

4.01.    Reports of Existing and Future Guaranteed Debt   .  The Issuer shall provide
reports to the FDIC of the amount of all Senior Unsecured Debt subject to the FDIC Guarantee in
accordance with the reporting requirements of the Rule.

4.02.    On-going Reporting   .  The Issuer covenants and agrees that, for so long as it has
outstanding Senior Unsecured Debt that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee, it shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the FDIC (a) monthly reports, in such form as specified by the FDIC, containing
information relating to the Issuer s outstanding Senior Unsecured Debt that is subject to the FDIC
Guarantee and such other information as may be requested in such form, and (b) such other
information that the FDIC may reasonably request, such other information to be delivered within ten
(10) Business Days of receipt by the Issuer of any such request.

4.03.    Notice of Defaults   .  The Issuer covenants and agrees that it shall notify the
FDIC within one (1) Business Day of any default in the payment of any principal or interest when
due, without giving effect to any cure period, with respect to any indebtedness of the Issuer
(including debt that is not subject to the FDIC Guarantee), whether such debt is existing as of the
date of this Master Agreement or is issued subsequent to the date hereof, if such default would
result, or would reasonably be expected to result, in an event of default under any Senior
Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee.

ARTICLE V 
COVENANTS AND ACKNOWLEDGMENTS OF THE ISSUER 

5.01.    Terms to be included in Future Guaranteed Debt  . The governing documents for the
issuance of any Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee shall
contain each of the provisions set forth in  Annex A . If a particular issue of Senior
Unsecured Debt is evidenced solely by a trade confirmation, the Issuer shall use commercially
reasonable efforts to cause the holder of such debt to execute a written instrument setting forth
the holder s agreement to be bound by the provisions set forth in  Annex A . No document
governing the issuance of Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee
shall contain any provision that would result in the automatic acceleration of the debt upon a
default by the Issuer at any time during which the FDIC Guarantee is in effect or during which
Guarantee Payments are being made in accordance with Section 370.12(b)(2) of the Rule.

5.02.    Breaches; False or Misleading Statements  . The Issuer acknowledges and agrees
that (a) if it is in breach of any provision of this Master Agreement or (b) if it makes any false
or misleading statement or representation in connection with the Issuer s participation in the
Program, or makes any statement or representation in bad faith with the intent to influence the
actions of the FDIC, the FDIC may take the enforcement actions provided in Section 370.11 of the
Rule, including termination of the Issuer s participation in the Program. As set forth in the
Rule, any termination of the Issuer s participation in the Program would solely have prospective
effect, and would in no event affect the FDIC Guarantee with respect to Senior Unsecured Debt of
the Issuer that is issued and outstanding prior to the termination of the Issuer s participation in
the Program.

5.03.    No Modifications  . The Issuer covenants and agrees that it shall not amend,
modify, or consent to any amendment or modification, or waive any Relevant Provision, without the
express written consent of the FDIC.

5.04.    Waiver by the Issuer  . The Issuer acknowledges and agrees that if any covenant,
stipulation or other provision of this Master Agreement that imposes on the Issuer the obligation
to make any payment is at any time void under any provision of applicable law, the Issuer will not
make any claim, counterclaim or institute any proceedings against the FDIC or any of its assignees
or subrogees for any amount paid by the Issuer at any time, and the Issuer waives unconditionally
and absolutely any rights and defenses, legal or equitable, which arise under or in connection with
any such provision and which might otherwise be available to it for recovery of any amount due
under this Master Agreement.

ARTICLE
VI GENERAL
PROVISIONS 

6.01.    Amendment and Modification of this Master Agreement   .  This Master Agreement may
be amended, modified and supplemented in any and all respects, but only by a written instrument
signed by the parties hereto expressly stating that such instrument is intended to amend, modify or
supplement this Master Agreement.

6.02.    Notices   .  Unless otherwise provided herein, all notices and other
communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed given when mailed, delivered
personally, telecopied (which is confirmed) or sent by an overnight courier service, such as FedEx,
to the parties at the following addresses (or at such other address for a party as shall be
specified by such party by like notice):

if to the Issuer, to the address appearing on the signature page hereto

if to the FDIC, to:

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 

Deputy Director, Receivership Operations Branch 

Division of Resolutions and Receiverships 

Attention: Master Agreement 

550 17th Street, N.W. 

Washington, DC 20429 

6.03.    Counterparts   .  This Master Agreement may be executed in counterparts, which,
together, shall be considered one and the same agreement. Copies of executed counterparts
transmitted by telecopy or other electronic transmission service shall be considered original,
executed counterparts, provided receipt of such counterparts is confirmed.

6.04.    Severability   .  Any term or provision of this Master Agreement that is held by a
court of competent jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable in any
situation in any jurisdiction shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining
terms and provisions hereof or the validity or enforceability of the offending term or provision in
any other situation or in any other jurisdiction. If the final judgment of a court of competent
jurisdiction or other authority declares that any term or provision hereof is invalid, void or
unenforceable, the parties agree that the court making such determination shall have the power to
reduce the scope, duration or applicability of the term or provision, to delete specific words or
phrases, or to replace any invalid, void or unenforceable term or provision with a term or
provision that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to expressing the intention of the
invalid or unenforceable term or provision.

6.05.    Governing Law   .  Federal law of the United States shall control this Master
Agreement. To the extent that federal law does not supply a rule of decision, this Master
Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in accordance with, the laws of the
State of New York without giving effect to principles of conflicts of law other than Section 5-1401
of the New York General Obligations Law. Nothing in this Master Agreement will require any
unlawful action or inaction by either party.

6.06.    Venue   .  Each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that
any legal action arising under or in connection with this Master Agreement is to be instituted in
the United States District Court in and for the District of Columbia or in any United States
District Court in the jurisdiction where the Issuer s principal office is located.

6.07.    Assignment   .  Neither this Master Agreement nor any of the rights, interests or
obligations hereunder shall be assigned by any of the parties hereto (whether by operation
of law or otherwise) without the prior written consent of the other party, and any purported
assignment

without such consent shall be void. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Master Agreement shall
be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties and their
respective successors and assigns.

6.08.    Headings  . The headings and subheadings of the Table of Contents, Articles and
Sections contained in this Master Agreement, except the terms identified for definition in Article
I and elsewhere in this Master Agreement, are inserted for convenience only and shall not affect
the meaning or interpretation of this Master Agreement or any provision hereof.

6.09.    Delivery Requirement   .  The Issuer shall submit a completed, executed and dated
copy of the signature page hereto to the FDIC within five (5) business days of the date of the
Issuer s election to continue participating in the debt guarantee component of the Program in
accordance with the delivery instructions set forth on the signature page.

SIGNATURES BEGIN ON NEXT PAGE  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the Issuer and the FDIC have caused this Master Agreement to be executed
by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.

THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE 
CORPORATION  

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

NAME OF ISSUER:  

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:   

 /s/  David Viniar   

Name:   
     David Viniar  

Chief Financial Officer  

Address of Issuer:
85 Broad Street  
New York, New York 10004   
FDIC Certificate
Number:                         
  
RSSD ID or 
OTS Docket
Number:
2380443

Date:
11/25/08

Delivery Instructions   

Please deliver a completed, executed and dated copy of this Signature Page to the FDIC within
five (5) business days of the date of the Issuer s election to continue participating in the Debt
Guarantee Program. Email is the preferred method of delivery to MasterAgreement@fdic.gov, or you
may send it by an overnight courier service such as FedEx to Senior Counsel, Special Issues Unit,
E7056, Attention: Master Agreement, 3501 Fairfax Drive, Arlington, Virginia, 22226.

Annex A   

Terms to be Included in Future Issuances of FDIC Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Debt   

The following provisions shall be included in the governing documents for the issuance of
Senior Unsecured Debt of the Issuer that is subject to the FDIC Guarantee, in substantially the
form presented below, unless otherwise specified. The appropriate name of the governing
document(s) shall be inserted in place of the term  Agreement  where it appears in this Annex A.

Acknowledgement of the FDIC s Debt Guarantee Program 

The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that the Issuer has not opted out of the debt
guarantee program (the   Debt Guarantee Program  ) established by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (  FDIC  ) under its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. As a
result,  this debt is guaranteed under the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program and is backed
by the full faith and credit of the United States. The details of the FDIC guarantee are provided
in the FDIC s regulations, 12 CFR Part 370, and at the FDIC s website, www.fdic.gov/tlgp. The
expiration date of the FDIC s guarantee is the earlier of the maturity date of this debt or June
30, 2012.   The italicized portion of the above provision shall be included exactly as written
above 

Representative 

The  insert name of the: trustee, administrative agent, paying agent or other fiduciary or
agent to be designated as the duly authorized representative of the debt holders  is designated
under this Agreement as the duly authorized representative of the holder s  for purposes of making
claims and taking other permitted or required actions under the Debt Guarantee Program (the
  Representative  ). Any holder may elect not to be represented by the Representative by
providing written notice of such election to the Representative.

Subrogation 

The FDIC shall be subrogated to all of the rights of the holder s  and the Representative, if
there shall be one, under this Agreement against the Issuer in respect of any amounts paid to the
holder s , or for the benefit of the holder s , by the FDIC pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program.

Agreement to Execute Assignment upon Guarantee Payment 

If there is a Representative, insert the following: 

The holder s  hereby authorize the Representative, at such time as the FDIC shall commence
making any guarantee payments to the Representative for the benefit of the holder s  pursuant to
the Debt Guarantee Program, to execute an assignment in the form attached to this Agreement as
Exhibit            See  Annex B to Master Agreement   pursuant to which the Representative shall
assign to the FDIC its right as Representative to receive any and all payments from the Issuer
under this Agreement on behalf of the holder s . The Issuer hereby consents and agrees that the
FDIC is an acceptable transferee for all or any portion of the indebtedness hereunder for all
purposes of this Agreement and upon any such assignment, the

TLGP M aster  A greement  11/24/08

FDIC shall be deemed a holder under this Agreement for all purposes hereof, and the Issuer hereby
agrees to take such reasonable steps as are necessary to comply with any relevant provision of this
Agreement as a result of such assignment.

or, if (i) there is no Representative or (ii) the holder has exercised its right not to be
represented by the Representative, insert the following: 

The holder s  hereby agree that, at such time as the FDIC shall commence making any guarantee
payments to the holder s  pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program, the holder s  shall execute an
assignment in the form attached to this Agreement as Exhibit            See  Annex B to Master
Agreement   pursuant to which the holder s  shall assign to the FDIC  its/their  right to receive
any and all payments from the Issuer under this Agreement. The Issuer hereby consents and agrees
that the FDIC is an acceptable transferee for all or any portion of the indebtedness hereunder for
all purposes of this Agreement and upon any such assignment, the FDIC shall be deemed a holder
under this Agreement for all purposes thereof, and the Issuer hereby agrees to take such reasonable
steps as are necessary to comply with any relevant provision of this Agreement as a result of such
assignment.

Surrender of Senior Unsecured Debt Instrument to the FDIC 

If, at any time on or prior to the expiration of the period during which senior unsecured debt
of the Issuer is guaranteed by the FDIC under the Debt Guarantee Program (the  Effective Period ), payment in full hereunder shall be made
pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program on the outstanding principal and accrued interest to such
date of payment, the holder shall, or the holder shall cause the person or entity in possession to,
promptly surrender to the FDIC the security certificate, note or other instrument evidencing such
debt, if any.

Notice Obligations to FDIC of Payment Default  

If, at any time prior to the earlier of (a) full satisfaction of the payment obligations
hereunder, or (b) expiration of the Effective Period, the Issuer is in default of any payment
obligation hereunder, including timely payment of any accrued and unpaid interest, without regard
to any cure period, the Representative covenants and agrees that it shall provide written notice to
the FDIC within one (1) Business Day of such payment default.

Ranking  

Any indebtedness of the Issuer to the FDIC arising under Section 2.03 of the Master Agreement
entered into by the Issuer and the FDIC in connection with the Debt Guarantee Program will
constitute a senior unsecured general obligation of the Issuer, ranking  pari passu  with any indebtedness hereunder.

No Event of Default during Time of Timely FDIC Guarantee Payments  

There shall not be deemed to be an event of default under this Agreement which would permit or
result in the acceleration of amounts due hereunder, if such an event of default is due solely to
the failure of the Issuer to make timely payment hereunder, provided that the FDIC is

TLGP M aster  A greement  11/24/08

A-2 

making timely guarantee payments with respect to the debt obligations hereunder in accordance with
12 C.F.R Part 370.

No Modifications without FDIC Consent 

Without the express written consent of the FDIC, the parties hereto agree not to amend,
modify, supplement or waive any provision in this Agreement that is related to the principal,
interest, payment, default or ranking of the indebtedness hereunder or that is required to be
included herein pursuant to the Master Agreement executed by the Issuer in connection with the Debt
Guarantee Program.

TLGP M aster  A greement  11/24/08

A-3 

EXHIBIT B

ASSIGNMENT 

This Assignment is made pursuant to the terms of Section 10 of the reverse of The Goldman
Sachs Group, Inc. s                        Notes due                       , CUSIP No.                        (the  Security ), between The
Bank of New York Mellon (the  Representative ), acting on behalf of the Holder of the Security who
have not opted out of representation by the Representative, and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (the
 Company ) with respect to the debt obligations of the Company that are guaranteed under the Debt
Guarantee Program. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the
meanings assigned thereto in the Security. Solely for the purpose of this Assignment,  Business
Day  means any day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banks are required or
authorized by law to be closed in the State of New York.

For value received, the Representative, on behalf of the Holder (the  Assignor ), hereby
assigns to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the  FDIC ), without recourse, all of the
Assignor s respective rights, title and interest in and to: (a) the Security; (b) the Senior Debt
Indenture, dated July 16, 2008 (the  2008 Indenture ), by and between the Company and the
Representative, with respect to the Security; and (c) any other instrument or agreement executed by
the Company regarding obligations of the Company under the Security or the 2008 Indenture with
respect to the Security (collectively, the  Assignment ).

The Assignor hereby certifies that:

1. Without the FDIC s prior written consent, the Assignor has not:

(a) agreed to any material amendment of the Security or to any material deviation from the
provisions thereof; or

(b) accelerated the maturity of the Security.

Instructions to the Assignor:  If the Assignor has not assigned or transferred any interest in
the Security and related documentation, such Assignor must include the following representation.   

2. The Assignor has not assigned or otherwise transferred any interest in the Security;

Instructions to the Assignor:  If the Assignor has assigned a partial interest in the Security
and related documentation, the Assignor must include the following representation.   

B-1 

2. The Assignor has assigned part of its rights, title and interest in the Security to
                       pursuant to the                        agreement, dated as of                       , 20   , between
                      , as assignor, and                       , as assignee, an executed copy of which is attached
hereto.

The Assignor acknowledges and agrees that this Assignment is subject to the Security and the
2008 Indenture and to the following:

1. In the event the Assignor receives any payment under or related to the Security from a
party other than the FDIC (a  Non-FDIC Payment ):

(a) after the date of demand for a guarantee payment on the FDIC pursuant to 12 CFR Part 370,
but prior to the date of the FDIC s first guarantee payment under the Security pursuant to 12 CFR
Part 370, the Assignor shall promptly but in no event later than five (5) Business Days after
receipt notify the FDIC of the date and the amount of such Non-FDIC Payment and shall apply such
payment as payment made by the Company, and not as a guarantee payment made by the FDIC, and
therefore, the amount of such payment shall be excluded from this Assignment; and

(b) after the FDIC s first guarantee payment under the Security, the Assignor shall forward
promptly to the FDIC such Non-FDIC Payment in accordance with the payment instructions provided in
writing by the FDIC.

2. Acceptance by the Assignor of payment pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program on behalf of
the Holder shall constitute a release by the Holder of any liability of the FDIC under the Debt
Guarantee Program with respect to such payment.

The Person who is executing this Assignment on behalf of the Assignor hereby represents and
warrants to the FDIC that he/she/it is duly authorized to do so.

B-2 

******

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Assignor has caused this instrument to be executed and delivered this
   day of                       , 20   .

Very truly yours, 

ASSIGNOR  

By: 

(Signature) 

Name: 

(Print) 

Title: 

(Print) 

Consented to and acknowledged by this    day of    , 20   :

THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION

By:

(Signature)

Name:

(Print)

Title:

(Print)

B-3 

</EX-4.8>

<EX-10.1>
 7
 y74032exv10w1.htm
 EX-10.1: AMENDED AND RESTATED STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

EX-10.1 

Exhibit 10.1 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS 
AMENDED AND RESTATED STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 

(amended and restated effective as of December 31, 2008)

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

i 

ii 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS 
AMENDED AND RESTATED STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 

ARTICLE I 

GENERAL 

1.1  Purpose 

The purpose of The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan is to attract,
retain and motivate officers, directors, employees (including prospective employees), consultants
and others who may perform services for the Firm (as hereinafter defined), to compensate them for
their contributions to the long-term growth and profits of the Firm and to encourage them to
acquire a proprietary interest in the success of the Firm.

The Plan was originally adopted by the Board of Directors of GS Inc. on April 30, 1999 as The
Goldman Sachs 1999 Stock Incentive Plan (the  1999 SIP ) and was amended and restated by the Board
on January 16, 2003, subject to the approval by the shareholders of GS Inc. Such shareholder
approval was obtained on April 1, 2003. The Plan was further amended and restated, effective as of
December 31, 2008.

The amendments made to the 1999 SIP shall affect only Awards granted on or after the
 Effective Date  (as hereinafter defined). Awards granted prior to the Effective Date shall be
governed by the terms of the 1999 SIP and Award Agreements as in effect prior to the Effective
Date. The terms of this Plan are not intended to affect the interpretation of the terms of the
1999 SIP as they existed prior to the Effective Date.

1.2  Definitions of Certain Terms 

Unless otherwise specified in an applicable Award Agreement, the terms listed below shall have
the following meanings for purposes of the Plan, any Award Agreement and any standardized terms and
conditions that may be adopted from time to time by the Committee.

1.2.1   Award   means an award made pursuant to the Plan.

1.2.2   Award Agreement   means the written document or documents by which each Award is
evidenced, including any Award Statement.

1.2.3   Award Statement   means a written statement that reflects certain Award terms.

1.2.4   Board   means the Board of Directors of GS Inc.

1.2.5   Business Day   means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which
banking institutions in New York City are authorized or obligated by federal law or executive order
to be closed.

1.2.6   Cause   means (a) the Grantee s conviction, whether following trial or by plea
of guilty or  nolo contendere  (or similar plea), in a criminal proceeding (i) on a misdemeanor
charge involving fraud, false statements or misleading omissions, wrongful taking, embezzlement,
bribery, forgery, counterfeiting or extortion, or (ii) on a felony charge, or (iii) on an
equivalent charge to those in clauses (i) and (ii) in jurisdictions which do not use those
designations, (b) the Grantee s engaging in any conduct which constitutes an employment
disqualification under applicable law (including statutory disqualification as defined under the
Exchange Act), (c) the Grantee s willful failure to perform the Grantee s duties to the Firm, (d)
the Grantee s violation of any securities or commodities laws, any rules or regulations issued
pursuant to such laws, or the rules and regulations of any securities or commodities exchange or
association of which the Firm is a member, (e) the Grantee s violation of any Firm policy
concerning hedging or pledging or confidential or proprietary information, or the Grantee s
material violation of any other Firm policy as in effect from time to time, (f) the Grantee s
engaging in any act or making any statement which impairs, impugns, denigrates, disparages or
negatively reflects upon the name, reputation or business interests of the Firm or (g) the
Grantee s engaging in any conduct detrimental to the Firm. The determination as to whether Cause
has occurred shall be made by the Committee in its sole discretion and, in such case, the Committee
also may, but shall not be required to, specify the date such Cause occurred (including by
determining that a prior termination of Employment was for Cause). Any rights the Firm may have
hereunder and in any Award Agreement in respect of the events giving rise to Cause shall be in
addition to the rights the Firm have under any other agreement with a Grantee or at law or in
equity.

1.2.7   Certificate   means a stock certificate (or other appropriate document or
evidence of ownership) representing shares of Common Stock.

1.2.8   Change in Control   means the consummation of a merger, consolidation, statutory
share exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving GS Inc. (a  Reorganization ) or
sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of GS Inc. s assets to an entity that is not
an affiliate of GS Inc. (a  Sale ), that in each case requires the approval of GS Inc. s
stockholders under the law of GS Inc. s jurisdiction of organization, whether for such
Reorganization or Sale (or the issuance of securities of GS Inc. in such Reorganization or Sale),
unless immediately following such Reorganization or Sale, either: (a) at least 50% of the total
voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an
entity other than a corporation) of (i) the entity resulting from such Reorganization, or the
entity which has acquired all or substantially all of the assets of GS Inc. in a Sale (in either
case, the  Surviving Entity ), or (ii) if applicable, the ultimate parent entity that directly or
indirectly has

2 

beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, as such Rule is
in effect on the date of the adoption of the 1999 SIP) of 50% or more of the total voting power (in
respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a
corporation) of the Surviving Entity (the  Parent Entity ) is represented by GS Inc. s securities
(the  GS Inc. Securities ) that were outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization or Sale
(or, if applicable, is represented by shares into which such GS Inc. Securities were converted
pursuant to such Reorganization or Sale) or (b) at least 50% of the members of the board of
directors (or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the Parent
Entity (or, if there is no Parent Entity, the Surviving Entity) following the consummation of the
Reorganization or Sale were, at the time of the Board s approval of the execution of the initial
agreement providing for such Reorganization or Sale, individuals (the  Incumbent Directors ) who
either (i) were members of the Board on the Effective Date or (ii) became directors subsequent to
the Effective Date and whose election or nomination for election was approved by a vote of at least
two-thirds of the Incumbent Directors then on the Board (either by a specific vote or by approval
of GS Inc. s proxy statement in which such persons are named as nominees for director).

1.2.9   Client   means any client or prospective client of the Firm to whom the Grantee
provided services, or for whom the Grantee transacted business, or whose identity became known to
the Grantee in connection with the Grantee s relationship with or employment by the Firm.

1.2.10   Code   means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time,
and the applicable rulings and regulations thereunder.

1.2.11   Committee   means the committee appointed by the Board to administer the Plan
pursuant to Section 1.3, and, to the extent the Board determines it is appropriate for the
compensation realized from Awards under the Plan to be considered  performance based  compensation
under Section 162(m) of the Code, shall be a committee or subcommittee of the Board composed of two
or more members, each of whom is an  outside director  within the meaning of Code Section 162(m),
and which, to the extent the Board determines it is appropriate for Awards under the Plan to
qualify for the exemption available under Rule 16b-3(d)(1) or Rule 16b-3(e) promulgated under the
Exchange Act, shall be a committee or subcommittee of the Board composed of two or more members,
each of whom is a  non-employee director  within the meaning of Rule 16b-3. Unless otherwise
determined by the Board, the Committee shall be the Compensation Committee of the Board.

1.2.12   Common Stock   means common stock of GS Inc., par value $0.01 per share.

1.2.13   Competitive Enterprise   means a business enterprise that (a) engages in any
activity, (b) owns or controls a significant interest in or (c) is owned by, or a significant
interest in which is owned or controlled by, any entity that engages in any activity, that, in any

3 

case, competes anywhere with any activity in which the Firm is engaged. The activities
covered by this definition include, without limitation, financial services such as investment
banking, public or private finance, lending, financial advisory services, private investing (for
anyone other than the Grantee and members of the Grantee s family), merchant banking, asset or
hedge fund management, insurance or reinsurance underwriting or brokerage, property management, or
securities, futures, commodities, energy, derivatives or currency brokerage, sales, lending,
custody, clearance, settlement or trading.

1.2.14   Custody Account   means the custody account maintained by a Grantee with The
Chase Manhattan Bank or such successor custodian as may be designated by GS Inc.

1.2.15   Date of Grant   means the date specified in the Grantee s Award Agreement as
the date of grant of the Award.

1.2.16   Delivery Date   means each date specified in the Grantee s Award Agreement as a
delivery date, provided, unless the Committee determines otherwise, such date is during a Window
Period or, if such date is not during a Window Period, the first trading day of the first Window
Period beginning after such date.

1.2.17   Dividend Equivalent Right   means a dividend equivalent right granted under the
Plan, which represents an unfunded and unsecured promise to pay to the Grantee amounts equal to all
or any portion of the regular cash dividends that would be paid on shares of Common Stock covered
by an Award if such shares had been delivered pursuant to an Award.

1.2.18   Effective Date   means the date this Plan is approved by the stockholders of GS
Inc. pursuant to Section 3.15 hereof.

1.2.19   Employment   means the Grantee s performance of services for the Firm, as
determined by the Committee. The terms  employ  and  employed  shall have their correlative
meanings. The Committee in its sole discretion may determine (a) whether and when a Grantee s
leave of absence results in a termination of Employment (for this purpose, unless the Committee
determines otherwise, a Grantee shall be treated as terminating Employment with the Firm upon the
occurrence of an Extended Absence), (b) whether and when a change in a Grantee s association with
the Firm results in a termination of Employment and (c) the impact, if any, of any such leave of
absence or change in association on Awards theretofore made. Unless expressly provided otherwise,
any references in the Plan or any Award Agreement to a Grantee s Employment being terminated shall
include both voluntary and involuntary terminations.

1.2.20   Exchange Act   means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time
to time, and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder.

1.2.21   Exercise Price   means (i) in the case of Options, the price specified in the
Grantee s Award Agreement as the price-per-share of Common Stock at which such share can be
purchased pursuant to the Option or (ii) in the case of SARs, the price specified in the Grantee s

4 

Award Agreement as the reference price-per-share of Common Stock used to calculate the amount
payable to the Grantee.

1.2.22   Expiration Date   means the date specified in the Grantee s Award Agreement as
the final expiration date of the Award.

1.2.23   Extended Absence   means the Grantee s inability to perform for six (6)
continuous months, due to illness, injury or pregnancy-related complications, substantially all the
essential duties of the Grantee s occupation, as determined by the Committee.

1.2.24   Fair Market Value   means, with respect to a share of Common Stock on any day,
the fair market value as determined in accordance with a valuation methodology approved by the
Committee.

1.2.25   Firm   means GS Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates.

1.2.26   Good Reason   means, in connection with a termination of employment by a
Grantee following a Change in Control, (a) as determined by the Committee, a materially adverse
alteration in the Grantee s position or in the nature or status of the Grantee s responsibilities
from those in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control or (b) the Firm s requiring the
Grantee s principal place of Employment to be located more than seventy-five (75) miles from the
location where the Grantee is principally Employed at the time of the Change in Control (except for
required travel on the Firm s business to an extent substantially consistent with the Grantee s
customary business travel obligations in the ordinary course of business prior to the Change in
Control).

1.2.27   Grantee   means a person who receives an Award.

1.2.28   GS Inc.   means The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., and any successor thereto.

1.2.29   Incentive Stock Option   means an option to purchase shares of Common Stock
that is intended to qualify for special federal income tax treatment pursuant to Sections 421 and
422 of the Code, as now constituted or subsequently amended, or pursuant to a successor provision
of the Code, and which is so designated in the applicable Option Award Agreement.

1.2.30   Initial Exercise Date   means, with respect to an Option or an SAR, the date
specified in the Grantee s Award Agreement as the initial date on which such Award may be
exercised, provided, unless the Committee determines otherwise, such date is during a Window Period
or, if such date is not during a Window Period, the first trading day of the first Window Period
beginning after such date.

5 

1.2.31   1999 SIP   means The Goldman Sachs 1999 Stock Incentive Plan, as in effect
prior to the Effective Date.

1.2.32   Nonqualified Stock Option   means an option to purchase shares of Common Stock
that is not an Incentive Stock Option.

1.2.33   Option   means an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option or
both, as the context requires.

1.2.34   Outstanding   means any Award to the extent it has not been forfeited,
cancelled, terminated, exercised or with respect to which the shares of Common Stock underlying the
Award have not been previously delivered or other payments made.

1.2.35   Plan   means The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan, as
described herein and as hereafter amended from time to time.

1.2.36   RSU   means a restricted stock unit Award granted under the Plan, which
represents an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver shares of Common Stock in accordance with
the terms of the RSU Award Agreement.

1.2.37   RSU Shares   means shares of Common Stock that underlie an RSU.

1.2.38   Restricted Share   means a share of Common Stock delivered under the Plan that
is subject to certain transfer restrictions, forfeiture provisions and/or other terms and
conditions specified herein and in the Restricted Share Award Agreement.

1.2.39   Retirement   means termination of the Grantee s Employment (other than for
Cause) on or after the Date of Grant at a time when (a) the sum of the Grantee s age plus years of
service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) equals or exceeds 55
and (b) the Grantee has completed at least five (5) years of service with the Firm (as determined
by the Committee in its sole discretion).

1.2.40   SAR   means a stock appreciation right granted under the Plan, which represents
an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver shares of Common Stock, cash or other property equal
in value to the excess of the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock over the Exercise Price
per share of the SAR, subject to the terms of the SAR Award Agreement.

1.2.41   SIP Administrator   means each person designated by the Committee as a  SIP
Administrator  with the authority to perform day-to-day administrative functions for the Plan.

1.2.42   Solicit   means any direct or indirect communication of any kind whatsoever,
regardless of by whom initiated, inviting, advising, encouraging or requesting any person or
entity, in any manner, to take or refrain from taking any action.

6 

1.2.43   Vested   means, with respect to an Award, the portion of the Award that is not
subject to a condition that the Grantee remain actively employed by the Firm in order for the Award
to remain Outstanding. The fact that an Award becomes Vested shall not mean or otherwise indicate
that the Grantee has an unconditional or nonforfeitable right to such Award, and such Award shall
remain subject to such terms, conditions and forfeiture provisions as may be provided for in the
Plan or in the Award Agreement.

1.2.44   Vesting Date   means each date specified in the Grantee s Award Agreement as a
date on which part or all of an Award becomes Vested.

1.2.45   Window Period   means a period designated by the Firm during which all
employees of the Firm are permitted to purchase or sell shares of Common Stock (provided that, if
the Grantee is a member of a designated group of employees who are subject to different
restrictions, the Window Period may be a period designated by the Firm during which an employee of
the Firm in such designated group is permitted to purchase or sell shares of Common Stock).

1.3  Administration 

1.3.1 Subject to Sections 1.3.3 and 1.3.4, the Plan shall be administered by the Committee.

1.3.2 The Committee shall have complete control over the administration of the Plan and shall
have the authority in its sole discretion to (a) exercise all of the powers granted to it under the
Plan, (b) construe, interpret and implement the Plan and all Award Agreements, (c) prescribe, amend
and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, including rules governing its own
operations, (d) make all determinations necessary or advisable in administering the Plan,
(e) correct any defect, supply any omission and reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan, (f) amend
the Plan to reflect changes in applicable law (whether or not the rights of the Grantee of any
Award are adversely affected, unless otherwise provided in such Grantee s Award Agreement), (g)
grant Awards and determine who shall receive Awards, when such Awards shall be granted and the
terms of such Awards, including setting forth provisions with regard to termination of Employment,
such as termination of Employment for Cause or due to death, Extended Absence, or Retirement, (h)
unless otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, amend any outstanding Award Agreement in any
respect, whether or not the rights of the Grantee of such Award are adversely affected, including,
without limitation, to (1) accelerate the time or times at which the Award becomes Vested,
unrestricted or may be exercised (and, in connection with such acceleration, the Committee may
provide that any shares of Common Stock acquired pursuant to such Award shall be Restricted Shares,
which are subject to vesting, transfer, forfeiture or repayment provisions similar to those in the
Grantee s underlying Award), (2) accelerate the time or times at which shares of Common Stock are
delivered under the Award (and, without limitation on the Committee s rights, in connection

7 

with such acceleration, the Committee may provide that any shares of Common Stock delivered
pursuant to such Award shall be Restricted Shares, which are subject to vesting, transfer,
forfeiture or repayment provisions similar to those in the Grantee s underlying Award), (3) waive
or amend any goals, restrictions or conditions set forth in such Award Agreement, or impose new
goals, restrictions and conditions or (4) reflect a change in the Grantee s circumstances (e.g., a
change to part-time employment status or a change in position, duties or responsibilities) and (i)
determine at any time whether, to what extent and under what circumstances and method or methods
(1) Awards may be (A) settled in cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities, other Awards or
other property (in which event, the Committee may specify what other effects such settlement will
have on the Grantee s Award, including the effect on any repayment provisions under the Plan or
Award Agreement), (B) exercised or (C) canceled, forfeited or suspended, (2) shares of Common
Stock, other securities, other Awards or other property and other amounts payable with respect to
an Award may be deferred either automatically or at the election of the Grantee thereof or of the
Committee, (3) to the extent permitted under applicable law, loans (whether or not secured by
Common Stock) may be extended by the Firm with respect to any Awards, (4) Awards may be settled by
GS Inc., any of its subsidiaries or affiliates or any of its or their designees and (5) the
Exercise Price for any Option (other than an Incentive Stock Option, unless the Committee
determines that such an Option shall no longer constitute an Incentive Stock Option) or SAR may be
reset.

1.3.3 Actions of the Committee may be taken by the vote of a majority of its members present
at a meeting (which may be held telephonically). Any action may be taken by a written instrument
signed by a majority of the Committee members, and action so taken shall be fully as effective as
if it had been taken by a vote at a meeting. The determination of the Committee on all matters
relating to the Plan or any Award Agreement shall be final, binding and conclusive. The Committee
may allocate among its members and delegate to any person who is not a member of the Committee or
to any administrative group within the Firm, including the SIP Administrators or any of them, any
of its powers, responsibilities or duties. In delegating its authority, the Committee shall
consider the extent to which any delegation may cause Awards to fail to be deductible under
Section 162(m) of the Code or to fail to meet the requirements of Rule 16(b)-3(d)(1) or Rule
16(b)-3(e) under the Exchange Act.

1.3.4 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Board may, in its sole
discretion, at any time and from time to time, grant Awards or administer the Plan. In any such
case, the Board shall have all of the authority and responsibility granted to the Committee herein.

1.3.5  No Liability 

No member of the Board or the Committee or any employee of the Firm (each such person, a
 Covered Person ) shall have any liability to any person (including any Grantee) for any action
taken or omitted to be taken or any determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan or
any Award. Each Covered Person shall be indemnified and held harmless by GS

8 

Inc. against and from (a) any loss, cost, liability or expense (including attorneys  fees)
that may be imposed upon or incurred by such Covered Person in connection with or resulting from
any action, suit or proceeding to which such Covered Person may be a party or in which such Covered
Person may be involved by reason of any action taken or omitted to be taken under the Plan or any
Award Agreement and (b) any and all amounts paid by such Covered Person, with GS Inc. s approval,
in settlement thereof, or paid by such Covered Person in satisfaction of any judgment in any such
action, suit or proceeding against such Covered Person, provided that GS Inc. shall have the right,
at its own expense, to assume and defend any such action, suit or proceeding and, once GS Inc.
gives notice of its intent to assume the defense, GS Inc. shall have sole control over such defense
with counsel of GS Inc. s choice. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be available to
a Covered Person to the extent that a court of competent jurisdiction in a final judgment or other
final adjudication, in either case not subject to further appeal, determines that the acts or
omissions of such Covered Person giving rise to the indemnification claim resulted from such
Covered Person s bad faith, fraud or willful criminal act or omission. The foregoing right of
indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which Covered
Persons may be entitled under GS Inc. s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or
Amended and Restated Bylaws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any other power that GS Inc. may
have to indemnify such persons or hold them harmless.

1.4  Persons Eligible for Awards 

Awards under the Plan may be made to such officers, directors, employees (including
prospective employees), consultants and other individuals who may perform services for the Firm, as
the Committee may select.

1.5  Types of Awards Under Plan 

Awards may be made under the Plan in the form of (a) Options, (b) SARs, (c) Restricted Shares,
(d) RSUs, (e) Dividend Equivalent Rights and (f) other equity-based or equity-related Awards that
the Committee determines are consistent with the purpose of the Plan and the interests of the Firm.
No Incentive Stock Option (other than an Incentive Stock Option that may be assumed or issued by
GS Inc. in connection with a transaction to which Section 424(a) of the Code applies) may be
granted to a person who is not eligible to receive an Incentive Stock Option under the Code.

1.6  Shares Available for Awards 

1.6.1  Total Shares Available . Subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 1.6.2, the
total number of shares of Common Stock which may be delivered pursuant to Awards

9 

granted under the Plan on or after the Effective Date shall not exceed two hundred and fifty
million shares (250,000,000) and pursuant to Awards granted in the fiscal year beginning November
29, 2008 and each fiscal year thereafter until the expiration of the Plan shall not exceed five
percent (5%) of the issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock, determined as of the last day of
the immediately preceding fiscal year, increased by the number of shares available for Awards in
previous fiscal years but not then covered by Awards granted in such years. No further Awards
shall be granted pursuant to the 1999 Plan. If, on or after the Effective Date, any Award that was
granted on or after the Effective Date is forfeited or otherwise terminates or is canceled without
the delivery of shares of Common Stock, shares of Common Stock are surrendered or withheld from any
Award to satisfy any obligation of the Grantee (including Federal, state or foreign taxes) or
shares of Common Stock owned by a Grantee are tendered to pay the exercise price of any Award
granted under the Plan, then the shares covered by such forfeited, terminated or canceled Award or
which are equal to the number of shares surrendered, withheld or tendered shall again become
available to be delivered pursuant to Awards granted under this Plan. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, but subject to adjustment as provided in Section 1.6.2, no more than one hundred million
(100,000,000) shares of Common Stock that can be delivered under the Plan shall be deliverable
pursuant to the exercise of Incentive Stock Options. The maximum number of shares of Common Stock
with respect to which Options or SARs may be granted to an individual Grantee (i) in GS Inc. s
fiscal year ending in 2003 shall equal 2,500,000 shares of Common Stock and (ii) in each subsequent
fiscal year shall equal 105% of the maximum number for the preceding fiscal year. Any shares of
Common Stock (a) delivered by GS Inc., (b) with respect to which Awards are made hereunder and (c)
with respect to which the Firm becomes obligated to make Awards, in each case through the
assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted by an acquired entity,
shall not count against the shares of Common Stock available to be delivered pursuant to Awards
under this Plan. Shares of Common Stock that may be delivered pursuant to Awards may be authorized
but unissued Common Stock or authorized and issued Common Stock held in GS Inc. s treasury or
otherwise acquired for the purposes of the Plan.

1.6.2  Adjustments . The Committee shall adjust the number of shares of Common Stock
authorized pursuant to Section 1.6.1 and shall adjust (including, without limitation, by payment of
cash) the terms of any Outstanding Awards (including, without limitation, the number of shares of
Common Stock covered by each Outstanding Award, the type of property to which the Award relates and
the exercise or strike price of any Award), in such manner as it deems appropriate to prevent the
enlargement or dilution of rights, for any increase or decrease in the number of issued shares of
Common Stock (or issuance of shares of stock other than shares of Common Stock) resulting from a
recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, spinoff, splitup, combination,
reclassification or exchange of shares of Common Stock, merger, consolidation, rights offering,
separation, reorganization or any other change in corporate structure or event the Committee
determines in its sole discretion affects the capitalization of GS Inc., provided, however, that no
such adjustment shall be required if the Committee determines that such action would cause an award
to fail to satisfy the conditions of an applicable exception from the requirements of Section 409A
of the Internal Revenue Code

10 

( Section 409A ) or otherwise would subject a Grantee to an additional tax imposed under
Section 409A in respect of an Outstanding Award. After any adjustment made pursuant to this
Section 1.6.2, the number of shares of Common Stock subject to each Outstanding Award shall be
rounded up or down to the nearest whole number as determined by the Committee.

1.6.3 Except as provided in this Section 1.6 or under the terms of any applicable Award
Agreement, there shall be no limit on the number or the value of shares of Common Stock that may be
subject to Awards to any individual under the Plan.

1.6.4 There shall be no limit on the amount of cash, securities (other than shares of Common
Stock as provided in Section 1.6.1, as adjusted by 1.6.2) or other property that may be delivered
pursuant to any Award.

ARTICLE II 

AWARDS UNDER THE PLAN 

2.1  Agreements Evidencing Awards 

Each Award granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement, which shall
contain such provisions and conditions as the Committee deems appropriate (and which may
incorporate by reference some or all of the provisions of the Plan). The Committee may grant
Awards in tandem with or in substitution for any other Award or Awards granted under this Plan or
any award granted under any other plan of the Firm. By accepting an Award pursuant to the Plan, a
Grantee thereby agrees that the Award shall be subject to all of the terms and provisions of the
Plan and the applicable Award Agreement.

2.2  No Rights as a Shareholder 

No Grantee (or other person having rights pursuant to an Award) shall have any of the rights
of a shareholder of GS Inc. with respect to shares of Common Stock subject to an Award until the
delivery of such shares. Except as otherwise provided in Section 1.6.2, no adjustments shall be
made for dividends or distributions on (whether ordinary or extraordinary, and whether in cash,
Common Stock, other securities or other property), or other events relating to, shares of Common
Stock subject to an Award for which the record date is prior to the date such shares are delivered.

11 

2.3  Options  

2.3.1  Grant . The Committee may grant Awards of Options in such amounts and subject to
such terms and conditions as the Committee may determine (and may include a grant of Dividend
Equivalent Rights under Section 2.8 in connection with such Option grants).

2.3.2  Exercise . Options that are not Vested or that are not Outstanding may not be
exercised. Outstanding Vested Options may be exercised in accordance with procedures established
by the Committee (but, subject to the applicable Award Agreement, may not be exercised earlier than
the Initial Exercise Date). The Committee may from time to time prescribe periods during which
Outstanding Vested Options shall not be exercisable.

2.3.3  Payment of Exercise Price . Any acceptance by the Committee of a Grantee s
written notice of exercise of a Vested Option shall be conditioned upon payment for the shares of
Common Stock being purchased. Such payment may be made in cash or by such other methods as the
Committee may from time to time prescribe.

2.3.4  Delivery of Shares . Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, or as
otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement, and except as provided in Sections 3.3, 3.4,
3.11 and 3.17.1, and subject to Section 3.2, upon receipt of payment of the full Exercise Price (or
upon satisfaction of procedures adopted by the Committee in connection with a  cashless  exercise
method adopted by it) for shares of Common Stock subject to an Outstanding Vested Option, delivery
of such shares of Common Stock shall be effected by book-entry credit to the Grantee s Custody
Account. The Grantee shall be the beneficial owner and record holder of such shares of Common
Stock properly credited to the Custody Account. No delivery of such shares of Common Stock shall
be made to a Grantee unless the Grantee has timely returned all required documentation specified in
the Grantee s Award Agreement or as otherwise required by the Committee or the SIP Administrator.

2.3.5  Repayment if Conditions Not Met . If the Committee determines that all terms and
conditions of the Plan and a Grantee s Option Award Agreement in respect of exercised Options were
not satisfied, then the Grantee shall be obligated to pay the Firm immediately upon demand
therefor, an amount equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value (determined at the time of
exercise) of the shares of Common Stock that were delivered in respect of such exercised Options
over the Exercise Price paid therefor, without reduction for any shares of Common Stock applied to
satisfy withholding tax or other obligations in respect of such shares.

12 

2.4  SARs 

2.4.1  Grant . The Committee may grant Awards of SARs in such amounts and subject to
such terms and conditions as the Committee may determine (and may include a grant of Dividend
Equivalent Rights under Section 2.8 in connection with such SAR grants).

2.4.2  Exercise . SARs that are not Vested or that are not Outstanding may not be
exercised. Outstanding Vested SARs may be exercised in accordance with procedures established by
the Committee (but, subject to the applicable Award Agreement, may not be exercised earlier than
the Initial Exercise Date). The Committee may from time to time prescribe periods during which
Outstanding Vested SARs shall not be exercisable.

2.4.3  Delivery of Shares . Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, or as
otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement, and except as provided in Sections 3.3, 3.4,
3.11 and 3.17.1, and subject to Section 3.2, upon exercise of an Outstanding Vested SAR for which
payment will be made partly or entirely in shares of Common Stock, delivery of shares of Common
Stock (and cash in respect of fractional shares), with a Fair Market Value (on the exercise date)
equal to (i) the excess of (a) the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock (on the exercise
date) over (b) the Exercise Price of such SAR multiplied by (ii) the number of SARs exercised,
shall be effected by book-entry credit to the Grantee s Custody Account. The Grantee shall be the
beneficial owner and record holder of such shares of Common Stock properly credited to the Custody
Account on such date of delivery. No delivery of such shares of Common Stock shall be made to a
Grantee unless the Grantee has timely returned all required documentation specified in the
Grantee s Award Agreement or as otherwise required by the Committee or the SIP Administrator.

2.4.4  Repayment if Conditions Not Met . If the Committee determines that all terms and
conditions of the Plan and a Grantee s SAR Award Agreement in respect of exercised SARs were not
satisfied, then the Grantee shall be obligated to pay the Firm immediately upon demand therefor, an
amount equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value (determined at the time of exercise) of the
shares of Common Stock subject to the exercised SARs over the Exercise Price therefor, without
reduction for any amount applied to satisfy withholding tax or other obligations in respect of such
SARs.

2.5  Restricted Shares 

2.5.1  Grant . The Committee may grant or offer for sale Awards of Restricted Shares in
such amounts and subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee may determine. Upon the
issuance of such shares in the name of the Grantee, the Grantee shall have the rights of a
shareholder with respect to the Restricted Shares and shall become the record holder of such
shares, subject to the provisions of the Plan and any restrictions and conditions as the Committee
may include in the applicable Award Agreement. In the event that a Certificate is

13 

issued in respect of Restricted Shares, such Certificate may be registered in the name of the
Grantee but shall be held by a custodian (which may be GS Inc. or one of its affiliates) until the
time the restrictions lapse.

2.5.2  Repayment if Conditions Not Met . If the Committee determines that all terms and
conditions of the Plan and a Grantee s Restricted Share Award Agreement in respect of Restricted
Shares which have become Vested were not satisfied, then the Grantee shall be obligated to pay the
Firm immediately upon demand therefor, an amount equal to the Fair Market Value (determined at the
time such shares became Vested) of such Restricted Shares, without reduction for any amount applied
to satisfy withholding tax or other obligations in respect of such Restricted Shares.

2.6  RSUs 

2.6.1  Grant . The Committee may grant Awards of RSUs in such amounts and subject to
such terms and conditions as the Committee may determine. A Grantee of an RSU has only the rights
of a general unsecured creditor of GS Inc. until delivery of shares of Common Stock, cash or other
securities or property is made as specified in the applicable Award Agreement.

2.6.2  Delivery of Shares . Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, or as
otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement, and except as provided in Sections 3.3, 3.4,
3.11 and 3.17.3, and subject to Section 3.2, on each Delivery Date the number or percentage of RSU
Shares specified in the Grantee s Award Agreement with respect to the Grantee s then Outstanding
Vested RSUs (which amount may be rounded to avoid fractional RSU Shares) shall be delivered.
Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, or as otherwise provided in the applicable Award
Agreement, delivery of RSU Shares shall be effected by book-entry credit to the Grantee s Custody
Account. The Grantee shall be the beneficial owner and record holder of any RSU Shares properly
credited to the Grantee s Custody Account. No delivery of shares of Common Stock underlying a
Grantee s RSUs shall be made unless the Grantee has timely returned all required documentation
specified in the Grantee s Award Agreement or as otherwise determined by the Committee or the SIP
Administrator.

2.6.3  Repayment if Conditions Not Met . If the Committee determines that all terms and
conditions of the Plan and a Grantee s RSU Award Agreement in respect of the delivery of shares
underlying such RSUs were not satisfied, then the Grantee shall be obligated to pay the Firm
immediately upon demand therefor, an amount equal to the Fair Market Value (determined at the time
of delivery) of the shares of Common Stock delivered with respect to such Delivery Date, without
reduction for any shares applied to satisfy withholding tax or other obligations in respect of such
shares of Common Stock.

14 

2.7  Other Stock-Based Awards 

The Committee may grant other types of equity-based or equity-related Awards (including the
grant or offer for sale of unrestricted shares of Common Stock) in such amounts and subject to such
terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine. Such Awards may entail the transfer of
actual shares of Common Stock to Plan participants, or payment in cash or otherwise of amounts
based on the value of shares of Common Stock, and may include, without limitation, Awards designed
to comply with or take advantage of the applicable local laws of jurisdictions other than the
United States.

2.8  Dividend Equivalent Rights 

2.8.1  Grant . The Committee may grant, either alone or in connection with any other
Award, a Dividend Equivalent Right.

2.8.2  Payment . The Committee shall determine whether payments in connection with a
Dividend Equivalent Right shall be made in cash, in shares of Common Stock or in another form,
whether they shall be conditioned upon the exercise of any Award to which they relate, the time or
times at which they shall be made and such other terms and conditions as the Committee shall deem
appropriate.

2.8.3  Certain Section 162(m) Related Conditions . No Dividend Equivalent Right shall
be conditioned on the exercise of any Option or SAR, if and to the extent such Dividend Equivalent
Right would cause the compensation payable to a  covered employee  as a result of the related
Option or SAR not to constitute performance-based compensation under Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the
Code.

2.9  Adoption of Standardized Award Terms and Conditions 

The Committee may, in its discretion, adopt standardized terms and conditions that, unless and
to the extent a Grantee s Award Agreement expressly provides otherwise, shall apply to such Awards
as may be determined by the Committee in its discretion. Any such standardized terms and
conditions shall have the same force and effect as if expressly incorporated into the Plan and each
applicable Award Agreement.

15 

ARTICLE III 

MISCELLANEOUS 

3.1  Amendment of the Plan or Award Agreement 

3.1.1 Unless otherwise provided in the Plan or in an Award Agreement, the Board may from time
to time suspend, discontinue, revise or amend the Plan in any respect whatsoever, including in any
manner that adversely affects the rights, duties or obligations of any Grantee of an Award.

3.1.2 Unless otherwise determined by the Board, shareholder approval of any suspension,
discontinuance, revision or amendment shall be obtained only to the extent necessary to comply with
any applicable law, rule or regulation; provided, however ,  if and to the extent the Board
determines that it is appropriate for Awards granted under the Plan to constitute performance-based
compensation within the meaning of Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code, no amendment that would
require stockholder approval in order for amounts paid pursuant to the Plan to constitute
performance-based compensation within the meaning of Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code shall be
effective without the approval of the stockholders of GS Inc. as required by Section 162(m) of the
Code and the regulations thereunder and, if and to the extent the Board determines it is
appropriate for the Plan to comply with the provisions of Section 422 of the Code, no amendment
that would require stockholder approval under Section 422 of the Code shall be effective without
the approval of the stockholders of GS Inc.

3.2  Tax Withholding 

3.2.1 As a condition to the delivery of any shares of Common Stock, other property or cash
pursuant to any Award or the lifting or lapse of restrictions on any Award, or in connection with
any other event that gives rise to a federal or other governmental tax withholding obligation on
the part of the Firm relating to an Award (including, without limitation, FICA tax), (a) the Firm
may deduct or withhold (or cause to be deducted or withheld) from any payment or distribution to
the Grantee, whether or not pursuant to the Plan, (b) the Committee shall be entitled to require
that the Grantee remit cash to the Firm (through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (c) the Firm
may enter into any other suitable arrangements to withhold, in each case in an amount sufficient in
the opinion of the Firm to satisfy such withholding obligation.

3.2.2 If the event giving rise to the withholding obligation involves a transfer of shares of
Common Stock, then, at the discretion of the Committee, the Grantee may satisfy the withholding
obligation described under Section 3.2.1 by electing to have GS Inc. withhold shares

16 

of Common Stock (which withholding, unless otherwise provided in the applicable Award
Agreement, will be at a rate not in excess of the statutory minimum rate) or by tendering
previously owned shares of Common Stock, in each case having a Fair Market Value equal to the
amount of tax to be withheld (or by any other mechanism as may be required or appropriate to
conform with local tax and other rules). For this purpose, Fair Market Value shall be determined
as of the date on which the amount of tax to be withheld is determined (and GS Inc. may cause any
fractional share amount to be settled in cash).

3.3  Required Consents and Legends 

3.3.1 If the Committee shall at any time determine that any consent (as hereinafter defined)
is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of any Award, the
delivery of shares of Common Stock or the delivery of any cash, securities or other property under
the Plan, or the taking of any other action thereunder (each such action being hereinafter referred
to as a  plan action ), then such plan action shall not be taken, in whole or in part, unless and
until such consent shall have been effected or obtained to the full satisfaction of the Committee.
The Committee may direct that any Certificate evidencing shares delivered pursuant to the Plan
shall bear a legend setting forth such restrictions on transferability as the Committee may
determine to be necessary or desirable, and may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order
against any legended shares.

3.3.2 By accepting an Award, each Grantee shall have expressly provided consent to the items
described in Section 3.3.3(d) hereof.

3.3.3 The term  consent  as used herein with respect to any plan action includes (a) any and
all listings, registrations or qualifications in respect thereof upon any securities exchange or
under any federal, state or local law, or law, rule or regulation of a jurisdiction outside the
United States, (b) any and all written agreements and representations by the Grantee with respect
to the disposition of shares, or with respect to any other matter, which the Committee may deem
necessary or desirable to comply with the terms of any such listing, registration or qualification
or to obtain an exemption from the requirement that any such listing, qualification or registration
be made, (c) any and all other consents, clearances and approvals in respect of a plan action by
any governmental or other regulatory body or any stock exchange or self-regulatory agency, (d) any
and all consents by the Grantee to (i) the Firm s supplying to any third party recordkeeper of the
Plan such personal information as the Committee deems advisable to administer the Plan, (ii) the
Firm s deducting amounts from the Grantee s wages, or another arrangement satisfactory to the
Committee, to reimburse the Firm for advances made on the Grantee s behalf to satisfy certain
withholding and other tax obligations in connection with an Award and (iii) the Firm s imposing
sales and transfer procedures and restrictions and hedging restrictions on shares of Common Stock
delivered under the Plan and (e) any and all consents or authorizations required to comply with, or
required to be obtained under, applicable

17 

local law or otherwise required by the Committee. Nothing herein shall require GS Inc. to
list, register or qualify the shares of Common Stock on any securities exchange.

3.4  Right of Offset 

The Firm shall have the right to offset against its obligation to deliver shares of Common
Stock (or other property or cash) under the Plan or any Award Agreement any outstanding amounts
(including, without limitation, travel and entertainment or advance account balances, loans,
repayment obligations under any Awards, or amounts repayable to the Firm pursuant to tax
equalization, housing, automobile or other employee programs) the Grantee then owes to the Firm and
any amounts the Committee otherwise deems appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or
agreement.

3.5  Nonassignability 

Except to the extent otherwise expressly provided in the applicable Award Agreement, no Award
(or any rights and obligations thereunder) granted to any person under the Plan may be sold,
exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated, fractionalized, hedged or otherwise
disposed of (including through the use of any cash-settled instrument), whether voluntarily or
involuntarily, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and all such Awards
(and any rights thereunder) shall be exercisable during the life of the Grantee only by the Grantee
or the Grantee s legal representative. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Committee may
permit, under such terms and conditions that it deems appropriate in its sole discretion, a Grantee
to transfer any Award to any person or entity that the Committee so determines. Any sale,
exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other
disposition in violation of the provisions of this Section 3.5 shall be void. All of the terms and
conditions of this Plan and the Award Agreements shall be binding upon any permitted successors and
assigns.

3.6 
       
      Requirement of Consent and Notification of Election Under Section 83(b) of
the Code or Similar Provision  

No election under Section 83(b) of the Code (to include in gross income in the year of
transfer the amounts specified in Code Section 83(b)) or under a similar provision of the law of a
jurisdiction outside the United States may be made unless expressly permitted by the terms of the
Award Agreement or by action of the Committee in writing prior to the making of such election. If
a Grantee of an Award, in connection with the acquisition of shares of Common Stock under the Plan
or otherwise, is expressly permitted under the terms of the Award Agreement or by such Committee
action to make any such election and the Grantee makes the election, the Grantee shall notify the
Committee of such election within ten (10) days of filing

18 

notice of the election with the Internal Revenue Service or other governmental authority, in
addition to any filing and notification required pursuant to regulations issued under Code
Section 83(b) or other applicable provision.

3.7 
       
      Requirement of Notification Upon Disqualifying Disposition Under Section 421(b)
of the Code  

If any Grantee shall make any disposition of shares of Common Stock delivered pursuant to the
exercise of an Incentive Stock Option under the circumstances described in Section 421(b) of the
Code (relating to certain disqualifying dispositions), such Grantee shall notify GS Inc. of such
disposition within ten (10) days thereof.

3.8  Change in Control 

3.8.1 The Committee may provide in any Award Agreement for provisions relating to a Change in
Control, including, without limitation, the acceleration of the exercisability of, or the lapse of
restrictions or deemed satisfaction of goals with respect to, any Outstanding Awards.

3.8.2 Unless otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement and except as otherwise
determined by the Committee, in the event of a merger, consolidation, mandatory share exchange or
other similar business combination of GS Inc. with or into any other entity ( successor entity ) or
any transaction in which another person or entity acquires all of the issued and outstanding Common
Stock of GS Inc., or all or substantially all of the assets of GS Inc., Outstanding Awards may be
assumed or a substantially equivalent Award may be substituted by such successor entity or a parent
or subsidiary of such successor entity, and such an assumption or substitution shall not be deemed
to violate this Plan or any provision of any Award Agreement.

3.9  Other Conditions to Awards  

Unless the Committee determines otherwise, the Grantee s rights in respect of all of his or
her Outstanding Awards (whether or not Vested) shall immediately terminate and such Awards shall
cease to be Outstanding if: (a) the Grantee attempts to have any dispute under the Plan or his or
her Award Agreement resolved in any manner that is not provided for by Section 3.17, (b) the
Grantee in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicits any Client to transact business with a
Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the Firm or (2)
interferes with or damages (or attempts to interfere with or damage) any relationship between the
Firm and any Client or (3) Solicits any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign from the
Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive

19 

Enterprise, (c) the Grantee fails to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures
established by the Committee, that the Grantee has complied, or the Committee determines that the
Grantee in fact has failed to comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan or Award
Agreement or (d) any event constituting Cause occurs with respect to the Grantee. By exercising
any Option or SAR or by accepting delivery of shares of Common Stock or any other payment under
this Plan, the Grantee shall be deemed to have represented and certified at such time that the
Grantee has complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and the Award Agreement.

3.10  Right of Discharge Reserved 

Neither the grant of an Award nor any provision in the Plan or in any Award Agreement shall
confer upon any Grantee the right to continued Employment by the Firm or affect any right that the
Firm may have to terminate or alter the terms and conditions of the Grantee s Employment.

3.11  Nature and Form of Payments 

3.11.1 Any and all grants of Awards and deliveries of shares of Common Stock, cash or other
property under the Plan shall be in consideration of services performed or to be performed for the
Firm by the Grantee. Awards under the Plan may, in the sole discretion of the Committee, be made
in substitution in whole or in part for cash or other compensation otherwise payable to an
Employee. Without limitation on Section 1.3 hereof, unless otherwise specifically provided in an
Award Agreement or by applicable law, the Committee shall be permitted with respect to any or all
Awards to exercise all of the rights described in Section 1.3.2(h) and 1.3.2(i). Deliveries of
shares of Common Stock may be rounded to avoid fractional shares. In addition, the Firm may pay
cash in lieu of fractional shares.

3.11.2 All grants of Awards and deliveries of shares of Common Stock, cash or other property
under the Plan shall constitute a special discretionary incentive payment to the Grantee and shall
not be required to be taken into account in computing the amount of salary or compensation of the
Grantee for the purpose of determining any contributions to or any benefits under any pension,
retirement, profit-sharing, bonus, life insurance, severance or other benefit plan of the Firm or
under any agreement with the Grantee, unless the Firm specifically provides otherwise.

3.12  Non-Uniform Determinations 

None of Committee s determinations under the Plan and Award Agreements need to be uniform and
any such determinations may be made by it selectively among persons who receive, or are eligible to
receive, Awards under the Plan (whether or not such persons are

20 

similarly situated). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee shall be
entitled, among other things, to make non-uniform and selective determinations under Award
Agreements, and to enter into non-uniform and selective Award Agreements, as to (a) the persons to
receive Awards, (b) the terms and provisions of Awards, (c) whether a Grantee s Employment has been
terminated for purposes of the Plan and (d) any adjustments to be made to Awards pursuant to
Section 1.6.2 or otherwise.

3.13  Other Payments or Awards 

Nothing contained in the Plan shall be deemed in any way to limit or restrict the Firm from
making any award or payment to any person under any other plan, arrangement or understanding,
whether now existing or hereafter in effect.

3.14  Plan Headings; References to Laws, Rules or Regulations 

The headings in this Plan are for the purpose of convenience only, and are not intended to
define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

Any reference in this Plan to any law, rule or regulation shall be deemed to include any
amendments, revisions or successor provisions to such law, rule or regulation.

3.15  Date of Adoption and Term of Plan; Shareholder Approval Required 

The 1999 SIP was originally adopted by the Board on April 30, 1999 and was amended and
restated by the Board on January 16, 2003. The adoption of the Plan as amended and restated on
January 16, 2003 was conditioned on the approval of the stockholders of GS Inc. in accordance with
Treasury Regulation  1.162-27(e)(4), Section 422 of the Code, the rules of the New York Stock
Exchange and other applicable law, and such approval was obtained on April 1, 2003. The Plan was
further amended and restated effective as of December 31, 2008. Unless sooner terminated by the
Board, the Plan shall terminate on the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date. The Board reserves
the right to terminate the Plan at any time. All Awards made under the Plan prior to the
termination of the Plan shall remain in effect until such Awards have been satisfied or terminated
in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Plan and the applicable Award Agreements.

21 

3.16  Governing Law 

All rights and obligations under the Plan and each Award Agreement shall be governed by
and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to principles of
conflict of laws.  

3.17  Arbitration 

3.17.1 Unless otherwise specified in an applicable Award Agreement, it shall be a condition of
each Award that any dispute, controversy or claim between the Firm and a Grantee, arising out of or
relating to or concerning the Plan or applicable Award Agreement, shall be finally settled by
arbitration in New York City before, and in accordance with the rules then obtaining of, the New
York Stock Exchange, Inc. (the  NYSE ) or, if the NYSE declines to arbitrate the matter in New York
City (or if the matter otherwise is not arbitrable by it), the American Arbitration Association
(the  AAA ) in accordance with the commercial arbitration rules of the AAA. Prior to arbitration,
all claims maintained by the Grantee must first be submitted to the Committee in accordance with
claims procedures determined by the Committee. This Section is subject to the provisions of
Sections 3.17.2 and 3.17.3 below.

3.17.2 Unless otherwise specified in an applicable Award Agreement, it shall be a condition of
each Award that the Firm and the Grantee irrevocably submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of any
state or federal court located in the city of New York over any suit, action or proceeding arising
out of or relating to or concerning the Plan or the Award that is not otherwise arbitrated or
resolved according to Section 3.17.1. This includes any suit, action or proceeding to compel
arbitration or to enforce an arbitration award. By accepting an Award, the Grantee acknowledges
that the forum designated by this Section 3.17.2 has a reasonable relation to the Plan, any
applicable Award and to the Grantee s relationship with the Firm. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
nothing herein shall preclude the Firm from bringing any suit, action or proceeding in any other
court for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Section 3.17 or otherwise.

3.17.3 Unless otherwise specified in an applicable Award Agreement, the agreement by the
Grantee and the Firm as to forum is independent of the law that may be applied in the suit, action
or proceeding and the Grantee and the Firm agree to such forum even if the forum may under
applicable law choose to apply non-forum law. By accepting an Award, (a) the Grantee waives, to
the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection which the Grantee may have to
personal jurisdiction or to the laying of venue of any such suit, action or proceeding in any court
referred to in Section 3.17.2, (b) the Grantee undertakes not to commence any action arising out of
or relating to or concerning any Award in any forum other than a forum described in Section 3.17
and (c) the Grantee agrees that, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, a final and
non-appealable judgment in any such suit, action or proceeding in any such court shall be
conclusive and binding upon the Grantee and the Firm.

22 

3.17.4 Unless otherwise specified in an applicable Award Agreement, by accepting an Award, the
Grantee irrevocably appoints each General Counsel of GS Inc. as his or her agent for service of
process in connection with any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to or
concerning this Plan or any Award which is not arbitrated pursuant to the provisions of
Section 3.17.1, who shall promptly advise the Grantee of any such service of process.

3.17.5 Unless otherwise specified in an applicable Award Agreement, by accepting an Award, the
Grantee agrees to keep confidential the existence of, and any information concerning, a dispute,
controversy or claim described in this Section 3.17, except that the Grantee may disclose
information concerning such dispute, controversy or claim to the arbitrator or court that is
considering such dispute, controversy or claim or to his or her legal counsel (provided that such
counsel agrees not to disclose any such information other than as necessary to the prosecution or
defense of the dispute, controversy or claim).

3.18  Severability; Entire Agreement 

If any of the provisions of this Plan or any Award Agreement is finally held to be invalid,
illegal or unenforceable (whether in whole or in part), such provision shall be deemed modified to
the extent, but only to the extent, of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability and the
remaining provisions shall not be affected thereby; provided that, if any of such provisions is
finally held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable because it exceeds the maximum scope
determined to be acceptable to permit such provision to be enforceable, such provision shall be
deemed to be modified to the minimum extent necessary to modify such scope in order to make such
provision enforceable hereunder. By accepting an Award, the Grantee acknowledges that the Plan and
any Award Agreements contain the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter
thereof and supersede all prior agreements, promises, covenants, arrangements, communications,
representations and warranties between them, whether written or oral with respect to the subject
matter thereof.

3.19  Waiver of Claims 

By accepting an Award, the Grantee recognizes and agrees that prior to being selected by the
Committee to receive an Award he or she has no right to any benefits under such Award.
Accordingly, in consideration of the Grantee s receipt of any Award, he or she expressly waives any
right to contest the amount of any Award, the terms of any Award Agreement, any determination,
action or omission hereunder or under any Award Agreement by the Committee, the SIP Administrator,
GS Inc. or the Board or any amendment to the Plan or any Award Agreement (other than an amendment
to this Plan or an Award Agreement to which his or her consent is expressly required by the express
terms of an Award Agreement), and the Grantee expressly waives any claim related in any way to any
Award including any claim based upon any

23 

promissory estoppel or other theory in connection with any Award and the Grantee s employment
with the Firm.

3.20  No Third Party Beneficiaries 

Except as expressly provided in an Award Agreement, neither the Plan nor any Award Agreement
shall confer on any person other than the Firm and the Grantee of the Award any rights or remedies
thereunder; provided that the exculpation and indemnification provisions of Section 1.3.5 shall
inure to the benefit of a Covered Person s estate, beneficiaries and legatees.

3.21  Limitations Imposed by Section 162(m) of the Code 

Notwithstanding any other provision hereunder, prior to a Change in Control, if and to the
extent that the Committee determines GS Inc. s federal tax deduction in respect of a particular
Grantee s Award may be limited as a result of Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee may
determine to delay delivery or payment under the Award in such manner as it deems appropriate,
including the following actions:

3.21.1 With respect to such Grantee s Options, SARs and Dividend Equivalent Rights, the
Committee may delay the payment in respect of such Options, SARs and Dividend Equivalent Rights
until a date that is within 30 Business Days after the earlier to occur of (i) the date that
compensation paid to the Grantee is no longer subject to the deduction limitation under
Section 162(m) of the Code and (ii) the occurrence of a Change in Control. In the event that a
Grantee exercises an Option or SAR or would receive a payment in respect of a dividend equivalent
right at a time when the Grantee is a  covered employee  and the Committee determines to delay the
payment in respect of any such Award, the Committee shall credit cash, or, in the case of an amount
payable in Common Stock, the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock, payable to the Grantee to a
book account. The Grantee shall have no rights in respect of such book account, and the amount
credited thereto shall be subject to the transfer restrictions in Section 3.5. The Committee may
credit additional amounts to such book account as it may determine in its sole discretion. Any
book account created hereunder shall represent only an unfunded unsecured promise to pay the amount
credited thereto to the Grantee in the future.

3.21.2 With respect to such Grantee s Restricted Shares, the Committee may require the Grantee
to surrender to the Committee any certificates and agreements with respect to such Restricted
Shares in order to cancel the Awards of Restricted Shares. In exchange for such cancellation, the
Committee shall credit the Fair Market Value of the Restricted Shares subject to such Awards to a
book account. The amount credited to the book account shall be paid to the Grantee within 30
Business Days after the earlier to occur of (i) the date that compensation paid to the Grantee is
no longer subject to the deduction limitation under Section 162(m) of the Code and (ii) the
occurrence of a Change in Control. The Grantee shall have no rights in respect of

24 

such book account, and the amount credited thereto shall be subject to the transfer
restrictions in Section 3.5. The Committee may credit additional amounts to such book account as
it may determine in its sole discretion. Any book account created hereunder shall represent only
an unfunded unsecured promise to pay the amount credited thereto to the Grantee in the future.

3.21.3 With respect to such Grantee s RSUs, the Committee may elect to delay delivery of such
RSU Shares until a date that is within 30 Business Days after the earlier to occur of (i) the date
that compensation paid to the Grantee is no longer subject to the deduction limitation under
Section 162(m) of the Code and (ii) the occurrence of a Change in Control.

3.22  Certain Limitations on Transactions Involving Common Stock; Fees and Commissions 

3.22.1 Each Grantee shall be subject to, and acceptance of an Award shall constitute an
agreement to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning trading in
Common Stock, hedging or pledging and confidential or proprietary information. In addition, with
respect to any shares of Common Stock delivered to any Grantee in respect of an Award, sales of
such Common Stock shall be effected in accordance such rules and procedures as may be adopted from
time to time with respect to sales of such shares of Common Stock (which may include, without
limitation, restrictions relating to the timing of sale requests, the manner in which sales are
executed, pricing method, consolidation or aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by
the Firm).

3.22.2 Each Grantee may be required to pay any brokerage costs or other fees or expenses
associated with any Award, including without limitation, in connection with the sale of any shares
of Common Stock delivered in respect of any Award or the exercise of an Option or SAR.

3.23  Deliveries 

Deliveries of shares of Common Stock, cash or other property under the Plan shall be made to
the Grantee reasonably promptly after the Delivery Date or any other date such delivery is called
for, but in no case more than thirty (30) Business Days after such date.

3.24  Successors and Assigns of GS Inc. 

The terms of this Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of GS Inc. and its
successors and assigns.

25 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, and as evidence of the adoption of this amended and restated Plan
effective as of December 31, 2008 by GS Inc., it has caused the same to be signed by its duly
authorized officer this 21st day of January, 2009.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 

By:   
     /s/ Esta E. Stecher

Name:   
     Esta E. Stecher  

Title:   
     Executive Vice President and
General Counsel  

26 

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.36>
 8
 y74032exv10w36.htm
 EX-10.36: FORM OF YEAR-END OPTION AWARD AGREEMENT

EX-10.36 

Exhibit 10.36 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
_____YEAR-END OPTION AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the    Year-End award (this
 Award ) of Nonqualified Stock Options ( Year-End Options ) granted to you under The Goldman Sachs
Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.

2.  Award . The Award Statement delivered to you sets forth (i) the Date of Grant of
the Year-End Options, (ii) the number of Year-End Options, (iii) the Exercise Price of each
Year-End Option, (iv) the Vesting Dates for the Year-End Options, (v) the Initial Exercisability
Dates for the Year-End Options and (vi) the Transferability Date (as defined below) for the shares
underlying your Year-End Options. Until shares of Common Stock ( Shares ) are delivered to you
pursuant to Paragraph 7 after you exercise your Year-End Options, you have no rights as a
shareholder of GS Inc. In addition, as set forth in your Award Statement, Shares delivered
pursuant to the exercise of your Year-End Options may be subject to transfer restrictions as
described in Paragraph 6(e) below.   This Award is conditioned on your executing the related
signature card and returning it to the address designated on the signature card and/or by the
method designated on the signature card by the date specified, and is subject to all terms,
conditions and provisions of the Plan and this Award Agreement, including, without limitation, the
arbitration and choice of forum provisions set forth in Paragraph 13  .   By executing the
related signature card (which, among other things, opens the custody account referred to in
paragraph 7 if you have not done so already), you will have confirmed your acceptance of all of the
terms and conditions of this Award Agreement.  

3.  Expiration Date . The Expiration Date for your Year-End Options is     
 (in New York).    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award Agreement,
but subject to earlier termination as provided in this Award Agreement or otherwise in accordance
with the Plan, on the Expiration Date all of your then Outstanding Year-End Options shall
terminate.

4.  Vesting .

(a)  In General . Except as provided below in Paragraphs 4(b), 4(c), 4(d), 5(a), 5(b),
10(g), 10(i) and 11, on each Vesting Date you shall become Vested in the number or percentage of
your Year-End Options specified next to such Vesting Date on the Award Statement (which may be
rounded to avoid fractional Shares). While continued active Employment is not required in order
for your Outstanding Vested Year-End Options to become exercisable, all other terms and conditions
of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply to such Vested Year-End Options, and failure to
meet such terms and conditions may result in the termination of this Award (as a result of which no
Shares subject to any such Vested Year-End Options would be delivered).

(b)  Death . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement (except
Paragraph 10(i)), if you die prior to an applicable Vesting Date, as soon as practicable after the
date of death and after such documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to the
Committee, any such Year-End Options that were Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested
immediately prior to your death shall become Vested, but all other conditions of this Award
Agreement shall continue to apply.

(c)  Extended Absence, Retirement and Downsizing .

(i) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraph
5(c), in the event of the termination of your Employment (determined as described in Section 1.2.19
of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement (as defined below), the condition set
forth in Paragraph 5(a) shall be waived with respect to any Year-End Options that were Outstanding
but that had not yet become Vested immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result
of which such Year-End Options shall become Vested), but all other conditions of this Award
Agreement shall continue to apply. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan or
otherwise,  Retirement  means termination of your Employment (other than for Cause) on or after the
Date of Grant at a time when (A) the sum of your age plus years of service with the Firm (as
determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) equals or exceeds 60, (B) you have completed at
least ten (10) years of service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole
discretion), and (C) you have completed one year of service with the Firm following the Date of
Grant (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion).

(ii) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement and subject to your executing
such general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability,
both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee, if your Employment is terminated without
Cause solely by reason of a  downsizing,  the condition set forth in Paragraph 5(a) shall be waived
with respect to your Year-End Options that were Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested
immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such Year-End Options
shall become Vested), but all other conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply.
Whether or not your Employment is terminated solely by reason of a  downsizing  shall be determined
by the Firm in its sole discretion. No termination of Employment initiated by you, including any
termination claimed to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination for good
reason, will be solely by reason of a  downsizing. 

(d)  Change in Control . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement
(except Paragraph 10(i)), if there is a Change in Control and your Employment terminates as
described in Paragraph 6(d), the condition set forth in Paragraph 5(a) shall be waived with respect
to any Year-End Options that were Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested immediately prior
to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such Year-End Options shall become Vested),
but all other terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply.

5.  Termination of Year-End Options Upon Certain Events .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 4(b),
4(c), 4(d) and 10(g), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer
actively employed with the Firm, your rights in respect of your Year-End Options that were
Outstanding but had not yet become Vested immediately prior to your termination of Employment
immediately shall terminate.

(b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, your rights in respect of all of your
Outstanding Year-End Options (whether or not Vested) shall immediately terminate, such Year-End
Options shall cease to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof, if at
any time prior to the date you exercise such Year-End Options:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 13 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

-2- 

(iii) (A) you in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring, of any
Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or
are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected
Firm Personnel;

(iv) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By exercising any
Year-End Option under this Award Agreement, or by accepting the delivery of Shares under this Award
Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and certified at such time that you have
complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement;

(v) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party;

(vi) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for exercise of your Year-End Options or delivery of Shares in respect thereto are
invalid; or

(vii) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace or substitute for, or otherwise in respect of, any
Outstanding Year-End Options.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (i) any Firm employee or
consultant (A) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (B) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (ii) any Managing Director of the Firm.

For the avoidance of doubt, failure to pay or reimburse the Firm, upon demand, for any amount you
owe to the Firm shall constitute (i) failure to meet an obligation you have under an agreement
referred to in Paragraph 5(b)(v), regardless of whether such obligation arises under a written
agreement, and/or (ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting Cause referred to in
Paragraph 5(b)(ii)).

(c) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 5(b), your Outstanding Year-End Options that
become Vested in accordance with Paragraph 4(c)(i) immediately shall terminate, and such
Outstanding Year-End Options shall cease to be Outstanding if, prior to the original Vesting Date
with respect to such Year-End Options, you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership,
voting or profit participation interest in, any Competitive Enterprise, or (ii) associate in any
capacity (including, but not limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner, director,
consultant, agent or advisor) with any Competitive Enterprise. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
unless otherwise determined by the Committee in its discretion, this

-3- 

Paragraph 5(c) will not apply if your termination of Employment by reason of Extended Absence
or Retirement is characterized by the Firm as  involuntary  or by  mutual agreement  other than for
Cause and if you execute such a general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any
associated tax liability, both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee. No termination of
Employment initiated by you, including any termination claimed to be a  constructive termination 
or the like or a termination for good reason, will constitute an  involuntary  termination of
Employment or a termination of Employment by  mutual agreement. 

6.  Exercisability of Year-End Options .

(a)  In General . Only Year-End Options that are Outstanding and Vested can be
exercised. Outstanding Vested Year-End Options must be exercised subject to Paragraph 6(e) and in
accordance with procedures established by the Committee from time to time but, subject to
Paragraphs 6(b), 6(d) and 10(g), not earlier than the applicable Initial Exercise Date. Except as
otherwise provided in this Award Agreement, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than thirty
(30) Business Days) after each date specified as the Initial Exercise Date on your Award Statement,
the number or percentage of your Year-End Options specified next to such Initial Exercise Date on
the Award Statement that are Outstanding and Vested will become exercisable. If the applicable
Initial Exercise Date is not during a Window Period, such Year-End Options will become exercisable
on a date specified by the Committee that is not more than 30 Business Days after the first Trading
Day of the first Window Period that begins thereafter. For this purpose, a  Trading Day  is a day
on which Shares trade regular way on the New York Stock Exchange. The Committee may from time to
time prescribe periods during which the Vested Year-End Options shall not be exercisable. In
addition, the exercise procedures established by the Committee may require you to take specific
steps in order to exercise your Year-End Options within a minimum time prior to the effective date
of exercise.

(b)  Death . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement (except
Paragraph 10(i)), if you die and, at the time of your death, you have any Outstanding Year-End
Options or any Restricted Shares (as defined in Paragraph 6(e)):

(i) the Transfer Restrictions described in Paragraph 6(e) shall cease to apply to any
Restricted Shares (as defined in Paragraph 6(e)) and shall not apply to any Shares acquired in
connection with any subsequent exercise of Year-End Options, and

(ii) subject to Paragraph 9, such Outstanding Year-End Options (A) shall be exercisable by the
representative of your estate or, to the extent you specifically bequeath any of your Outstanding
Year-End Options under your will in accordance with such procedures, if any, as may be adopted by
the Committee to an organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such
other similar charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee) (a  Charitable
Beneficiary ), by the Charitable Beneficiary, in either case in accordance with Paragraph 6(a)
beginning on the date that is as soon as practicable after the date of death and after such
documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to the Committee and (B) unless
earlier terminated in accordance with the terms of this Award Agreement, shall remain exercisable
until the Expiration Date.

(c)  Other Terminations of Employment . Subject to Paragraphs 5(b), 5(c) and 10(i),
upon the termination of your Employment for any reason (other than death or Cause), but subject to
Paragraphs 6(d) and 10(g), your then Outstanding Vested Year-End Options shall be exercisable in
accordance with Paragraph 6(a) beginning on the applicable Initial Exercise Date and, unless
earlier terminated in accordance with the terms of this Award Agreement, shall remain exercisable
until the Expiration Date.

(d)  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement (except Paragraph 10(i)), if a Change in Control shall occur, and within 18 months
thereafter the Firm terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your Employment for
Good Reason, as

-4- 

provided in Paragraph 4(d), (i) all of your Year-End Options that were Outstanding but that
had not yet become Vested immediately prior to your termination of Employment, shall become Vested,
(ii) all of your Outstanding Vested Year-End Options shall become exercisable and, unless earlier
terminated in accordance with the terms of this Award Agreement, shall remain exercisable until the
Expiration Date, and (iii) the Transfer Restrictions described in Paragraph 6(e) will cease to
apply.

(e)  Transfer Restrictions on Shares after Exercise . Subject to Paragraphs 6(b), 6(d)
and 10(g), notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, (i) (A) no sale, exchange,
transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other disposition of
(including through the use of any cash-settled instrument) any Shares acquired in connection with
the exercise of your Year-End Options, whether voluntarily or involuntarily by you; and (B) no
exercise of any Year-End Options involving the sale of Shares acquired in respect of such exercise
(the restrictions in clauses (i)(A) and (i)(B) of this Paragraph 6(e) being referred to
collectively as the  Transfer Restrictions ) may be effected before the transferability date
specified on your Award Statement (the  Transferability Date ), and any purported sale, exchange,
transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge, other disposition or
exercise in violation of the Transfer Restrictions shall be void; and (ii) if and to the extent
Shares subject to your Year-End Options are certificated, the certificates representing such
Shares, shall bear a legend specifying that such Shares are subject to the restrictions described
in this Paragraph 6(e) and GS Inc. shall advise its transfer agent to place a stop order against
the transfer of such Shares in violation of such Transfer Restrictions. Any Shares acquired in
connection with any exercise of your Year-End Options prior to the Transferability Date (such
Shares,  Restricted Shares ) shall be held in the Custody Account or other account designated by
the Firm. Within 30 Business Days after the Transferability Date (or any other date for which
removal of the Transfer Restrictions is called for), GS Inc. shall take, or shall cause to be
taken, such steps as may be necessary to remove the Transfer Restrictions.

(f)  Forfeiture of Restricted Shares . Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and
except as provided in Paragraph 6(b), 6(d) and  10(g), your rights in respect of any Restricted
Shares immediately shall terminate and such Restricted Shares shall be cancelled if:

(i) any event constituting Cause has occurred;

(ii) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party; or

(iii) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Restricted Shares.

For the avoidance of doubt, failure to pay or reimburse the Firm, upon demand, for any amount you
owe to the Firm, shall constitute (i) failure to meet an obligation you have under an agreement
referred to in Paragraph 6(f)(ii), regardless of whether such obligation arises under a written
agreement, and/or (ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting Cause referred to in
Paragraph 6(f)(i).

7.  Delivery .

(a) Subject to Section 6(e), unless otherwise determined by the Committee, or as otherwise
provided in this Award Agreement, including, without limitation, Paragraphs 10 and 11, after
receipt of payment of the Exercise Price in respect of a Year-End Option, a Share shall be
delivered by book-entry credit to your Custody Account or to a brokerage account, as approved or
required by the Firm, and until the

-5- 

Transferability Date, shall be subject to the Transfer Restrictions. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if you are or become considered by GS Inc. to be one of its  covered employees  within
the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then you shall be subject to the provisions of Section
3.21.1 of the Plan, as a result of which delivery of your Shares may be delayed. In accordance
with Section 1.3.2(h) of the Plan, in the discretion of the Committee, in lieu of all or any
portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable upon the exercise of all or any portion of your
Year-End Options, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other Awards or other property, and
all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of Shares shall include such deliveries of
cash, other securities, other Awards or other property.

(b) In the discretion of the Committee, delivery of Shares (including Restricted Shares) may
be made initially into an escrow account meeting such terms and conditions as are determined by the
Firm and may be held in that escrow account until such time as the Committee has received such
documentation as it may have requested or until the Committee has determined that any other
conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares required by this Award Agreement have been
satisfied. By accepting your Year-End Options, you have agreed on behalf of yourself (and your
estate or other permitted beneficiary) that the Firm may establish and maintain an escrow account
on such terms and conditions (which may include, without limitation, your executing any documents
related to, and your paying for any costs associated with, such escrow account) as the Firm may
deem necessary or appropriate. Any such escrow arrangement shall, unless otherwise determined by
the Firm, provide that (A) the escrow agent shall have the exclusive authority to vote such Shares
while held in escrow and (B) dividends paid on such Shares held in escrow may be accumulated and
shall be paid as determined by the Firm in its discretion.

8.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.3.5 of the Plan (which requires Award
recipients to repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that all
terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such exercise were not satisfied) shall
apply to this Award.

9.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, and without limiting any permitted transfer in
accordance with Paragraph 10(g), the limitations on transferability set forth in Section 3.5 of the
Plan shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in violation of the
provisions of this Paragraph 9 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may adopt
procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of Year-End Options may transfer some or all of
their Year-End Options through a gift for no consideration to any child, stepchild, grandchild,
parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law,
son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, any
person sharing the recipient s household (other than a tenant or employee), a trust in which these
persons have more than 50% of the beneficial interest, and any other entity in which these persons
(or the recipient) own more than 50% of the voting interests.

10.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or delivery of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such
amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from
the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award. In addition, if you
are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the Firm s
   fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to provide for a reserve in
an amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated
or potential tax consequences related to your separate employment contracts by requiring you to
choose between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or
(ii) in the form

-6- 

of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award
(or any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no event, however, shall any choice you may
have under the preceding two sentences determine, or give you any discretion to affect, the timing
of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of your Year-End Options
are conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly
situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of your Year-End Options are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning
trading in Shares, hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards
(including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS
Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your Year-End
Options in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with
respect to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to
the timing of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation
or aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you understand
and agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses
associated with your Award, including without limitation, such brokerage costs or other fees or
expenses in connection with the exercise of your Year-End Options or the sale of Shares delivered
to you hereunder.

(f) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 6(e), GS Inc. may affix to Certificates
representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award Agreement upon exercise of your Year-End Options
any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to reflect any
restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS Inc. may
advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 5(b) and 6(f), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization, or any agency or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment your continued holding of your Year-End Options and/or Restricted Shares
would result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 10(g)(i), you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding Year-End Options and/or Restricted Shares;

then, in the case of Paragraph 10(g)(i) above only, the condition set forth in Paragraph 5(a) shall
be waived with respect to any Outstanding Year-End Options you then hold that had not yet become
Vested (as a result of which such Year-End Options shall become Vested) and, in the cases of
Paragraphs 10(g)(i) and 10(g)(ii) above,

-7- 

any Transfer Restrictions shall cease to apply and, at the sole discretion of the Firm, (a) such
Outstanding Year-End Options shall be cancelled and as soon as practicable after the Committee has
received satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment (the  Release Date ) you
shall receive a payment equal to the excess (if any) of (x) the Fair Market Value of a Share on the
Business Day immediately prior to the Release Date multiplied by the number of your Year-End
Options that were Outstanding immediately prior to such cancellation over (y) the Exercise Price
multiplied by the number of such Outstanding Year-End Options; (b) the Initial Exercise Date shall
become the Release Date; or (c) if and to the extent provided in any procedures adopted by the
Committee, you may be permitted to transfer your Outstanding Year-End Options for value to a party
or parties acceptable to the Firm (which may include the Firm). Notwithstanding anything else
herein, the actions described in this Paragraph 10(g) shall be permitted only at such time and if
and to the extent as would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you under Section
409A of the Code (which governs the taxation of certain deferred compensation).

(h) In addition to and without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of
the Plan, neither the Firm nor any Covered Person shall have any liability to you or any other
person for any action taken or omitted in respect of this or any other Award.

(i) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, the Plan or otherwise, by
accepting your Year-End Options, you understand and agree that, if you are or become a  senior
executive officer  (as defined in the regulations promulgated under the Emergency Economic
Stabilization Act of 2008 (the Act, together with the regulations, the  EESA )):

(i) No term or condition will apply to your Year-End Options or Restricted Shares to the
extent that such term or condition would result in a violation of the Firm s obligations under the
U.S. Treasury s TARP Capital Purchase Program (the  CPP ), as determined by the Firm in its sole
discretion;

(ii) The Firm reserves the right to add any terms or conditions to your Year-End Options or
Restricted Shares as the Firm deems necessary in its sole discretion to satisfy the Firm s
obligations under the CPP;

(iii) You will be required to repay any Shares delivered pursuant to any Year-End Options, in
accordance with Paragraph 8 and Section 2.6.3 of the Plan, as the Firm deems necessary in its sole
discretion to satisfy the Firm s obligations under the CPP; and

(iv) You agree to waive any claim against the United States or the Firm for any amendments to
your Year-End Options or Restricted Shares that the Firm deems necessary in its sole discretion to
satisfy its obligations under the CPP. This waiver includes all claims you may have under the laws
of the United States or any state related to the requirements imposed by the EESA, including
without limitation a claim for any compensation or other payments you would otherwise receive, any
challenge to the process by which the EESA was adopted and any tort or constitutional claim about
the effect of the EESA on your employment relationship.

11.  Right of Offset . Subject to Paragraph 15, the obligation to deliver Shares under
this Award Agreement upon exercise of your Year-End Options or to remove the Transfer Restrictions
is subject to Section 3.4 of the Plan, which provides for the Firm s right to offset against such
obligation any outstanding amounts you owe to the Firm and any amounts the Committee deems
appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement.

12.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and

-8- 

provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its rights to amend the Award Agreement
and the Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4) of the Plan. For the avoidance of
doubt, your acceptance of Paragraph 10(i) constitutes your consent to any amendments (including
amendments which materially adversely affect your rights and obligations) to your Year-End Options
or Restricted Shares contemplated under such Paragraph. Any amendment of this Award Agreement
shall be in writing signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons
designated by the Committee.

13.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum . BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING
THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT
TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY.

14.  Governing Law . THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.

15.  Section 409A of the Code . This Award is intended to be exempt from the provisions
of Section 409A of the Code ( Section 409A ). Notwithstanding anything else herein (but subject to
Paragraph 10(i)) or in the Plan, no action described herein, including without limitation
Paragraphs 7, 10(g) and 11, or in the Plan shall be permitted if the Firm determines such action
would result in the imposition of additional tax under Section 409A.

16.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered as of
the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

-9- 

</EX-10.36>

<EX-10.37>
 9
 y74032exv10w37.htm
 EX-10.37: FORM OF YEAR-END RSU AWARD AGREEMENT

EX-10.37 

Exhibit 10.37

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
_____ YEAR-END RSU AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the    Year-End award (this
 Award ) of RSUs ( Year-End RSUs ) granted to you under The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated
Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.   In light of the U.S. tax rules relating to deferred
compensation in Section 409A of the Code, to the extent that you are a United States taxpayer,
certain provisions of this Award Agreement and of the Plan shall apply only as provided in
Paragraph 15   . 

2.  Award . The number of Year-End RSUs subject to this Award is set forth in the Award
Statement delivered to you. An RSU is an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver (or cause to be
delivered) to you, subject to the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, a share of Common
Stock (a  Share ) on the Delivery Date or as otherwise provided herein. Until such delivery, you
have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc. In
addition, as set forth in your Award Statement, some or all of any Shares delivered pursuant to
your Year-End RSUs may be subject to transfer restrictions following the Delivery Date as described
in Paragraph 3(b)(iv) below.   This Award is conditioned on your executing the related signature
card and returning it to the address designated on the signature card and/or by the method
designated on the signature card by the date specified, and is subject to all terms, conditions and
provisions of the Plan and this Award Agreement, including, without limitation, the arbitration and
choice of forum provisions set forth in Paragraph 12  .   By executing the related signature
card (which, among other things, opens the custody account referred to in paragraph 3(   b   )
if you have not done so already), you will have confirmed your acceptance of all of the terms and
conditions of this Award Agreement.  

3.  Vesting and Delivery and Transfer Restrictions .

(a)  Vesting . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 6, 7, 9,
10 and 15, on each Vesting Date you shall become Vested in the number or percentage of Year-End
RSUs specified next to such Vesting Date on the Award Statement (which may be rounded to avoid
fractional Shares). While continued active Employment is not required in order to receive delivery
of the Shares underlying your Outstanding Year-End RSUs that are or become Vested, all other terms
and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply to such Vested Year-End RSUs, and
failure to meet such terms and conditions may result in the termination of this Award (as a result
of which no Shares underlying such Vested Year-End RSUs would be delivered).

(b)  Delivery and Transfer Restrictions .

(i) The Delivery Dates with respect to this Award shall be the dates specified (next to the
number or percentage of Year-End RSUs) as such on your Award Statement if such date is during a
Window Period or, if such date is not during a Window Period, the first Trading Day of the first
Window Period beginning after that date. For this purpose, a  Trading Day  is a day on which
Shares trade regular way on the New York Stock Exchange.

(ii) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10 and
15, in accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than
thirty (30) Business Days) after each date specified as a Delivery Date (or any other date delivery
of Shares is called for hereunder), Shares underlying the number or percentage of your then
Outstanding Year-End RSUs with respect to which such Delivery Date (or other date) has occurred
(which number of Shares may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) shall be delivered by book entry
credit to your Custody Account or to a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or become considered by GS Inc. to be one of its  covered
employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then you shall be subject to Section
3.21.3 of the Plan, as a result of which delivery of your Shares may be delayed.

(iii) In accordance with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the discretion of the
Committee, in lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable in respect of all or
any portion of your Year-End RSUs, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other Awards or
other property, and all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of Shares shall include
such deliveries of cash, other securities, other Awards or other property.

(iv) Except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 7, and 9(g), until the date specified on your
Award Statement as the  Transferability Date : (A) on each Delivery Date (or any other date
delivery of Shares is called for hereunder), 50% of gross delivered Shares underlying Year-End RSUs
identified on your Award Statement as  Base  Year-End RSUs will be subject to the  Transfer
Restrictions  (as hereinafter defined) (such Shares,  Restricted Shares ) and shall not be
permitted to be sold, exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated, fractionalized,
hedged or otherwise disposed of (including through the use of any cash-settled instrument), whether
voluntarily or involuntarily by you (collectively referred to as the  Transfer Restrictions ) and
any purported sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge
or other disposition in violation of the Transfer Restrictions shall be void; and (B) if and to the
extent your Restricted Shares are certificated, the Certificates representing the Restricted Shares
are subject to the restrictions in this Paragraph 3(b)(iv), and GS Inc. shall advise its transfer
agent to place a stop order against your Restricted Shares. Within 30 Business Days after the
Transferability Date (or any other date described herein on which the Transfer Restrictions are
removed), GS Inc. shall take, or shall cause to be taken, such steps as may be necessary to remove
the Transfer Restrictions. Year-End RSUs identified on your Award Statement as  Supplemental 
Year-End RSUs, if any, will not be subject to Transfer Restrictions.

(v) In the discretion of the Committee, delivery of Shares (including Restricted Shares) may
be made initially into an escrow account meeting such terms and conditions as are determined by the
Firm and may be held in that escrow account until such time as the Committee has received such
documentation as it may have requested or until the Committee has determined that any other
conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares required by this Award Agreement have been
satisfied. By accepting your Year-End RSUs, you have agreed on behalf of yourself (and your estate
or other permitted beneficiary) that the Firm may establish and maintain an escrow account on such
terms and conditions (which may include, without limitation, your executing any documents related
to, and your paying for any costs associated with, such escrow account) as the Firm may deem
necessary or appropriate. Any such escrow arrangement shall, unless otherwise determined by the
Firm, provide that (A) the escrow agent shall have the exclusive authority to vote such Shares

-2- 

while held in escrow and (B) dividends paid on such Shares held in escrow may be accumulated
and shall be paid as determined by the Firm in its discretion.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement (except
Paragraphs 9(i) and 15), if you die prior to the Delivery Date and/or the Transferability Date, the
Shares underlying your then Outstanding Year-End RSUs shall be delivered to the representative of
your estate and any Transfer Restrictions shall cease to apply as soon as practicable after the
date of death and after such documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to the
Committee. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you may be permitted to
specifically bequeath some or all of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs under your will to an
organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other similar
charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

4.  Termination of Year-End RSUs and Non-Delivery of Shares; Termination and Cancellation
of Restricted Shares .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 6,
7, and 9(g), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm, your rights in respect of your Year-End RSUs that were Outstanding but that
had not yet become Vested immediately prior to your termination of Employment immediately shall
terminate, such Year-End RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered in
respect thereof. Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs
3(c), 7, and 9(g), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer
actively employed with the Firm, any Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply until the
Transferability Date as provided in Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

(b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 6 and 7,
your rights in respect of all of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs (whether or not Vested) immediately
shall terminate, such Year-End RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered
in respect thereof if:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(iii) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any
Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or
are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected
Firm Personnel;

-3- 

(iv) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

(v) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party;

(vi) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for delivery of Shares in respect of this Award Agreement are invalid; or

(vii) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Outstanding Year-End RSUs.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (A) any Firm employee or
consultant (1) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (2) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (B) any Managing Director of the Firm.

(c) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraph 7, your
rights in respect of all of your Restricted Shares immediately shall terminate and such Restricted
Shares shall be cancelled if:

(i) any event constituting Cause has occurred;

(ii) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party; or

(iii) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Restricted Shares.

(d) For the avoidance of doubt, failure to pay or reimburse the Firm, upon demand, for any
amount you owe to the Firm shall constitute (i) failure to meet an obligation you have under an
agreement referred to in Paragraph 4(b)(v) and 4(c)(ii), regardless of whether such obligation
arises under a written agreement, and/or (ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting
Cause referred to in Paragraph 4(b)(ii)) and 4(c)(i).

-4- 

5.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which requires Award
recipients to repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that all
terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied) shall
apply to this Award.

6.  Extended Absence, Retirement, Downsizing and Approved Termination for Program Analysts.

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraph
6(b), in the event of the termination of your Employment (determined as described in Section 1.2.19
of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement (as defined below), the condition set
forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with respect to any Year-End RSUs that were Outstanding but
that had not yet become Vested immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of
which such Year-End RSUs shall become Vested), but all other terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement shall continue to apply (including any applicable Transfer Restrictions).
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan or otherwise,  Retirement  means termination
of your Employment (other than for Cause) on or after the Date of Grant at a time when (i) the sum
of your age plus years of service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole
discretion) equals or exceeds 60, (ii) you have completed at least ten (10) years of service with
the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion), and (iii) you have completed one
year of service with the Firm following the Date of Grant (as determined by the Committee in its
sole discretion). Any termination of Employment by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement shall
not affect any applicable Transfer Restrictions, and any Transfer Restrictions shall continue to
apply until the Transferability Date as provided in Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b), your rights in respect of your
Outstanding Year-End RSUs that become Vested in accordance with Paragraph 6(a) immediately shall
terminate, such Outstanding Year-End RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall be
delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the original Vesting Date with respect to such Year-End
RSUs, you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation
interest in, any Competitive Enterprise, or (ii) associate in any capacity (including, but not
limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor)
with any Competitive Enterprise. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise determined by the
Committee in its discretion, this Paragraph 6(b) will not apply if your termination of Employment
by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement is characterized by the Firm as  involuntary  or by
 mutual agreement  other than for Cause and if you execute such a general waiver and release of
claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability, both as may be prescribed by the Firm
or its designee. No termination of Employment initiated by you, including any termination claimed
to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination for good reason, will constitute an
 involuntary  termination of Employment or a termination of Employment by  mutual agreement. 

(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement and subject to your executing
such general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability,
both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee, if your Employment is terminated without
Cause solely by reason of a  downsizing,  the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived
with respect to your Year-End RSUs that were Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested
immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such Year-End RSUs shall
become Vested), but all other conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply (including
any applicable Transfer Restrictions). Whether or not your Employment is terminated solely by
reason of a  downsizing  shall be determined by the Firm in its sole discretion. No termination of
Employment initiated by you, including any termination claimed to be a  constructive termination 
or the like or a termination for good reason, will be solely by reason of a

-5- 

downsizing.  Your termination of Employment by reason of  downsizing  shall not affect any
applicable Transfer Restrictions, and any Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply until the
Transferability Date as provided in Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, if you are classified by the
Firm as a  program analyst,  and your Employment is terminated without Cause solely by reason of an
 approved termination  with respect to your participation in the program prior to any Vesting Date
specified on your Award Statement, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with
respect to any Year-End RSUs that were Outstanding but had not yet become Vested immediately prior
to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such Year-End RSUs shall become Vested),
but all other conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply (including any applicable
Transfer Restrictions). Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, for purposes of this
Paragraph 6(d), an  approved termination  shall mean a termination of Employment from the analyst
program where: (i) you complete your analyst program, (ii) you receive a bonus for completing the
analyst program and (iii) you terminate Employment with the Firm immediately after you complete the
analyst program, without any  stay-on  or other agreement or understanding to continue Employment
with the Firm. If you agree to stay with the Firm as an employee after your analyst program ends
and then later terminate Employment, you will not have an  approved termination.  An  approved
termination  shall not affect any applicable Transfer Restrictions, and any Transfer Restrictions
shall continue to apply until the Transferability Date as provided in Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

7.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement (except Paragraphs 9(i) and 15), in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within
18 months thereafter the Firm terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your
Employment for Good Reason, all Shares underlying your then Outstanding Year-End RSUs, whether or
not Vested, shall be delivered and any Transfer Restrictions shall cease to apply.

8.  Dividend Equivalent Rights; Dividends . Each Year-End RSU shall include a Dividend
Equivalent Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs, at or after
the time of distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the
record date for which occurs on or after the Date of Grant, you shall be entitled to receive an
amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made
in respect of the Share underlying such Outstanding Year-End RSU. Payment in respect of a Dividend
Equivalent Right shall be made only with respect to Year-End RSUs that are Outstanding on the
relevant record date. Each Dividend Equivalent Right shall be subject to the provisions of Section
2.8.2 of the Plan. You shall be entitled to receive on a current basis any regular cash dividend
paid by GS, Inc. in respect of your Restricted Shares, or, if the Restricted Shares are held in
escrow, the Firm will direct the transfer/paying agent to distribute the dividends to you in
respect of your Restricted Shares.

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or delivery of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such
amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from
the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award. In addition, if you
are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the Firm s
   fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to

-6- 

provide for a reserve in an amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with
any actual, anticipated or potential tax consequences related to your separate employment contracts
by requiring you to choose between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction
or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered
to you pursuant to this Award (or any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no event,
however, shall any choice you may have under the preceding two sentences determine, or give you any
discretion to affect, the timing of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax
obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the Year-End RSUs are
conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly
situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of your Year-End RSUs are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning
trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards
(including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS
Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your Year-End
RSUs in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with respect
to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to the timing
of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation or
aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you understand and
agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses associated
with your Year-End RSU Award, including without limitation, such brokerage costs or other fees or
expenses in connection with the sale of Shares delivered to you hereunder.

(f) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS
Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization or any agency, or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment, your continued holding of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs and/or
Restricted Shares would result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted
Employment  or

-7- 

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9(g)(i), you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding Year-End RSUs and/or Restricted Shares;

then, in the case of Paragraph 9(g)(i) above only, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall
be waived with respect to any Year-End RSUs you then hold that had not yet become Vested (as a
result of which such Year-End RSUs shall become Vested) and, in the case of Paragraphs 9(g)(i) and
9(g)(ii) above, any Transfer Restrictions shall cease to apply, and, at the sole discretion of the
Firm, you shall receive either a lump sum cash payment in respect of, or delivery of Shares
underlying, your then Outstanding Vested Year-End RSUs, in each case as soon as practicable after
the Committee has received satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment.

(h) In addition to and without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of
the Plan, neither the Firm nor any Covered Person shall have any liability to you or any other
person for any action taken or omitted in respect of this or any other Award.

(i) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, the Plan or otherwise, by
accepting your Year-End RSUs, you understand and agree that, if you are or become a  senior
executive officer  (as defined in the regulations promulgated under the Emergency Economic
Stabilization Act of 2008 (the Act, together with the regulations, the  EESA )):

(i) No term or condition will apply to your Year-End RSUs or Restricted Shares to the extent
that such term or condition would result in a violation of the Firm s obligations under the U.S.
Treasury s TARP Capital Purchase Program (the  CPP ), as determined by the Firm in its sole
discretion;

(ii) The Firm reserves the right to add any terms or conditions to your Year-End RSUs or
Restricted Shares as the Firm deems necessary in its sole discretion to satisfy the Firm s
obligations under the CPP;

(iii) You will be required to repay any Shares delivered pursuant to any Year-End RSUs, in
accordance with Paragraph 5 and Section 2.6.3 of the Plan, as the Firm deems necessary in its sole
discretion to satisfy the Firm s obligations under the CPP; and

(iv) You agree to waive any claim against the United States or the Firm for any amendments to
your Year-End RSUs or Restricted Shares that the Firm deems necessary in its sole discretion to
satisfy its obligations under the CPP. This waiver includes all claims you may have under the laws
of the United States or any state related to the requirements imposed by the EESA, including
without limitation a claim for any compensation or other payments you would otherwise receive, any
challenge to the process by which the EESA was adopted and any tort or constitutional claim about
the effect of the EESA on your employment relationship.

10.  Right of Offset.  Except as provided in Paragraph 15(h), the obligation to deliver
Shares or to remove the Transfer Restrictions under this Award Agreement is subject to Section 3.4
of the Plan, which provides for the Firm s right to offset against such obligation any outstanding
amounts you owe to the Firm and any amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax
equalization policy or agreement.

-8- 

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend the Award Agreement and the Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4)
of the Plan. For the avoidance of doubt, your acceptance of Paragraph 9(i) constitutes your
consent to any amendments (including amendments which materially adversely affect your rights and
obligations) to your Year-End RSUs or Restricted Shares contemplated under such Paragraph. Any
amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing signed by an authorized member of the
Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.

12.   Arbitration; Choice of Forum . BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING
THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT
TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY.

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations on transferability set forth in Section
3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in violation of
the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may
adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of Year-End RSUs may transfer some or all
of their Year-End RSUs through a gift for no consideration to any child, stepchild, grandchild,
parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law,
son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, any
person sharing the recipient s household (other than a tenant or employee), a trust in which these
persons have more than 50% of the beneficial interest, and any other entity in which these persons
(or the recipient) own more than 50% of the voting interests.

14.  Governing Law . THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.

15.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan With Section 409A . The provisions of this
Paragraph 15 apply to you only if you are a United States taxpayer.

(a) References in this Award Agreement to  Section 409A  refer to Section 409A of the Code,
including any amendments or successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other
administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or
interpreted through further administrative guidance. This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions
that apply to this Award are intended and shall be construed to comply with Section 409A (including
the requirements applicable to, or the conditions for exemption from treatment as, a  deferral of
compensation  or  deferred compensation  as those terms are defined in the regulations under
Section 409A ( 409A deferred compensation ), whether by reason of short-term deferral treatment or
other exceptions or provisions). The Committee shall have full authority to give effect to this
intent. To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including, without limitation, Sections

-9- 

1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement shall
govern, and in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 15 and
the other provisions of this Award Agreement, this Paragraph 15 shall govern; provided, however, in
the event of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 15 and Paragraph 9(i),
Paragraph 9(i) will govern.

(b) Delivery of Shares shall not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable conditions
or restrictions on delivery of Shares in respect of your Year-End RSUs required by this Agreement
(including, without limitation, those specified in Paragraphs 3(b) and (c), 6(b) and (c) (execution
of waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax liability) and 9 and the
consents and other items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are satisfied, and shall occur by
March 15 of the calendar year in which the Delivery Date occurs unless, in order to permit such
conditions or restrictions to be satisfied, the Committee elects, pursuant to Treasury Regulations
section ( Reg. ) 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted in accordance with Section
409A, to delay delivery of Shares to a later date within the same calendar year or to such later
date as may be permitted under Section 409A, including, without limitation, Regs. 1.409A-2(b)(7)
(in conjunction with Section 3.21.3 of the Plan pertaining to Code Section 162(m)) and 1.409A-3(d).

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3(b)(iii) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to
the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property
that the Firm may deliver in respect of your Year-End RSUs shall not have the effect of deferring
delivery or payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the date on
which such delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would lapse, with
respect to the Shares that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a
later date for this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted
under Section 409A, including, without limitation and to the extent applicable, the subsequent
election provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).

(d) Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 3(c), the delivery of Shares referred
to therein shall be made after the date of death and during the calendar year that includes the
date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A).

(e) The delivery of Shares referred to in Paragraph 7 shall occur on the earlier of (i) the
Delivery Date or (ii) within the calendar year in which the termination of Employment occurs;
provided, however, that, if you are a  specified employee  (as defined by the Firm in accordance
with Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code), delivery shall occur on the earlier of the Delivery
Date or (to the extent required to avoid the imposition of additional tax under Section 409A) the
date that is six months after your termination of Employment (or, if the latter date is not during
a Window Period, the first trading day of the next Window Period). For purposes of Paragraph 7,
references in this Award Agreement to termination of Employment mean separation from service (as
defined by the Firm in accordance with Section 409A).

(f) Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 8 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the contrary,
the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs shall be paid
to you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any corresponding regular
cash dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for which occurs on or after
the Date of Grant. The payment shall be in an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such
regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the Shares underlying such
Outstanding Year-End RSUs.

(g) The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 9(g) shall be the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) within the calendar year in which the Committee receives satisfactory

-10- 

documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such delivery or payment shall
be made only at such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as reasonably determined by the
Firm, would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you under Section 409A.

(h) Paragraph 10 and Section 3.4 of the Plan shall not apply to Awards that are 409A deferred
compensation.

(i) Delivery of Shares in respect of any Award may be made, if and to the extent elected by
the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, in
the case of any Award that constitutes 409A deferred compensation, only to the extent that the
later delivery is permitted under Section 409A).

16.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

-11- 

</EX-10.37>

<EX-10.39>
 10
 y74032exv10w39.htm
 EX-10.39: FORM OF YEAR-END RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (FRENCH ALTERNATIVE AWARD)

EX-10.39 

Exhibit 10.39

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 

STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 

_____ YEAR-END FRENCH ALTERNATIVE RSU AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the    Year-End award (this
 Award ) of French Alternative RSUs ( Year-End French Alternative RSUs ), which is comprised of
 Base  Year-End RSUs, granted to you under The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive
Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which
are incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are
not defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References
in this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.   In light of the U.S. tax rules relating to deferred
compensation in Section 409A of the Code, to the extent that you are a United States taxpayer,
certain provisions of this Award Agreement and of the Plan shall apply only as provided in
Paragraph 15   . 

2.  Award .

(a) The number of Year-End French Alternative RSUs subject to this Award is set forth (as
    Year-End Base RSUs (French Alternative) ) in the Award Statement delivered to you. An RSU is
an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver (or cause to be delivered) to you, subject to the
terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, a share of Common Stock (a  Share ) on the Delivery
Date or as otherwise provided herein. Until such delivery, you have only the rights of a general
unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc. In addition, as set forth in your
Award Statement, all Shares delivered pursuant to your Year-End French Alternative RSUs will be
subject to transfer restrictions following the Delivery Date as described in Paragraph 3(b)(iv)
below.   This Award is conditioned on your executing the related signature card and returning it
to the address designated on the signature card and/or by the method designated on the signature
card by the date specified, and is subject to all terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement, including, without limitation, the arbitration and choice of forum provisions
set forth in Paragraph 12  .   By executing the related signature card (which, among other
things, opens the custody account referred to in paragraph 3(   b   ) if you have not done so
already), you will have confirmed your acceptance of all of the terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement.  

(b) This Award is made available to you solely because you are an employee of the Firm on the
Date of Grant who does not own shares representing 10% or more of the issued share capital of GS
Inc.

3.  Vesting and Delivery and Transfer Restrictions .

(a)  Vesting . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 6, 7, 9,
10 and 15, on each Vesting Date you shall become Vested in the number or percentage of Year-End
French

Alternative RSUs specified next to such Vesting Date on the Award Statement (which may be
rounded to avoid fractional Shares). While continued active Employment is not required in order to
receive delivery of the Shares underlying your Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs that
are or become Vested, all other terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to
apply to such Vested Year-End French Alternative RSUs, and failure to meet such terms and
conditions may result in the termination of this Award (as a result of which no Shares underlying
such Vested Year-End French Alternative RSUs would be delivered).

(b)  Delivery and Transfer Restrictions .

(i) The Delivery Dates with respect to this Award shall be the dates specified (next to the
number or percentage of Year-End French Alternative RSUs) as such on your Award Statement if such
date is during a Window Period or, if such date is not during a Window Period, the first Trading
Day of the first Window Period beginning after that date. For this purpose, a  Trading Day  is a
day on which Shares trade regular way on the New York Stock Exchange. Notwithstanding any other
provision to the contrary in this Award Agreement or your Award Statement, a Delivery Date shall
not occur prior to the expiration of a minimum period of two years following the Date of Grant,
except as provided in Paragraph 3(c) hereof.

(ii) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10 and
15, in accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than
thirty (30) Business Days) after each date specified as a Delivery Date (or any other date delivery
of Shares is called for hereunder), Shares underlying the number or percentage of your then
Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs with respect to which such Delivery Date (or other
date) has occurred (which number of Shares may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) shall be
delivered by book-entry credit to a special custody account or a special brokerage account, as
approved or required by the Firm and shall be subject to the Transfer Restrictions described in
Paragraph 3(b)(iv) hereof until the applicable  Transferability Date  (defined below) identified on
your Award Statement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or become considered by GS Inc. to
be one of its  covered employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then you shall
be subject to Section 3.21.3 of the Plan, as a result of which delivery of your Shares may be
delayed.

(iii) Notwithstanding Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, you shall receive, on
each Delivery Date, Shares only to the exclusion of cash, other securities, other Awards or other
property.

(iv) Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary in this Award Agreement (except as
provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 7 and 9(h)) or the Award Statement and except as may be determined by
the Firm in a manner it concludes, in its sole discretion, is consistent with the deferral of
French income taxes with respect to the Year-End French Alternative RSUs: (A) on each Delivery Date
(or any other date delivery of Shares is called for hereunder) and until the date specified herein
as the applicable Transferability Date (which date shall not occur prior to the expiration of a
minimum period of two years following the applicable Delivery Date) (all such dates, the
 Transferability Dates ), all of the delivered Shares underlying your Year-End French Alternative
RSUs for which the applicable Delivery Date has occurred will be subject to the  Transfer
Restrictions  (as hereinafter defined) (such Shares,  Restricted Shares ) and shall not be
permitted to be sold, exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated, fractionalized,
hedged or otherwise disposed of (including through the use of any cash-settled instrument), whether
voluntarily or involuntarily by you (collectively referred to as the  Transfer Restrictions ) and
any purported sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge
or other disposition in violation of the

-2- 

Transfer Restrictions shall be void; and (B) until the applicable Transferability Date, if and
to the extent your Restricted Shares are certificated, the Certificates representing such
Restricted Shares are subject to the restrictions in this Paragraph 3(b)(iv), and GS Inc. shall
advise its transfer agent to place a stop order against the transfer of such Restricted Shares in
violation of the Transfer Restrictions. Within 30 Business Days after the Transferability Date (or
any other date described herein on which the Transfer Restrictions are removed), GS Inc. shall
take, or shall cause to be taken, such steps as may be necessary to remove the Transfer
Restrictions. Shares underlying 50% of your French Alternative Year-End RSUs with a Delivery Date
(as specified on your Award Statement) of    will have a Transferability Date of
   . Shares underlying (i) the remaining 50% of your French Alternative Year-End RSUs with
a Delivery Date (as specified on your Award Statement) of    - and (ii) 100% of your French
Alternative Year-End RSUs with a Delivery Date (as specified on your Award Statement) of
   will have a Transferability Date of    .

(v) In the discretion of the Committee, delivery of Shares (including Restricted Shares) may
be made initially into an escrow account meeting such terms and conditions as are determined by the
Firm and may be held in that escrow account until such time as the Committee has received such
documentation as it may have requested or until the Committee has determined that any other
conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares required by this Award Agreement have been
satisfied. By accepting your French Alternative Year-End RSUs, you have agreed on behalf of
yourself (and your estate or other permitted beneficiary) that the Firm may establish and maintain
an escrow account on such terms and conditions (which may include, without limitation, your
executing any documents related to, and your paying for any costs associated with, such escrow
account) as the Firm may deem necessary or appropriate.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement (except
Paragraphs 9(j) and 15), if you die prior to the Delivery Date and/or the Transferability Date, the
Shares underlying your then Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs shall be delivered to the
representative of your estate and any Transfer Restrictions shall cease to apply as soon as
practicable after the date of death and after such documentation as may be requested by the
Committee is provided to the Committee. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you
may be permitted to specifically bequeath some or all of your Outstanding Year-End French
Alternative RSUs under your will to an organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of
the Code (or such other similar charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

4.  Termination of Year-End French Alternative RSUs and Non-Delivery of Shares;
Retrocession of Restricted Shares .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 6,
7, and 9(h), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm, your rights in respect of your Year-End French Alternative RSUs that were
Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested immediately prior to your termination of Employment
immediately shall terminate, such Year-End French Alternative RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding
and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof. Unless the Committee determines otherwise,
and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 7, and 9(h), if your Employment terminates for any
reason or you otherwise are no longer actively employed with the Firm, any Transfer Restrictions
shall continue to apply until the Transferability Date as provided in Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

-3- 

(b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 6 and 7,
your rights in respect of all of your Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs (whether or not
Vested) immediately shall terminate, such Year-End French Alternative RSUs shall cease to be
Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof if:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(iii) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any
Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or
are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected
Firm Personnel;

(iv) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

(v) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party;

(vi) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for delivery of Shares in respect of this Award Agreement are invalid; or

(vii) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (A) any Firm employee or
consultant (1) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (2) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (B) any Managing Director of the Firm.

-4- 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, your Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs with a Vesting
Date (as specified on your Award Statement) of December 31,    that become Vested will not be
subject to Paragraph 4(b)(iii) following December 31,    .

(c) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraph 7, your
rights in respect of all of your Restricted Shares immediately shall terminate and such Restricted
Shares shall be retroceded for no consideration if:

(i) any event constituting Cause has occurred;

(ii) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party; or

(iii) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Restricted Shares.

(d) For the avoidance of doubt, failure to pay or reimburse the Firm, upon demand, for any
amount you owe to the Firm shall constitute (i) failure to meet an obligation you have under an
agreement referred to in Paragraph 4(b)(v) and 4(c)(ii), regardless of whether such obligation
arises under a written agreement, and/or (ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting
Cause referred to in Paragraph 4(b)(ii)) and 4(c)(i).

5.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which requires
Award recipients to repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that
all terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied)
shall apply to this Award.

6.  Extended Absence, Retirement, Downsizing and Approved Termination for Program
Analysts. 

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraphs
3(b)(i) and 3(b)(iv) and 6(b), in the event of the termination of your Employment (determined as
described in Section 1.2.19 of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement (as defined
below), the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with respect to any Year-End
French Alternative RSUs that were Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested immediately prior
to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such Year-End French Alternative RSUs shall
become Vested), but all other terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply
(including any applicable Transfer Restrictions). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
Plan or otherwise,  Retirement  means termination of your Employment (other than for Cause) on or
after the Date of Grant at a time when (i) the sum of your age plus years of service with the Firm
(as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) equals or exceeds 60, (ii) you have
completed at least ten (10) years of service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its
sole discretion), and (iii) you have completed one year of service with the Firm following the Date
of Grant (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion). Any termination of Employment by
reason of Extended

-5- 

Absence or Retirement shall not affect any applicable Transfer Restrictions, and any Transfer
Restrictions shall continue to apply until the Transferability Date as provided in Paragraph
3(b)(iv).

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b), your rights in respect of your
Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs that become Vested in accordance with Paragraph 6(a)
immediately shall terminate, such Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs shall cease to be
Outstanding, and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the original Vesting
Date with respect to such Year-End French Alternative RSUs, you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or
greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in, any Competitive Enterprise,
or (ii) associate in any capacity (including, but not limited to, association as an officer,
employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any Competitive Enterprise.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise determined by the Committee in its discretion, this
Paragraph 6(b) will not apply if your termination of Employment by reason of Extended Absence or
Retirement is characterized by the Firm as  involuntary  or by  mutual agreement  other than for
Cause and if you execute such a general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any
associated tax liability, both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee. No termination of
Employment initiated by you, including any termination claimed to be a  constructive termination 
or the like or a termination for good reason, will constitute an  involuntary  termination of
Employment or a termination of Employment by  mutual agreement. 

(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement and subject to your executing
such general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability,
both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee, if your Employment is terminated without
Cause solely by reason of a  downsizing,  the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived
with respect to your Year-End French Alternative RSUs that were Outstanding but that had not yet
become Vested immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such
Year-End French Alternative RSUs shall become Vested), but all other conditions of this Award
Agreement shall continue to apply (including, without limitation, Paragraphs 3(b)(i) and 3(b)(iv)).
Whether or not your Employment is terminated solely by reason of a  downsizing  shall be
determined by the Firm in its sole discretion. No termination of Employment initiated by you,
including any termination claimed to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination
for good reason, will be solely by reason of a  downsizing.  Your termination of Employment by
reason of  downsizing  shall not affect any applicable Transfer Restrictions, and any Transfer
Restrictions shall continue to apply until the Transferability Date as provided in Paragraph
3(b)(iv).

(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, if you are classified by the
Firm as a  program analyst,  and your Employment is terminated without Cause solely by reason of an
 approved termination  with respect to your participation in the program prior to any Vesting Date
specified on your Award Statement, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with
respect to any Year-End French Alternative RSUs that were Outstanding but had not yet become Vested
immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such Year-End French
Alternative RSUs shall become Vested), but all other conditions of this Award Agreement shall
continue to apply (including, without limitation, Paragraphs 3(b)(i) and 3(b)(iv)). Unless
otherwise determined by the Committee, for purposes of this Paragraph 6(d), an  approved
termination  shall mean a termination of Employment from the analyst program where: (i) you
complete your analyst program, (ii) you receive a bonus for completing the analyst program and
(iii) you terminate Employment with the Firm immediately after you complete the analyst program,
without any  stay-on  or other agreement or understanding to continue Employment with the Firm. If
you agree to stay with the Firm as an employee after your analyst program ends and then later
terminate Employment, you will not have an

-6- 

approved termination.  An  approved termination  shall not affect any applicable Transfer
Restrictions, and any Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply until the Transferability Date
as provided in Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

7.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
Award Agreement (except Paragraphs 3(b)(i), 3(b)(iv), 9(j) and 15), in the event a Change in
Control shall occur and within 18 months thereafter the Firm terminates your Employment without
Cause or you terminate your Employment for Good Reason, all Shares underlying your then Outstanding
Year-End French Alternative RSUs, whether or not Vested, shall be delivered (but not earlier than
the second anniversary of the Date of Grant) and the Transfer Restrictions shall cease to apply
(but not earlier than the second anniversary of the applicable Delivery Date).

8.  Dividend Equivalent Rights; Dividends . Each Year-End French Alternative RSU shall
include a Dividend Equivalent Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding
Year-End French Alternative RSUs, at or after the time of distribution of any regular cash dividend
paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for which occurs on or after the Date of
Grant, you shall be entitled to receive an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such
regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the Share underlying such
Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSU. Payment in respect of a Dividend Equivalent Right
shall be made only with respect to Year-End French Alternative RSUs that are Outstanding on the
relevant record date. Each Dividend Equivalent Right shall be subject to the provisions of Section
2.8.2 of the Plan. You shall be entitled to receive on a current basis any regular cash dividend
paid by GS, Inc. in respect of your Restricted Shares held in a special custody account or in a
special brokerage account, and the Firm will direct the transfer/paying agent to distribute the
dividends to you in respect of your Restricted Shares.

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or delivery of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such
amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from
the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award. In addition, if you
are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the Firm s
   fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to provide for a reserve in an
amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or
potential tax consequences related to your separate employment contracts by requiring you to choose
between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in
the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this
Award (or any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no event, however, shall any choice you
may have under the preceding two sentences determine, or give you any discretion to affect, the
timing of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the Year-End French
Alternative RSUs are conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party.

-7- 

(c) Your rights in respect of your Year-End French Alternative RSUs are conditioned on the
receipt to the full satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section
3.3 of the Plan) that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning
trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards
(including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS
Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your Year-End
French Alternative RSUs in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to
time with respect to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions
relating to the timing of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method,
consolidation or aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you
understand and agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or
expenses associated with your Year-End French Alternative RSU Award, including without limitation,
such brokerage costs or other fees or expenses in connection with the sale of Shares delivered to
you hereunder.

(f) In addition to the legends described in Paragraph 3(b)(iv) hereof, GS Inc. may affix to
Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award Agreement any legend that the
Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to reflect any restrictions to which
you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS Inc. may advise the transfer agent
to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) You undertake to comply with (and take all steps requested by the Firm to assure that it
complied with) the reporting requirements to be established by French law and regulations in order
to benefit from the tax and social security regime set forth under article 83 of the Finance Bill
for 2005 (#2004-1484) dated December 30, 2004, article 41 of the law #2005-842 dated July 26, 2005
and articles 34, 39, 40 and article 41 of the Law #2006-1770 dated December 30, 2006.

(h) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization or any agency, or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment, your continued holding of your Outstanding Year-End French Alternative
RSUs and/or the Restricted Shares delivered in respect of your Year-End French Alternative RSUs
would result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9(h)(i), you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a

-8- 

time when you continue to hold Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs and/or Restricted
Shares delivered in respect of Year-End French Alternative RSUs;

then, in the case of Paragraph 9(h)(i) above only, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall
be waived with respect to any Year-End French Alternative RSUs you then hold that had not yet
become Vested (as a result of which such Year-End French Alternative RSUs shall become Vested) and,
in the case of Paragraphs 9(h)(i) and 9(h)(ii) above, any Transfer Restrictions shall cease to
apply, and, at the sole discretion of the Firm, you shall receive either a lump sum cash payment in
respect of, or delivery of Shares underlying, your then Outstanding Vested Year-End French
Alternative RSUs, in each case as soon as practicable after the Committee has received satisfactory
documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment.

(i) In addition to and without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of
the Plan, neither the Firm nor any Covered Person shall have any liability to you or any other
person for any action taken or omitted in respect of this or any other Award.

(j) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, the Plan or otherwise, by
accepting your Year-End French Alternative RSUs, you understand and agree that, if you are or
become a  senior executive officer  (as defined in the regulations promulgated under the Emergency
Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the Act, together with the regulations, the  EESA )):

(i) No term or condition will apply to your Year-End French Alternative RSUs or Restricted
Shares to the extent that such term or condition would result in a violation of the Firm s
obligations under the U.S. Treasury s TARP Capital Purchase Program (the  CPP ), as determined by
the Firm in its sole discretion;

(ii) The Firm reserves the right to add any terms or conditions to your Year-End French
Alternative RSUs or Restricted Shares as the Firm deems necessary in its sole discretion to satisfy
the Firm s obligations under the CPP;

(iii) You will be required to repay any Shares delivered pursuant to any Year-End French
Alternative RSUs, in accordance with Paragraph 5 and Section 2.6.3 of the Plan, as the Firm deems
necessary in its sole discretion to satisfy the Firm s obligations under the CPP; and

(iv) You agree to waive any claim against the United States or the Firm for any amendments to
your Year-End French Alternative RSUs or Restricted Shares that the Firm deems necessary in its
sole discretion to satisfy its obligations under the CPP. This waiver includes all claims you may
have under the laws of the United States or any state related to the requirements imposed by the
EESA, including without limitation a claim for any compensation or other payments you would
otherwise receive, any challenge to the process by which the EESA was adopted and any tort or
constitutional claim about the effect of the EESA on your employment relationship.

10.  Right of Offset.  Except as provided in Paragraph 15(h), the obligation to deliver
Shares or to remove the Transfer Restrictions under this Award Agreement is subject to Section 3.4
of the Plan, which provides for the Firm s right to offset against such obligation any outstanding
amounts you owe to the Firm and any amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax
equalization policy or agreement.

-9- 

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms
and conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend the Award Agreement and the Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4)
of the Plan. For the avoidance of doubt, your acceptance of Paragraph 9(j) constitutes your
consent to any amendments (including amendments which materially adversely affect your rights and
obligations) to your Year-End French Alternative RSUs or Restricted Shares contemplated under such
Paragraph. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing signed by an authorized
member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.

12.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum . BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING
THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT
TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY.

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations on transferability set forth in Section
3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in violation of
the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may
adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of Year-End French Alternative RSUs may
transfer some or all of their Year-End French Alternative RSUs through a gift for no consideration
to any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece,
nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law,
including adoptive relationships, any person sharing the recipient s household (other than a tenant
or employee), a trust in which these persons have more than 50% of the beneficial interest, and any
other entity in which these persons (or the recipient) own more than 50% of the voting interests.

14.  Governing Law . THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.

15.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan With Section 409A . The provisions of this
Paragraph 15 apply to you only if you are a United States taxpayer.

(a) References in this Award Agreement to  Section 409A  refer to Section 409A of the Code,
including any amendments or successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other
administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or
interpreted through further administrative guidance. This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions
that apply to this Award are intended and shall be construed to comply with Section 409A (including
the requirements applicable to, or the conditions for exemption from treatment as, a  deferral of
compensation  or  deferred compensation  as those terms are defined in the regulations under
Section 409A ( 409A deferred compensation ), whether by reason of short-term deferral treatment or
other exceptions or provisions). The Committee shall have full

-10- 

authority to give effect to this intent. To the extent necessary to give effect to this
intent, in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan
(including, without limitation, Sections 1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and this Award Agreement, the
provisions of this Award Agreement shall govern, and in the case of any conflict or potential
inconsistency between this Paragraph 15 and the other provisions of this Award Agreement, this
Paragraph 15 shall govern; provided, however, in the event of any conflict or potential
inconsistency between this Paragraph 15 and Paragraph 9(j), Paragraph 9(j) will govern.

(b) Delivery of Shares shall not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable
conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares in respect of your Year-End French Alternative
RSUs required by this Agreement (including, without limitation, those specified in Paragraphs 3(b)
and (c), 6(b) and (c) (execution of waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated
tax liability) and 9 and the consents and other items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are
satisfied, and shall occur by March 15 of the calendar year in which the Delivery Date occurs
unless, in order to permit such conditions or restrictions to be satisfied, the Committee elects,
pursuant to Treasury Regulations section ( Reg. ) 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be
permitted in accordance with Section 409A, to delay delivery of
Shares to a later date within the
same calendar year or to such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A, including, without
limitation, Regs. 1.409A-2(b)(7) (in conjunction with Section 3.21.3 of the Plan pertaining to Code
Section 162(m)) and 1.409A-3(d).

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3(b)(iii) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to
the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property
that the Firm may deliver in respect of your Year-End French Alternative RSUs shall not have the
effect of deferring delivery or payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture,
beyond the date on which such delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture
would lapse, with respect to the Shares that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the
Committee elects a later date for this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise
as may be permitted under Section 409A, including, without limitation and to the extent applicable,
the subsequent election provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).

(d) Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 3(c), the delivery of Shares referred
to therein shall be made after the date of death and during the calendar year that includes the
date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A).

(e) The delivery of Shares referred to in Paragraph 7 shall occur on the earlier of (i) the
Delivery Date or (ii) within the calendar year in which the termination of Employment occurs (but
not earlier than the second anniversary of the Date of Grant); provided, however, that, if you are
a  specified employee  (as defined by the Firm in accordance with Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the
Code), delivery shall occur on the earlier of the Delivery Date or (to the extent required to avoid
the imposition of additional tax under Section 409A) the date that is six months after your
termination of Employment (or, if the latter date is not during a Window Period, the first trading
day of the next Window Period) (but not earlier than the second anniversary of the Date of Grant).
For purposes of Paragraph 7, references in this Award Agreement to termination of Employment mean
separation from service (as defined by the Firm in accordance with Section 409A).

(f) Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 8 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the contrary,
the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding Year-End French Alternative
RSUs shall be paid to you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any

-11- 

corresponding regular cash dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for
which occurs on or after the Date of Grant. The payment shall be in an amount (less applicable
withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the
Shares underlying such Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs.

(g) The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 9(h) shall be the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) within the calendar year in which the Committee receives satisfactory
documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such delivery or payment shall
be made only at such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as reasonably determined by the
Firm, would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you under Section 409A.

(h) Paragraph 10 and Section 3.4 of the Plan shall not apply to Awards that are 409A deferred
compensation.

(i) Delivery of Shares in respect of any Award may be made, if and to the extent elected by
the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, in
the case of any Award that constitutes 409A deferred compensation, only to the extent that the
later delivery is permitted under Section 409A).

16.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:   

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

</EX-10.39>

<EX-10.41>
 11
 y74032exv10w41.htm
 EX-10.41: FORM OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR OPTION AWARD AGREEMENT

EX-10.41 

Exhibit 10.41 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
OUTSIDE DIRECTOR __________ 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of an award granted to you under The
Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) of Options to purchase shares
of Common Stock ( Shares ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan.

2.  Award . The Award Statement sets forth (i) the Date of Grant, (ii) the number of
Options granted, (iii) the per-Share Exercise Price and (iv) the Initial Exercise Date. Until the
Shares are delivered to you pursuant to Paragraph 6, you have no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc.
 This Award is subject to all terms and provisions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. 

3.  Expiration Date . Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Options shall expire and no
longer be exercisable on the Expiration Date (as identified on your Award Statement).

4.  Vesting . You shall be fully Vested in the Options on the Date of Grant.

5.  Exercisability of Vested Options .

(a)  General . To the extent Outstanding and unexercised, but subject to Paragraph 5(d)
hereof, the Options may be exercised in accordance with procedures established by the Committee,
but not earlier than the Initial Exercise Date. The Committee may from time to time prescribe
periods during which the Options shall not be exercisable.

(b)  Death . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, if you die
and any Options remain unexercised, and provided your rights in respect of such Options have not
previously terminated, such Options shall be exercisable by the representative of your estate or,
to the extent you specifically bequeath any such Options under your will in accordance with such
procedures, if any, as may be adopted by the Committee to an organization described in Sections
501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other similar charitable organization as may be approved
by the Committee) (a  Charitable Beneficiary ), by the Charitable Beneficiary, in either case in
accordance with the procedures described in Paragraph 5(a) as soon as practicable after the date of
death and after such documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to the
Committee and shall, unless earlier terminated or cancelled in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement, remain exercisable until the Expiration Date and shall thereafter terminate. The
Transfer Restrictions described in Paragraph 5(d) shall be removed.

(c)  Other Terminations . Upon your separation from the Board of Directors of GS Inc.
for any reason, your Outstanding and unexercised Options shall remain exercisable until the
Expiration Date, and shall thereafter terminate.

(d)  Certain Restrictions on Transfer of Shares and Exercise of Options . Until the
earlier of (I) the date on which you cease to be a director of the GS Inc. Board, or (II)    
(the  Transferability Date ): (i) (A) no sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge,
hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other disposition of (including through the use of any
cash-settled instrument) any Shares acquired in connection with the exercise of your Options,
whether voluntarily or involuntarily by you; and (B) no exercise of any Options involving the sale
of Shares acquired in respect of such exercise (the restrictions in clauses (i)(A) and (i)(B) of
this Paragraph 5(d) being referred to collectively as the  Transfer Restrictions ) may be
effected, and any purported sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation,
fractionalization, hedge, other disposition or exercise in violation of the Transfer Restrictions
shall be void; and (ii) if and to the extent Shares subject to your Options are certificated, the
certificates representing such Shares shall bear a legend specifying that such Shares are subject
to the restrictions described in this Paragraph 5(d) and GS Inc. may advise its transfer agent to
place a stop order against the transfer of such Shares in violation of such Transfer Restrictions.
Any Shares acquired in connection with any exercise of your Options prior to the Transferability
Date shall be held in a custody or other account designated by the Firm. Within 30 Business Days
after the Transferability Date (or any other date for which removal of the Transfer Restrictions is
called for), GS Inc. shall take, or shall cause to be taken, such steps as may be necessary to
remove the Transfer Restrictions.

6.  Delivery . Without limiting the application of Paragraph 5(d), unless otherwise
determined by the Committee, or as otherwise provided in this Award Agreement, and except as
provided in Paragraph 8, upon receipt of payment of the Exercise Price for Shares subject to one or
more Options, delivery of the appropriate number of Shares shall be effected by book-entry credit
to the Custody Account or to a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm. No delivery
of Shares shall be made unless you have timely established the Custody Account or a brokerage
account, as approved or required by the Firm. You shall be the beneficial owner of any Shares
properly credited to the Custody Account or delivered to a brokerage account, as approved or
required by the Firm. You shall have no right to any dividend or distribution with respect to such
Shares if the record date for such dividend or distribution is prior to the date the Custody
Account or brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm, is properly credited with such
Shares. The Firm may deliver cash or other property in lieu of all or any portion of the Shares
otherwise deliverable in accordance with this Paragraph 6.

7.  Conflicted Employment . Without otherwise limiting the application of Paragraph
5(d), if you accept employment at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S.
government, any supranational or international organization, any self-regulatory organization or
any agency, or instrumentality of any such government or organization, or any other employer
determined by the Committee, and as a result of such employment, your continued holding of your
Options would result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted Employment ) then
the Transfer Restrictions set forth in Paragraph 5(d) shall cease to apply and, at the sole
discretion of the Firm: (a) such Outstanding Options shall be cancelled and as soon as practicable
after the Committee has received satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment
(the  Release Date ) you shall receive a payment equal to the excess (if any) of (x) the Fair
Market Value of a Share on the Business Day immediately prior to the Release Date multiplied by the
number of your Options that were Outstanding immediately prior to such cancellation over (y) the
Exercise Price multiplied by the number of such Options;

(b) the Initial Exercise Date with respect to your Outstanding Options shall become the
Release Date; or (c) if and to the extent provided in any procedures adopted by the Committee, you
may be permitted to transfer your Outstanding Options for value to a party or parties acceptable to
the Firm (which may include the Firm). Notwithstanding anything else herein, the actions described
in this Paragraph 7 shall be permitted only at such time and if and to the extent as would not
result in the imposition of any additional tax to you under Section 409A of the Code (which governs
taxation of certain deferred compensation).

8.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, and without limiting any permitted transfer in
accordance with Paragraph 7, the limitations set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan shall apply with
respect to the Options. Any purported transfer or assignment in violation of the provisions of
this Paragraph 8 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may adopt procedures
pursuant to which you may transfer some or all of your Options through a gift for no consideration
to any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece,
nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law,
including adoptive relationships, any person sharing the recipient s household (other than a tenant
or employee), a trust in which these persons have more than 50% of the beneficial interest, and any
other entity in which these persons (or the recipient) own more than 50% of the voting interests.

9.  Withholding, Consents and Legends .

(a) The delivery of Shares upon exercise of your Outstanding Options is conditioned on your
satisfaction of any applicable withholding taxes (in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan,
provided that the Committee may determine not to apply the minimum withholding rate specified in
Section 3.2.2 of the Plan).

(b) Your rights in respect of the Options are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable, and by accepting this Award you
shall be deemed to consent and agree to the items specified in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan.

(c) In addition to the restrictions listed in Paragraph 5(d), GS Inc. may affix to
Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award Agreement any legend that the
Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to reflect any restrictions to which
you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS Inc. may advise the transfer agent
to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

10.  Successors and Assigns of GS Inc . The terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of GS Inc. and its successors and
assigns.

11.  Committee Discretion . The Committee shall have full discretion with respect to
any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Award

Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive in accordance with
Section 1.3 of the Plan.

12.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement in any respect in accordance with Section 1.3 of the
Plan, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect in accordance with Section 3.1 of the Plan.

13.  Governing Law .  THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS. 

14.  Section 409A of the Code . This Award is intended to be exempt from the provisions
of Section 409A of the Code ( Section 409A ). Notwithstanding anything else herein or in the Plan,
no action described herein, including without limitation Paragraphs 6 and 7, or in the Plan shall
be permitted if the Firm determines such action would result in the imposition of additional tax
under Section 409A.

15.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of    .

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

Accepted and Agreed: 

By:

</EX-10.41>

<EX-10.42>
 12
 y74032exv10w42.htm
 EX-10.42: FORM OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR RSU AWARD AGREEMENT

EX-10.42 

Exhibit 10.42

THE GOLDMAN SACHS 
AMENDED AND RESTATED STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
OUTSIDE DIRECTOR __________ 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of an Award of RSUs granted to you
under The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) as of    .

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement which are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan.   In light of
the U.S. tax rules relating to deferred compensation in Section 409A of the Code, to the extent
that you are a United States taxpayer, certain provisions of this Award Agreement and of the Plan
shall apply only as provided in Paragraph 11   . 

2.  Award .    RSUs are subject to this Award. Each RSU constitutes an unfunded
and unsecured promise of GS Inc. to deliver (or cause to be delivered) to you, subject to the terms
and conditions of this Award Agreement, a share of Common Stock (a  Share ) (or cash or other
property equal to the Fair Market Value thereof) on the Delivery Date as provided herein. Until
such delivery, you have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor and no rights as a
shareholder of GS Inc.  This Award is subject to all terms and provisions of the Plan and this
Award Agreement .

3.  Delivery .

(a)  In General . Except as provided below in this Paragraph 3 and subject to
Paragraphs 6, 7 and 11, the Delivery Date shall be on the last Business Day in May in the year
following the year in which you cease to be a director of the GS Inc. Board. The Firm may deliver
cash or other property in lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable on the
Delivery Date. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, or as otherwise provided in this
Award Agreement, delivery of Shares shall be effected by book-entry credit to the Custody Account
or to a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm. No delivery of Shares shall be
made unless you have timely established the Custody Account or a brokerage account, as approved or
required by the Firm. You shall be the beneficial owner of any Shares properly credited to the
Custody Account or delivered to a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm. You
shall have no right to any dividend or distribution with respect to such Shares if the record date
for such dividend or distribution is prior to the date the Custody Account or brokerage account, as
approved or required by the Firm, is properly credited with such Shares.

(b)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement (except
Paragraph 11), if you die prior to the Delivery Date, the Shares (or cash or other property in lieu
of all or any portion thereof) corresponding to your Outstanding RSUs shall be delivered to the
representative of your estate as soon as practicable after the date of death and after such
documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to the Committee. The Committee may
adopt procedures pursuant to which you may be permitted to specifically

bequeath some or all of your Outstanding RSUs under your will to an organization described in
Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other similar charitable organization as may be
approved by the Committee).

4.  Dividend Equivalent Rights . Prior to the delivery of Shares (or cash or other
property in lieu thereof) pursuant to this Award Agreement, at or after the time of distribution of
any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of the Common Stock, you shall be entitled to
receive an amount in cash or other property equal to such regular cash dividend payment as would
have been made in respect of the Shares not yet delivered, as if the Shares had been actually
delivered.

5.  Non-transferability . Except as may otherwise be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan
shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in violation of the provisions of
this Paragraph 5 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may adopt procedures
pursuant to which you may transfer some or all of your RSUs through a gift for no consideration to
any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece, nephew,
mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law,
including adoptive relationships, any person sharing the recipient s household (other than a tenant
or employee), a trust in which these persons have more than 50% of the beneficial interest, and any
other entity in which these persons (or the recipient) own more than 50% of the voting interests.

6.  Conflicted Employment . Notwithstanding anything in this Award Agreement to the
contrary, if you accept employment at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S.
government, any supranational or international organization, any self-regulatory organization or
any agency, or instrumentality of any such government or organization, or any other employer
determined by the Committee, and as a result of such employment, your continued holding of your
Outstanding RSUs would result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted
Employment ), then you shall receive, at the sole discretion of the Firm, either a lump sum cash
payment in respect of, or delivery of Shares underlying, your then Outstanding RSUs, in each case
as soon as practicable after the Committee has received satisfactory documentation relating to your
Conflicted Employment.

7.  Withholding, Consents and Legends .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan, provided that the Committee may determine not to
apply the minimum withholding rate specified in Section 3.2.2 of the Plan.

(b) Your rights in respect of the RSUs are conditioned on the receipt to the full satisfaction
of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan) that the
Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable, and, by accepting this Award, you agree to
the matters described in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan.

-2- 

(c) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable. GS Inc. may
advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

8.  Successors and Assigns of GS Inc.  The terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of GS Inc. and its successors and
assigns.

9.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement in any respect in accordance with Section 1.3 of the
Plan, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect in accordance with Section 3.1 of the Plan.
Notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(h) and 3.1 of the Plan, no such
amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award Agreement
without your consent (or the consent of your estate, if such consent is obtained after your death),
except that the Committee reserves the right to accelerate the delivery of the Shares and in its
discretion provide that such Shares may not be transferable until the Delivery Date. Any amendment
of this Award Agreement shall be in writing signed by an authorized member of the Board or any
other person or persons authorized by the Board.

10.  Governing Law .  THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS. 

11.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 409A.  The provisions of this
Paragraph 11 apply to you only if you are a United States taxpayer.

(a) References in this Award Agreement to  Section 409A  refer to Section 409A of the Code,
including any amendments or successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other
administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or
interpreted through further administrative guidance. This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions
that apply to this Award are intended and shall be construed to comply with Section 409A (including
the requirements applicable to, or the conditions for exemption from treatment as, a  deferral of
compensation  or  deferred compensation  as those terms are defined in the regulations under
Section 409A ( 409A deferred compensation ), whether by reason of short-term deferral treatment or
other exceptions or provisions). The Committee shall have full authority to give effect to this
intent. To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including, without limitation, Sections
1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement shall
govern, and in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 11 and
the other provisions of this Award Agreement, this Paragraph 11 shall govern.

(b) Delivery of Shares shall not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable conditions
or restrictions on delivery of Shares in respect of your RSUs required by this Agreement
(including, without limitation, those specified in Paragraphs 7(a) and (b), and the consents and
other items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are satisfied, and shall occur by December 31 of
the calendar year in which the Delivery Date occurs unless, in order to permit

-3- 

such conditions or restrictions to be satisfied, the Committee elects, pursuant to Treasury
Regulations section ( Reg. ) 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted in accordance
with Section 409A, to delay delivery of Shares to a later date as may be permitted under Section
409A, including, without limitation, Regs. 1.409A-2(b)(7) (in conjunction with Section 3.21.3 of
the Plan pertaining to Code Section 162(m)) and 1.409A-3(d).

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3(a) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to the
extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property that
the Firm may deliver in respect of your RSUs shall not have the effect of deferring delivery or
payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the date on which such
delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would lapse, with respect to
the Shares that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a later date for
this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted under Section
409A, including, without limitation and to the extent applicable, the subsequent election
provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).

(d) Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 3(b), the delivery of Shares referred
to therein shall be made after the date of death and during the calendar year that includes the
date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A).

(e) Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 4 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the contrary,
the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding RSUs shall be paid to you
within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any corresponding regular cash
dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for which occurs on or after the
Date of Grant. The payment shall be in an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such
regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the Shares underlying such
Outstanding RSUs.

(f) The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 6 shall be the earlier of (i)
the Delivery Date or (ii) within the calendar year in which the Committee receives satisfactory
documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such delivery or payment shall
be made only at such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as reasonably determined by the
Firm, would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you under Section 409A.

(g) Section 3.4 of the Plan shall not apply to Awards that are 409A deferred compensation.

(h) Delivery of Shares in respect of this Award may be made, if and to the extent elected by
the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, in
the case of any Award that constitutes 409A deferred compensation, only to the extent that the
later delivery is permitted under Section 409A).

12.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

-4- 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. and you have caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and
delivered.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

Accepted and Agreed: 

By:

-5- 

</EX-10.42>

<EX-10.43>
 13
 y74032exv10w43.htm
 EX-10.43: DESCRIPTION OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR COMPENSATION

EX-10.43 

Exhibit 10.43

Description of Non-Employee Director Compensation  

For fiscal 2008, the compensation for the non-employee directors of The Goldman Sachs Group,
Inc. (Group Inc.) consisted of:

2,900 fully vested RSUs for each of Claes Dahlb ck, Mr. Friedman, William
W. George, Lois D. Juliber and Ruth J. Simmons; 

1,450 fully vested RSUs and 5,800 fully vested stock options (Options)
for John H. Bryan and James A. Johnson; 

11,600 fully vested Options for Rajat K. Gupta; 

a prorated grant of 1,450 fully vested RSUs for Mr. Mittal; and 

$190,385 in cash in lieu of a prorated annual equity grant for Mr. Liddy, a retired director. 

Non-employee directors (other than Mr. Mittal, who joined during the year) elected whether to
receive RSUs, Options or a combination of RSUs and Options.

RSUs awarded in connection with non-employee director compensation provide for delivery of the
underlying shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share (Common Stock), of Group Inc. on the
last business day in May in the year following the year of the non-employee director s retirement
from the Group Inc. Board of Directors. Options awarded in connection with non-employee director
compensation for fiscal 2008 have an exercise price of $78.78 (the closing price per share of
Common Stock on the NYSE on the date of grant). One-third of the Options awarded generally become
exercisable in each of January 2010, January 2011 and January 2012, provided that all of the
Options granted to a non-employee director become exercisable on the date the non-employee director
ceases to be a director of Group Inc. For so long as the non-employee director remains a director
of Group Inc., the Common Stock underlying any exercised Option cannot be transferred before
January 2014.

The Group Inc. Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Corporate Governance and
Nominating Committee, has a policy on stock ownership that requires each non-employee director to
beneficially own at least 5,000 shares of Common Stock or fully vested RSUs within two years of
becoming a director. All non-employee directors of Group Inc. are in compliance with this policy.

Non-employee directors of Group Inc. are permitted to participate in Group Inc. s employee
matching gift program on the same terms as employees. Under the program for 2008, Group Inc.
matched gifts of up to $20,000 in the aggregate per participating individual.

Non-employee directors receive no compensation other than directors  fees.

</EX-10.43>

<EX-10.49>
 14
 y74032exv10w49.htm
 EX-10.49: FORM OF SIGNATURE CARD FOR EQUITY AWARDS

EX-10.49 

Exhibit 10.49 

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.  
 Signature Card For ____ Year-End Awards and the BNY Mellon Custody Account   
 and Consent to Receive Electronic Delivery  

IMPORTANT: PLEASE REVIEW, EXECUTE AND RETURN THIS FORM TO: EQUITY COMPENSATION 
(DIVISION OF HCM), 30 HUDSON STREET, 35TH FLOOR, JERSEY CITY, NJ
07302.  
YOU MUST PROPERLY EXECUTE THIS FORM TO ACKNOWLEDGE ACCEPTANCE OF THE
TERMS AND  CONDITIONS OF YOUR AWARD(S) AND RELATED MATTERS. 

1. I have received and agree to be bound by The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock
Incentive Plan (the  SIP ) and the Award Agreement(s) applicable to me in connection with the    
Year-End Award(s) (the  Award(s) ) that I have been granted by the Firm (as defined below). I
confirm that I have accepted the Award(s) subject to the terms and conditions contained in the SIP
and the Award  Agreement(s), including but not limited to, the requirement that disputes relating to
the Award(s) and the Award Agreement(s) be decided through arbitration in New York City and be
governed by New York law.

As a condition of this grant, I understand that the Award(s) (as well as any other award that the
Firm may grant to me under the SIP) is/are subject to other governing law provisions (as outlined
in this signature card, in the current or otherwise then current Award Summary (as defined below)
or otherwise as may be required under applicable law) and, as a condition to receiving such awards,
I agree to be bound thereby. I also understand that the Firm may grant to me other awards under the
SIP that also may contain (among other terms and conditions) arbitration and other governing law
provisions and, as a condition to receiving such awards, I agree to be bound thereby. As a
condition of this grant, I agree to provide upon request an appropriate certification regarding my
U.S. tax status on Form W-8BEN, Form W-9, or other appropriate form, and I understand that failure
to supply a required form may result in the imposition of backup withholding on certain payments I
receive pursuant to this grant.

Further, as a condition of this grant, if I am a person who has worked in the  United
Kingdom  at any time during the earnings period relating to any award under the SIP, as
determined by the Firm, when requested and as directed by the Firm, I will agree to a Joint
Election under s431 ITEPA 2003 of the laws of the United Kingdom for full or partial disapplication
of Chapter 2 Income Tax (Earnings and Pension) Act 2003 under the laws of the United Kingdom and
will sign and return such election in respect of all future deliveries of shares underlying the
Award(s) and any previous grants made to me under the SIP and understand that the Firm intends to
meet its delivery obligations in shares with respect to my Award(s), except as may be prohibited by
law or described in the accompanying Award Agreement or supplementary materials.

If I have worked in  Switzerland  at any time during the earnings period relating to the
Award(s) granted to me as determined by the Firm, (i) I acknowledge that my Award(s) are subject to
tax in accordance with the rulings and method of calculation of taxable values to be agreed by the
Firm with the Federal and/or Zurich/Geneva cantonal/communal tax authorities or as otherwise
directed by the Firm, and (ii) I hereby agree to be bound by any rulings agreed by the Firm in
respect of any Award(s), which is expected to result in taxation at the time of delivery of shares
(or cash or other property in lieu thereof), and (iii) I undertake to declare and make a full and
accurate income tax declaration in respect of my Award(s) in accordance with the above ruling or as
directed by the Firm.

I understand and acknowledge that any transfer provisions (including, where applicable, escrow and
other similar provisions, but specifically excluding any transfer restrictions imposed on any
Award(s) in the Award Agreement(s) or the SIP) in the SIP or related documents will not apply to me
(i) to the extent that the applicability of those provisions would affect the availability of
relevant exemptions or tax favorable treatment, or (ii) otherwise in circumstances determined by
the Firm in its sole discretion.

2. I have read and understand the Firm s  Notice Periods for Recipients of Year-End Equity-Based
Awards  (the  Notice Policy ), pursuant to which I am required to provide certain specified advance
notice of my intent to leave employment with the Firm. I understand that in executing this form, I
will be agreeing to provide my employing entity with advance notice of my intention to leave
employment with the Firm as follows:

In the Americas, Japan and Asia Ex-Japan (excluding India): 60 days in advance of my
termination date 

In Europe, the Middle East, Africa and India: 90 days in advance of my termination date 

and that, where applicable (see the provisions in the Award Summary), the provisions of the Notice
Policy constitute a permanent change to my terms and conditions of employment. I agree to this
change in consideration of my continued employment with the Firm and my acceptance of the Award(s),
and I agree to be bound by the Notice Policy as in effect from time-to-time.

I also understand that the terms and conditions of my employment shall be permanently changed so
that, in the event that I resign from the Firm, the Firm may either:

Unilaterally waive or reduce the notice period otherwise applicable to my employment, or 

Take such other action as shall have that effect. 

I acknowledge that the Firm retains its right to bring forward the end of the notice period to such
earlier date, and that I will not be entitled to any salary, wages, or benefits after such earlier
date. In addition, I understand that I will not receive pay in lieu for any period of notice that
has been waived or reduced.

This agreement concerning my notice period is being made for and on behalf of my Goldman Sachs
employing entity, and implementation of the Notice Policy does not create an employment
relationship between me and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.

I understand that unless the notice period is waived by agreement or unilaterally as set out above,
or I have exercised a statutory right to make a payment in lieu of my notice period, I will be paid
my base salary and will continue to receive all mandatory benefits during the notice period. I
understand that during my notice period I may (subject to any local laws to the contrary) be
required to remain away from the Firm s offices, and/or be removed from any assigned duties or
assigned to other suitable duties during my notice period.

I understand that if I fail to give the full amount of notice as set out above, or to comply in any
respect with the Notice Policy, I will have failed to meet an obligation I have under an agreement
with the Firm, as a result of which the Firm may have certain rights and I may be subject to
certain legal and equitable rights and remedies, including, without limitation, the forfeiture of
the Award(s) and any other awards granted to me (whether before or after the Award(s)) under the
SIP. The forfeiture of such Award(s) will also apply where I fail to give the full amount of notice
by exercising any right I may have under applicable legislation to make a payment in lieu of such
notice. I also understand that, if I fail to comply with the Notice Policy, the Firm may be
entitled to an injunction from a court restraining me from violating it.

I understand that, for employees of Archon Group, L.P., the Notice Policy applies only to Senior
Executives.

3. I have read and understand the Firm s hedging and pledging policies (including, without
limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS Shares, Equity Awards
and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and agree to be bound by them (with respect to
the Award(s) and any prior awards under the SIP), both during and following my employment with the
Firm.

4. If a custody account is required, I request that The Bank of New
York Mellon ( BNY Mellon ) (successor in interest to Mellon Bank, N.A.)  open a custody account for
me as described in the enclosed Custody Agreement among BNY Mellon (as successor in interest to
Mellon Bank N.A.), The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., and myself. I have received and agree to be bound
by the Custody Agreement (or any other such custody agreement previously entered into by me or on
my behalf), including the applicable restrictions on transfers, pledges and withdrawals of Common
Stock, the provisions permitting the Firm to monitor my custody account, and the limitations on the
liability of BNY Mellon and the Firm. I also agree to open an account with any other custodian or
broker selected by the Firm, if the Firm, in its sole discretion, requires me to open an account
with such custodian or broker as a condition to delivery of shares (or cash or other property)
underlying the Award(s).

5. If the Firm advanced or loaned me funds to pay certain taxes (including income taxes and Social
Security, or similar contributions) in connection with the Award(s) (or does so in the future), and
if I have not signed a separate loan agreement governing repayment, I authorize the Firm to
withhold from my compensation any amounts required to reimburse it for any such advance or loan to
the extent permitted by applicable law.

I understand and agree that, if I leave the Firm, I am required immediately to repay any
outstanding amount. I further understand and agree that the Firm has the right to offset, to the
extent permitted by the Award Agreement and applicable law (including Section 409A of the U.S.
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which limits the
Firm s ability to offset in the case of United States taxpayers under certain circumstances), any
outstanding amounts that I then owe the Firm against its delivery obligations under the Award(s) or
against any other amounts the Firm then owes me. I understand that the delivery of shares pursuant
to the Award(s) is conditioned on my satisfaction of any applicable taxes or social security
contributions (collectively referred to as  tax  or  taxes  for purposes of the SIP and all related
documents) in accordance with the SIP. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Firm, in its
sole discretion, may require me to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any Federal, State,
local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on me or the Firm in connection with the grant,
vesting or delivery of the Award(s) by requiring me to choose

Year End
(General)

between remitting such amount (i) in
cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm s
executing a sale of shares delivered to me pursuant to the Award(s). However, in no event shall any
such choice or the choice specified in paragraph 6, below, determine, or give me any discretion to
affect, the timing of the delivery of shares or payment of tax obligations. I understand and agree
that the Firm may reduce any year-end cash bonus that I may receive by an amount equal to the
estimated Indian Fringe Benefit Tax applicable to any award (whether or not vested), as determined
by the Firm in its sole discretion.

6. If I am an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the
Firm s    fiscal year), I acknowledge and agree that the Firm may, in its sole discretion,
require (to the extent permitted by applicable law) that I provide for a reserve in an amount the
Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or potential
tax consequences related to my separate employment contracts by requiring me to choose between
remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deductions or otherwise) or (ii) in the form
of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of shares delivered to me pursuant to the Award(s) (or
any other of my awards outstanding under the SIP).

7. In connection with any Award Agreement or other interest I may receive in the SIP or any shares
of Common Stock of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. that I may receive in connection with the Award(s)
or any award I have previously received or may receive, or in connection with any amendment or
variation thereof or any documents listed in paragraph 8, I hereby consent to (a) the acceptance by
me of the Award(s) electronically, (b) the giving of instructions in electronic form whether by me
or the Firm, and (c) the receipt in electronic form at my email address maintained at Goldman Sachs
or via Goldman Sachs  intranet site (or, if I am no longer employed by the Firm, at such other
email address as I may specify, or via such other electronic means as the Firm and I may agree) all
notices and information that the Firm is required by law to send to me in connection therewith
including, without limitation, any document (or part thereof) constituting part of a prospectus
covering securities that have been registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, the
information contained in any such document and any information required to be delivered to me under
Rule 428 of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, including, for example, the annual report to security
holders or the annual report on Form 10-K of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. for its latest fiscal
year, and that all prior elections that I may have made relating to the delivery of any such
document in physical form are hereby revoked and superseded. I agree to check Goldman Sachs 
intranet site (or, if I am no longer employed by the Firm, such other electronic site as the Firm
and I may agree) periodically as I deem appropriate for any new notices or information concerning
the SIP. I understand that I am not required to consent to the receipt of such documents in
electronic form in order to receive the Award(s) and that I may decline to receive such documents
in electronic form by contacting Equity Compensation (division of HCM), 30 Hudson Street, 35th
Floor, Jersey City, NJ 07302, telephone (212) 357-1444, which will provide me with hard copies of
such documents upon request. I also understand that this consent is voluntary and may be revoked at
any time on three business days  written notice.

8. I hereby acknowledge that I have received in electronic form in accordance with my consent in
paragraph 7 the following documents:

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan; 

Summary of The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan; 

Custody Agreement with BNY Mellon; 

The    Annual Report for The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.; 

The annual report on Form 10-K for The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. for the fiscal year
ended    , filed with the Securities Exchange Commission on     

The Award Agreement(s); and 

Summaries of the Award(s) ( Award Summary ). 

9. I expressly authorize any appropriate representative of the Firm to make any notifications,
filings or remittances of funds that may be required in connection with the SIP or otherwise on my
behalf. Further, if I am an employee who is resident in South Africa at the time of share
acquisition, by accepting my Award(s), I expressly authorize any appropriate representative of the
Firm to make any required notification on my behalf to the Reserve Bank of South Africa (or its
authorized dealer) in relation to any acquisition of shares for no consideration under the SIP or
other similar filing that may otherwise be required in South Africa. I acknowledge that any such
authorization is effective from the date of acceptance of my Award(s) until such time as I
expressly revoke the authorization by written notice to any appropriate representative of the Firm.
I understand that this authorization does not create any obligation on the Firm to deal with any
such notifications, filings or remittances of funds that I may be required to make in connection
with the SIP and I accept full responsibility in this regard.

Consent to Data Collection, Processing and Transfers: 

I understand and agree that in connection with the SIP and any other Firm benefit plan (the
 Programs ), to the extent permitted under the laws of the applicable jurisdiction, the Firm may
collect and process various data that is personal to me, including my name, address, work location,
hire date, Social Security or Social Insurance or taxpayer identification number (required for tax
purposes), type and amount of SIP or other benefit plan award, citizenship or residency (required
for tax purposes) and other similar information reasonably necessary for the administration of such
Programs (collectively referred to as  Information ) and provide such Information to its affiliates
and BNY Mellon (and its affiliates) or any other service provider, whether in the United States or
elsewhere, as is reasonably necessary for the administration of the Programs and under the laws of
these jurisdictions. I understand that, in certain circumstances, foreign courts, law enforcement
agencies or regulatory agencies may be entitled to access the Information. I understand that,
unless I explicitly authorize otherwise, the Firm, its affiliates and its service providers
(through their respective employees in charge of the relevant electronic and manual processing)
will use this Information only for purposes of administering the Programs. I understand that, in
the United States and in other countries to which such Information may be transferred for the
administration of the Programs, the level of data protection is not equivalent to data protection
standards in the member states of the European Union. I understand that, upon request, to Equity
Compensation (division of HCM), 30 Hudson Street, 35th Floor, Jersey City, NJ 07302, telephone
(212) 357-1444, to the extent required under the laws of the applicable jurisdiction, I may have
access to and obtain communication of the Information and may exercise any of my rights in respect
of such Information, including objecting to the processing of the Information and requesting that
the Information be corrected (if wrong), completed or clarified (if incomplete or equivocal), or
erased (if cannot legally be collected or kept). Upon request, to the extent required under the
laws of the applicable jurisdiction, Equity Compensation (division of HCM) will also provide me,
free of charge, with a list of all the service providers used in connection with the Programs at
the time of request. I understand that, if I refuse to authorize the use and transfer of the
Information consistent with the above, I may not benefit from the Programs. I authorize the use and
transfer of the Information consistent with the above for the period of administration of the
Programs. In particular, I authorize (within the limits described above): (i) the data processing
by the Firm (which means The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates); (ii)
the data processing by BNY Mellon and its affiliates; (iii) the data processing by the Firm s other
service providers; and (iv) the data transfer to the United States and other countries. I further
acknowledge that the Information may be retained by such persons beyond the period of
administration of the Programs to the extent permitted under the laws of the applicable
jurisdiction and I so authorize. 

Other Legal Notices: 

FOR ARGENTINA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

This is a private offer. It is not subject to the supervision of the Comision Nacional de Valores
(CNV) or any other governmental authority in Argentina.

FOR AUSTRALIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

This document is provided for your information only. This document does not constitute an offer of
securities. Your individual offer of participation will be given to you directly with a printed
copy of the disclosure document. 

FOR BRAZIL EMPLOYEES ONLY 

Please note that the offer of an award under the SIP does not constitute a public offer in Brazil,
and therefore it is not subject to registration with the Brazilian authorities.

According to Brazilian regulations, individuals resident in Brazil must inform the Central Bank of
Brazil yearly the amounts of any nature, the assets and rights (including cash and other deposits)
held outside of the Brazilian territory. Please consult your own legal counsel on the terms and
conditions for presentation of such information.

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge that the Firm has provided you with Portuguese
translations of the Award Summary, Award Agreement and Signature Card, but that the original
English version of these documents controls. (Ao aceitar esta outorga, Voc  reconhece que a Empresa
Ihe disponibilizou a vers o em portugu s do Award Summary, do Award Agreement e do Signature Card;
por m a vers o original em ingl s desses documentos prevalecer .)

FOR CANADA EMPLOYEES IN QUEBEC ONLY 

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge and agree that you and the Firm expressly wish that all
documents related to the Award(s) (including, without limitation, the Plan document, this Signature
Card, the Award Agreement and the Award Summary) be in English.

FOR THE PEOPLE S REPUBLIC OF CHINA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

All documentation in relation to the Award(s) is intended for your personal use and in your
capacity as an employee of the Firm (and/or its affiliate) and is being given to you solely for the
purpose of providing you with information concerning

Year End
(General)

-2- 

the Award(s) which the Firm may grant to you
as an employee of the Firm (and/or its affiliate) in accordance with the terms of the SIP, this
documentation and the applicable Award Agreement(s). The grant of the Award(s) has not been and
will not be registered with the China Securities Regulatory Commission of the People s Republic of
China pursuant to relevant securities laws and regulations, and the Award(s) may not be offered or
sold within the mainland of the People s Republic of China by means of any of the documentation in
relation to the Award(s) through a public offering or in circumstances which require a registration
or approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission of the People s Republic of China in
accordance with the relevant securities laws and regulations.

FOR FRANCE EMPLOYEES ONLY 

Disclaimer: The current award is not covered by any prospectus which is the subject of the AMF s
approval. Grantees can only receive this award for their own account ( compte propre ) in the
conditions laid down by articles D. 411-1, D. 411-2, D.411-3, D.411-4, D. 734-1, D. 744-1, D. 754-1
and D. 764-1 of the French Monetary and Financial Code. Any direct or indirect dissemination into
the public of the financial instruments acquired can only take place within the conditions of
articles L. 411-1, L. 411-2, L. 412-1 and L. 621-8 to L. 621-8-3 of the French Monetary and
Financial Code.

By accepting this award, you acknowledge that the Firm has provided you with French translations of
the Award Summary, Award Agreement and Signature Card, but that the original English version of
these documents control.

Avertissement: La pr sente attribution ne donne pas lieu   un prospectus soumis au visa de
l Autorit  des marches financiers. Les personnes qui y participent ne peuvent le faire que pour
compte propre dans les conditions fix es par les articles D.
411-1, D. 411-2, D.411-3, D.411-4, D.734-1, D. 744-1, D. 754-1 et D. 764-1 du Code monetaire et financier. La diffusion, directe ou
indirecte, dans le public des instruments financiers ainsi acquis, ne peut  tre r alis e que dans
les conditions pr vues aux articles L. 411-1, L. 411-2 L. 412-1 et L. 621-8   L. 621-8-3 du Code
mon taire et financier.

En acceptant cet octroi, vous reconnaissez que la Soci t  vous   transmis une version fran ais de
l  Award Summary  (R sum  de l Octroi), l  Award Agreement  (Contrat d Octroi) et de la  Signature Card 
(Carte de Signature), mais que seule la version originale en langue anglaise fait foi. 

FOR GERMANY EMPLOYEES ONLY 

The
Award(s) are offered to you by The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. ( GS Inc. ) in accordance with the
terms of the SIP which are summarized in the Award Summary. More information about GS Inc. is
available on  www.gs.com . You are being offered Award(s) under the SIP in order to provide an
additional incentive and to encourage employee share ownership and so increase your interest in the
Firm s success. Please refer to the section entitled  Shares Available for Awards  in the SIP for
information on the maximum number of GS Inc. shares that can be offered under the SIP. The
obligation to publish a prospectus under the Prospectus Directive does not apply to the offer
because of Article 4(1)(e) of that directive.

Die
Pr mien werden lhnen von der The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (,,GS Inc. ) gem   den in der
Pr mien bersicht aufgef hrten Bestimmungen des Erwerbsplans angeboten. Weitere Informationen  ber
GS Inc. finden Sie unter  www.gs.com . Die Pr mien werden lhnen im Rahmen des Erwerbsplans angeboten,
um einen zus tzlichen Anreiz darzustellen und Sie als Mitarbeiter zum Erwerb von Aktien zu
ermutigen, um so Ihren Anteil am Erfolg des Unternehmens zu vergr  ern. Informationen zur Anzahl
der im Rahmen des Plans angebotenen GS Inc.-Aktien entnehmen Sie bitte dem Abschnitt  als Pr mien
erh ltliche Aktien  im Erwerbsplan. Die Verpflichtung zur Ver ffentlichung eines Emissionsprospekts
gem   der europ ischen Prospektrichtlinie trifft auf Grund von Artikel 4(1)(e) dieser Richtlinie
nicht auf dieses Angebot zu. 

FOR HONG KONG EMPLOYEES ONLY 

WARNING:

The contents of this document have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. You
are advised to exercise caution in relation to the offer. If you are in doubt about any of the
contents of this document, you should obtain independent professional advice.

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge and accept that you will not be permitted to transfer
awards to persons who fall outside the definition of  qualifying persons  in the Companies
Ordinance ( i.e ., a person who is not a current or former director, employee, officer, consultant of
the Firm or a person other than the offeree s wife, husband, widow, widower, child or step-child
under the age of 18 years, or as otherwise defined), even if otherwise permitted under the SIP or
any of the related documents.

FOR INDIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

This website does not invite offers from the public for subscription or purchase of the securities
of any body corporate under any law for the time being in force in India. The website is not a
prospectus under the applicable laws for the time being in force in India. Goldman Sachs does not
intend to market, promote, invite offers for subscription or purchase of the securities of any body
corporate by this website. The information provided on this website is for the record only. Any
person who subscribes or purchases securities of any body corporate should consult his own
investment advisers before making any investments. Goldman Sachs shall not be liable or responsible
for any such investment decision made by any person.

FOR MONACO EMPLOYEES ONLY 

By accepting your Award(s), you expressly renounce the jurisdiction of Monaco (and, if applicable,
France and notably the application of articles 14 and 15 of the French Civil Code) in connection
with any dispute relating to your Award(s).

FOR RUSSIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

None of the information contained in the documents referred to in paragraph 8 of this signature
card or in this signature card constitutes an advertisement of the Award(s) in Russia and must not
be passed on to third parties or otherwise be made publicly available in Russia. The Award(s) have
not been and will not be registered in Russia and are not intended for  placement  or  public
circulation  in Russia.

FOR SWEDEN EMPLOYEES ONLY 

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge and accept that any transfer provisions (including,
where applicable, escrow and other similar provisions) in the SIP or any related documents do not
apply to you.

FOR UK EMPLOYEES ONLY 

This document is approved by Goldman Sachs International ( GSI ), Peterborough Court, 133 Fleet
Street, London EC4A 2BB, which is authorized and regulated by the Financial Services Authority. The
document relates to investments and investment services of The Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and other
institutions, including BNY Mellon, relating to custodial and delivery operations. In some or all
respects, the regulatory system applying to these entities, including any compensation arrangements
and rules made under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 for the protection of private
customers, will be different from that of the United Kingdom.

This document does not have regard to the specific investment objectives, financial situation and
particular needs of any specific person who may receive it. Recipients should seek their own
financial advice.

The Award(s) is/are subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the SIP and the Award
Agreement. The price of shares and the income from such shares (if any) can fluctuate and may be
affected by changes in the exchange rate for U.S. Dollars. Past performance will not necessarily be
repeated. Levels and bases of taxation may change from time to time. Investors should consult their
own tax advisers in order to understand tax consequences. The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. has (and
its associates, including GSI, may have) a material interest in the shares and the investments that
are the subject of this document.

Signature

Date: 

Print Name:

Employee ID #: 

Year End
(General)

-3- 

</EX-10.49>

<EX-10.58>
 15
 y74032exv10w58.htm
 EX-10.58: FORM OF LETTER AGREEMENT

EX-10.58 

Exhibit 10.58 

[Letterhead of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.]

October 28, 2008

Name of Senior Executive Officer , 
     c/o The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., 
          85 Broad Street, 
               New York, New York 10004.

Dear _____,

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (  GS Group  ) has entered into a letter agreement, dated October
26, 2008 (including the Securities Purchase Agreement   Standard Terms incorporated by reference
therein, the   Securities Purchase Agreement  ), with the United States Department of Treasury
(  Treasury  ) as part of GS Group s participation in the Treasury s TARP Capital Purchase Program
(the   CPP  ).

For GS Group to participate in the CPP and as a condition to the closing of the investment
contemplated by the Securities Purchase Agreement, GS Group is required to establish specified
standards for incentive compensation to its  senior executive officers  (as defined below), and to
make changes to certain of its compensation arrangements. To comply with these requirements, and
in consideration of the benefits that you will receive as a result of GS Group s participation in
the CPP, you agree as follows:

(1) 
       
      No Golden Parachute Payments . GS Group is prohibiting any golden parachute payment
(as defined below) to you during any  CPP Covered Period.  A   CPP Covered Period   is any
period during which (A) you are a senior executive officer and (B) Treasury holds an
equity or debt position acquired from GS Group in the CPP. 

(2) 
       
      Recovery of Bonus and Incentive Compensation.  Any bonus or incentive compensation
payments to you during a CPP Covered Period is subject to recovery or  clawback  by GS
Group if the payments were based on materially inaccurate financial statements or any
other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria. 

(3) 
       
      Compensation Program Amendments.  Each of GS Group s compensation, bonus, incentive
and other benefit plans, programs, arrangements and 

agreements (including, without limitation, the Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan
and each RSU, stock option and other agreement thereunder, the Partner Compensation Plan,
the Restricted Partner Compensation Plan and any document governing any employee special
investment) (collectively,   Benefit Plans  ) applicable to you hereby is amended if and to
the extent necessary to give effect to provisions (1) and (2) and as required under the
Securities Purchase Agreement. 

In addition, the CPP requires the Compensation Committee of GS Group s Board of Directors
to review annually with GS Group s senior risk officers the features of the Benefit Plans
to ensure that they do not encourage senior executive officers to take unnecessary and
excessive risks that threaten the value of GS Group. If and to the extent that, as a
result of any such review, the Compensation Committee determines any revision to any
Benefit Plan is appropriate, you hereby agree to any such revisions and you agree to
execute such additional documents as GS Group deems necessary or appropriate to effect
such revisions. 

(4) 
       
      Definitions and Interpretation . This letter shall be interpreted as follows: 

Senior executive officer  means GS Group s  senior executive officers  as
defined in subsection 111(b)(3) of EESA and the regulations governing the CPP. 

Golden parachute payment  has the same meaning in subsection 111(b)(2)(C) of
EESA. 

EESA  means the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 as implemented by
guidance or regulation that has been issued and is in effect as of the  Closing
Date  as defined in the Securities Purchase Agreement. 

GS Group  includes any entities treated as a single employer with GS Group under
31 C.F.R.   30.1(b) (as in effect on the Closing Date). (We note that you also are
delivering a waiver pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement, and, as between
GS Group and you, the term  employer  in that waiver will be deemed to mean GS Group
as used in this letter). 

The term  CPP Covered Period  shall be limited by, and interpreted in a manner
consistent with, 31 C.F.R.   30.11 (as in effect on the Closing Date). 

Provisions (1) and (2) of this letter are intended to, and will be interpreted,
administered and construed to, comply with Section 111 of EESA and the regulations
thereunder and the regulations governing the CPP (as in effect on the Closing
Date)and, to the maximum extent consistent with the preceding, to permit operation
of the Benefit Plans in accordance with their terms before giving effect to this
letter. 

This letter is subject to the provisions of  Annex A , which is part hereof.

*                     *                     *

Very truly yours, 

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.  

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

Intending to be legally bound, I agree 
with and accept the foregoing terms.

ANNEX A 

Section 1. Arbitration 

(a) Any dispute, controversy or claim between the The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc and its
subsidiaries and affiliates (the  Firm ) and the Senior Executive Officer Grantee, arising out of
or relating to or concerning this letter (this  Agreement ), shall be finally settled by
arbitration in New York City before, and in accordance with the rules then obtaining of, the New
York Stock Exchange, Inc. (the  NYSE ) or, if the NYSE declines to arbitrate the matter in New York
City (or if the matter otherwise is not arbitrable by it), the American Arbitration Association
(the  AAA ) in accordance with the commercial arbitration rules of the AAA. Prior to arbitration,
all claims maintained by the Senior Executive Officer must first be submitted to the Compensation
Committee (the  Committee ) in accordance with claims procedures determined by the Committee. This
Section 1 is subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) below.

(b) The Firm and the Senior Executive Officer irrevocably submit to the exclusive jurisdiction
of any state or federal court located in the city of New York over any suit, action or proceeding
arising out of or relating to or concerning this Agreement that is not otherwise arbitrated or
resolved according to paragraph (a) above. This includes any suit, action or proceeding to compel
arbitration or to enforce an arbitration award. The Senior Executive Officer acknowledges that the
forum designated by this paragraph (b) has a reasonable relation to this Agreement and to the
Senior Executive Officer s relationship with the Firm. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing
herein shall preclude the Firm from bringing any suit, action or proceeding in any other court for
the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Section 1 or otherwise.

(c) The agreement by the Senior Executive Officer and the Firm as to forum is independent of
the law that may be applied in the suit, action or proceeding and the Senior Executive Officer and
the Firm agree to such forum even if the forum may under applicable law choose to apply non-forum
law. The Senior Executive Officer hereby (i) waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable
law, any objection which the Senior Executive Officer may have to personal jurisdiction or to the
laying of venue of any such suit, action or proceeding in any court referred to in Section 1(b),
(ii) undertakes not to commence any action arising out of or relating to or concerning this
Agreement in any forum other than a forum described in this Section 1 and (iii) agrees that, to the
fullest extent permitted by applicable law, a final and non-appealable judgment in any such suit,
action or proceeding in any such court shall be conclusive and binding upon the Senior Executive
Officer and the Firm.

(d) The
Senior Executive Officer irrevocably appoints each General Counsel of
GS Group as his
or her agent for service of process in connection with any suit, action or proceeding arising out
of or relating to or concerning this Agreement which is not arbitrated pursuant to the provisions
of Section 1(a), who shall promptly advise the Senior Executive Officer of any such service of
process.

(e) The Senior Executive Officer agrees to keep confidential the existence of, and any
information concerning, a dispute, controversy or claim described in this Section 1, except that
the Senior Executive Officer may disclose information concerning such dispute, controversy or claim
to the arbitrator or court that is considering such dispute, controversy or claim or to his or her
legal counsel (provided that such counsel

agrees not to disclose any such information other than as necessary to the prosecution or
defense of the dispute, controversy or claim).

Section 2. Governing Law . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE
WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.

</EX-10.58>

<EX-10.59>
 16
 y74032exv10w59.htm
 EX-10.59: GENERAL GUARANTEE AGREEMENT - GS BANK EUROPE

EX-10.59 

Exhibit 10.59 

GENERAL GUARANTEE AGREEMENT 

This General Guarantee Agreement, dated November 24, 2008 (this  Guarantee ), is made by The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (the  Guarantor ), a corporation duly organized under the laws of the
State of Delaware, in favor of each person (each, a  Party ) to whom Goldman Sachs Bank (Europe)
PLC, a public company with limited liability incorporated in Ireland and a subsidiary of the
Guarantor (the  Company ), may owe any Obligations (as defined below) from time to time. In this
Guarantee, the  Company  shall also mean any banking subsidiary of the Guarantor, whether now
existing or hereafter formed, that succeeds to the business of Goldman Sachs Bank (Europe) PLC.

1.  Guarantee . For value received, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally and, subject to the
provisions of paragraphs number six and seven, irrevocably guarantees to each Party, the complete
payment when due, whether by acceleration or otherwise, of all payment obligations, whether now in
existence or hereafter arising (other than non-recourse payment obligations) of the Company,
including, without limitation, all payment obligations (other than non-recourse payment
obligations) in connection with any deposit, loan, letter of credit or similar borrowing or lending
obligation or arising under any swap, futures, option, forward or other derivative instrument (the
 Obligations ). This Guarantee is one of payment and not of collection.

2.  Waiver of Notice, etc . Except as may be required by the contract, agreement or
instrument creating the Obligations, the Guarantor hereby waives notice of acceptance of this
Guarantee and notice of the Obligations, and waives proof of reliance, diligence, presentment,
demand for payment, protest, notice of dishonor or non-payment of the Obligations, suit, and the
taking of any other action by any Party against, and any other notice to, the Company, the
Guarantor or others.

3.  Nature of Guarantee . This Guarantee shall be construed as a continuing, absolute and
unconditional guarantee of payment without regard to (a) the validity or enforceability of any
Obligation or right of offset with respect thereto at any time and from time to time held by any
Party or (b) any other circumstance whatsoever (with or without notice to or knowledge of the
Company or the Guarantor) which might constitute an equitable or legal discharge of the Company for
the Obligations, or of the Guarantor under this Guarantee, in bankruptcy, insolvency, dissolution,
examinership, reorganization or in any other instance;  provided ,  however , that under no
circumstances will the Guarantor be liable to any Party hereunder for any amount in excess of the
amount which the Company actually owes to such Party and that the Guarantor may

assert any defense to payment available to the Company, other than those arising in a bankruptcy,
examinership or insolvency proceeding.

A Party may at any time and from time to time without notice to or consent of the Guarantor and
without impairing or releasing the obligations of the Guarantor hereunder: (1) agree with the
Company to make any change in the terms of the Obligations; (2) take or fail to take any action of
any kind in respect of any security for any obligation or liability of the Company to such Party,
(3) exercise or refrain from exercising any rights against the Company or others in respect of the
Obligations; or (4) compromise or subordinate the Obligations. Any other suretyship defenses are
hereby waived by the Guarantor.

4.  Reinstatement . The Guarantor further agrees that this Guaranty shall continue to be
effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment, or any part thereof, of any
of the Obligations, or interest thereon is rescinded or must otherwise be restored or returned by
such Party upon the bankruptcy, insolvency, examinership dissolution or reorganization of the
Company.

5.  Subrogation . The Guarantor will not exercise any rights which it may acquire hereunder
by way of subrogation, as a result of a payment hereunder, until all due and unpaid Obligations to
such Party shall have been paid in full. Any amount paid to the Guarantor in violation of the
preceding sentence shall be held by the Guarantor for the benefit of such Party and shall forthwith
be paid to such Party to be credited and applied to the due and unpaid Obligations. Subject to the
foregoing, upon payment of all such due and unpaid Obligations, the Guarantor shall be subrogated
to the rights of such Party against the Company with respect to such Obligations, and such Party
agrees to take at the Guarantor s expense such steps as the Guarantor may reasonably request to
implement such subrogation.

6.  Amendment and Termination . This Guarantee may be amended or terminated, as to one Party,
all Parties or a group of specified Parties and as to one Obligation, all Obligations or specified
Obligations, at any time by (i) issuance by the Guarantor of a press release reported by the Dow
Jones News Service, the Associated Press or a comparable national news service, or (ii) written
notice signed by the Guarantor, with such amendment or termination effective with respect to a
Party on the opening of business on the fifth New York business day after earlier of the issuance
of such press release or the receipt of such written notice, as applicable;  provided ,  however , that
no such amendment or termination may adversely affect the rights of any Party relating to any
Obligations incurred prior to the effectiveness of such amendment or termination;  provided further ,
that any such amendment or termination may become effective as to one Party whether or not it
becomes effective with respect to another Party.

7.  Assignment . The Guarantor may not assign its rights nor delegate its obligations under
this Guarantee with respect to a Party, in whole or in part, without prior written consent of such
Party, and any purported assignment or delegation absent such consent is void, except for an
assignment and delegation of all of the Guarantor s rights and obligations hereunder in whatever
form the Guarantor determines may be appropriate to a partnership, corporation, trust or other
organization in whatever form that succeeds to all

2 

or substantially all of the Guarantor s assets and business and that assumes such obligations by
contract, operation of law or otherwise. Upon any such delegation and assumption of obligations,
the Guarantor shall be relieved of and fully discharged from all obligations hereunder, whether
such obligations arose before or after such delegation and assumption.

8.  Governing Law and Jurisdiction .  THIS GUARANTEE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS
OF LAW. GUARANTOR AGREES TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF COURTS LOCATED IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK,
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, OVER ANY DISPUTES ARISING UNDER OR RELATING TO THIS GUARANTEE. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Guarantor has duly executed this Guarantee as of the day and year first
above written.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 

By: 
Name:

/s/ Elizabeth E. Beshel

Elizabeth E. Beshel

Title:

Authorized Officer 

3 

</EX-10.59>

<EX-10.60>
 17
 y74032exv10w60.htm
 EX-10.60: GUARANTEE AGREEMENT - GS BANK USA

EX-10.60 

Exhibit 10.60 

GUARANTEE AGREEMENT 

GUARANTEE AGREEMENT , dated as of November 28, 2008 (this      Agreement     ), between The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the      Parent     ), and Goldman Sachs Bank
USA, a bank chartered under the Laws of the State of New York (together with its predecessors, the
     Bank     ).

RECITALS: 

WHEREAS, in connection with the Parent becoming a bank holding company under the U.S. Bank
Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, on September 21, 2008, Goldman Sachs Capital Markets,
L.P., a limited partnership organized under the Laws of the State of New York, was merged with and
into The Goldman Sachs Trust Company, a limited-purpose trust chartered under the Laws of the State
of New York (     GS Trust     ), then Goldman Sachs Capital Markets L.L.C., a Delaware limited
liability company, was merged with and into GS Trust, and then Goldman Sachs Bank USA, an
industrial bank chartered under the Laws of the State of Utah, was merged with and into GS Trust,
in each case with GS Trust as the surviving entity (collectively, the      Merger     );

WHEREAS, upon consummation of the Merger, GS Trust changed its name to Goldman Sachs Bank USA
and received approval to become a member bank of the Federal Reserve System (the      Federal
Reserve System     ) and to expand its banking powers;

WHEREAS, the Bank is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Parent;

WHEREAS, in connection with the restructuring described above, the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System (the      Federal Reserve Board     ) has provided guidance to the Bank via
teleconference and in a written summary, issued October 10, 2008, that sets forth the principal
terms of the exemption that it has granted to the Bank from the provisions of Section 23A of the
Federal Reserve Act, as amended (the      Section 23A Exemption     ), to permit the Parent or
another Affiliate to transfer certain assets to the Bank without complying with the provisions of
Regulation W that would otherwise apply to such transfers (such assets, as further defined below,
the      Transferred Assets     ), and has indicated that it will provide to the Bank a formal
written statement of all the terms of the Section 23A Exemption in due course;

WHEREAS, as a further condition to granting the Section 23A Exemption, the Federal Reserve
Board has imposed the requirement that the Parent provide certain guarantees in respect of the
Transferred Assets, and the Parent has agreed to provide such guarantees (collectively, the
     Guarantee     );

WHEREAS, this Agreement is intended to satisfy that condition; and

WHEREAS, upon receipt by the Bank of the final written statement of the terms of the Section
23A Exemption, the parties hereto intend to amend this Agreement and the Collateral Agreement (as
defined below), as necessary, to reflect the terms of such Section 23A Exemption;

NOW ,  THEREFORE , in consideration of the foregoing premises, and for other good and valuable
consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties to this
Agreement, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows:

1. Definitions; Interpretation. 

(a) The following terms have the following meanings:

Action      means any claim, action, suit, arbitration or proceeding by or before
any Governmental Authority or arbitral body.

Affiliate      means any  affiliate  of the Bank, as defined in Regulation W.

Agreement      has the meaning given to that term in the Preamble.

Bank      has the meaning given to that term in the Preamble.

Bank Subsidiary      means any Subsidiary of the Bank.

Business Day      means any day that (x) is not a Saturday, a Sunday or other day
on which commercial banks in The City of New York, State of New York, are required or
authorized by Law to be closed and (y) is a day on which the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
is open for trading during its regular trading session (notwithstanding its closing prior to
its scheduled closing time).

Collateral Agreement      means the Collateral Agreement, dated as of November 28,
2008, between the Bank and the Parent and certain of its Subsidiaries from time to time.

Credit-Related Losses      means any losses (any such loss to be calculated as the
difference, if negative, between the Original Transfer Value of such Transferred Asset and
its sale price) incurred upon the sale of any Transferred Assets by the Bank or any Bank
Subsidiary to any party other than the Bank or any other Bank Subsidiary, except to the
extent that the Bank determines, by reference to credit spreads applicable to the relevant
obligor and using the valuation methods used in the Bank s market and risk management
activities, that such losses do not arise from any deterioration in the creditworthiness of
any obligor in respect of such Transferred Asset.

Derivatives      means any swaps, options, futures, forwards, and other assets
arising from similar transactions.

Federal Reserve Board      has the meaning given to that term in the Recitals.

Federal Reserve System      has the meaning given to that term in the Recitals.

Governmental Authority      means any domestic or foreign governmental or
regulatory authority, agency, commission, body, court or other legislative, executive or
judicial governmental entity.

GS Trust      has the meaning given to that term in the Recitals.

Guarantee      has the meaning given to that term in the Recitals.

Law      means any federal, state, local or foreign law, statute or ordinance, or
any rule, regulation, standard or agency requirement, of any Governmental Authority.

Low-Quality Asset      has the meaning specified in Regulation W.

Merger      has the meaning given to that term in the Recitals.

Mortgage Servicing Rights      means the right to service a mortgage and collect a
fee.

Non-Bank Subsidiary      means any Subsidiary of the Parent other than the Bank or
any Bank Subsidiary.

"   Non-Performing Asset   "  means any Transferred Asset that the Bank has identified
as non-performing on the basis that, under the relevant documentation relating to such
Transferred Asset, a Default or Event of Default (each defined in such documentation) or any
similar event, however described, has occurred.

Original Transfer Value      means, with respect to any Transferred Asset, (x) if
that Transferred Asset was purchased by the Bank or any Bank Subsidiary from the Parent or
any Non-Bank Subsidiary, the purchase price paid by the Bank or such Bank Subsidiary for
such Transferred Asset, and (y) if that Transferred Asset was contributed to the Bank or any
Bank

2 

Subsidiary by the Parent or any Non-Bank Subsidiary, either directly or by contributing
the equity of or other interests in any Person that owns such Transferred Asset to the Bank
or any Bank Subsidiary, the fair value of the Transferred Asset as of the date initially
recognized by the Bank.

Parent      has the meaning given to that term in the Preamble.

Person      means a natural person, corporation, limited liability company,
partnership, joint venture, trust, estate, unincorporated organization or Governmental
Authority.

Regulation W      means the Federal Reserve regulation pursuant to Section 23A
codified at 12 C.F.R. Part 223.

Section 23A Exemption      has the meaning given to that term in the Recitals.

Servicing Advances      means a payment of funds by the Bank, as servicer of a
mortgage pursuant to any Transferred Mortgage Servicing Rights, for the purpose of
preserving collateral or enforcing rights.

Subsidiary      has the meaning given to that term in Regulation W.

Termination Date      means, with respect to any Transferred Asset, the earlier of
(x) the date on which all amounts due under or in respect of such Transferred Asset have
been paid in full, and (y) the date on which such Transferred Asset is sold by the Bank or
any Bank Subsidiary to any Person other than the Bank or any other Bank Subsidiary;
 provided, however,  that the Termination Date with respect to any Transferred Derivative
shall be the fifth anniversary of the date on which such Transferred Derivative was
transferred by the Parent or any Non-Bank Subsidiary to the Bank or any Bank Subsidiary.

Transferred Assets      has the meaning given to that term in the Recitals;
 provided, however,  that for the avoidance of doubt,      Transferred Assets      shall not
include any loans that are held by any Bank Subsidiary in which a participation has been
granted pursuant to the Master Participation Agreement entered into by certain Bank
Subsidiaries and certain Non-Bank Subsidiaries in connection with the Mergers.

Transferred Derivatives      means any Transferred Assets that are Derivatives.

Transferred Mortgage Servicing Rights      means any Transferred Assets that are
Mortgage Servicing Rights.

In interpreting this Agreement:

(i) words in the singular shall include the plural and vice versa, and words of one
gender shall include the other gender as the context requires;

(ii) references to Articles, Sections, paragraphs, Exhibits, Annexes and Schedules are
references to the Articles, Sections and paragraphs of, and Exhibits, Annexes and Schedules
to, this Agreement unless otherwise specified;

(iii) references to      $      shall mean U.S. dollars;

(iv) the words      includes      and      including      and words of similar import
shall be deemed to be followed by the words      without limitation      unless otherwise
specified;

(v) the word      or      shall not be exclusive;

(vi) the words      herein     ,      hereof      and      hereunder     , and similar
terms, are to be deemed to refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any specific
section;

3 

(vii) the headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and
shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement;

(viii) this Agreement shall be construed without regard to any presumption or rule
requiring construction or interpretation against the party drafting or causing any
instrument to be drafted;

(ix) if a word or phrase is defined, the other grammatical forms of such word or phrase
have a corresponding meaning; and

(x) references to any statute, listing rule, rule, standard, regulation or other law
(a) include a reference to the corresponding rules and regulations and (b) include a
reference to each of them as amended, modified, supplemented, consolidated, replaced or
rewritten from time to time; and

(xi) references to any section of any statute, listing rule, rule, standard, regulation
or other law include any successor to such section.

2. Parent Guarantee. 

The Guarantee shall consist of the following commitments of the Parent:

(a)  Repurchase of Low-Quality Assets. 

(i) The Parent hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to purchase or cause a
Non-Bank Subsidiary to purchase from the Bank or any Bank Subsidiary (A) any Transferred
Asset, other than any Transferred Derivative or Transferred Mortgage Servicing Right, that
becomes a Low-Quality Asset at any time subsequent to the transfer of such Transferred Asset
to the Bank or any Bank Subsidiary and prior to the Termination Date with respect to such
Transferred Asset, and (B) any Transferred Asset that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
or the Federal Reserve Board may require the Parent to purchase in the discretion of the
staff of either the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or the Federal Reserve Board;

(ii) The purchase price payable by the Parent or Non-Bank Subsidiary for any
Transferred Asset pursuant to this Section 2(a) shall be the Original Transfer Value of the
Transferred Asset.

(iii) Any purchases required to be made pursuant to this Section 2(a) shall occur not
later than fifteen (15) days following the end of the calendar quarter in which the
Transferred Asset became a Low-Quality Asset;  provided  that, to the extent the Transferred
Asset is a Non-Performing Asset, any such repurchase shall occur not later than fifteen (15)
days following its identification as such by the Bank.

(b)  Reimbursement. 

(i)  Credit-Related Losses .

(A) The Parent hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to reimburse the
Bank or any Bank Subsidiary for any Credit-Related Losses incurred by the Bank or
such Bank Subsidiary upon the sale of any Transferred Asset other than a Transferred
Derivative or a Transferred Mortgage Servicing Right to any Person other than the
Bank or any other Bank Subsidiary.

(B) The Parent shall pay all such reimbursements that it is required to pay to
the Bank pursuant to this Section 2(b)(i) no later than fifteen (15) days following
the end of the calendar quarter in which the sale was made;  provided  that, to the
extent the Transferred Asset is a Non-Performing Asset, any such reimbursement shall
occur not later than fifteen (15) days following its identification as such by the
Bank.

4 

(ii)  Derivatives .

(A) The Parent hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that, if the Bank
or any Bank Subsidiary downgrades the counterparty to any Transferred Derivative to
a seven or below in the Bank s internal credit rating system in any calendar quarter
during the five years immediately following the transfer of the Transferred
Derivative from the Parent or any Non-Bank Subsidiary to the Bank or any Bank
Subsidiary, the Parent will pay to the Bank or such Bank Subsidiary an amount equal
to any change in the credit valuation adjustment (minus the value of any hedge or
offsets held by the Bank or such Bank Subsidiary) relating to such Transferred
Derivative from the time of such transfer to the time of the downgrade.

(B) The Parent hereby further irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that, if
the counterparty to any Transferred Derivative defaults at any time during the five
years following the transfer of the Transferred Asset from Parent or any Non-Bank
Subsidiary to the Bank or any Bank Subsidiary, the Parent will pay the Bank or such
Bank Subsidiary an amount equal to the then-replacement cost of all of the Bank s
or such Bank Subsidiary s Transferred Derivative transactions with such
counterparty, net of proceeds from any liquidation of collateral applied by the
Bank or such Bank Subsidiary to the obligations of such counterparty under any such
Transferred Derivatives and any amounts recovered from the defaulting counterparty.

(C) In calculating the Parent s payment obligations upon a counterparty
default, as set forth in Section 2(b)(ii)(B), the Parent may reduce such
obligations:

(I) 
       
     by the amount of any previous
payment made by the Parent to the Bank or any Bank Subsidiary as
a result of an internal rating downgrade of the applicable
counterparty pursuant to Section 2(b)(ii)(A); 

(II) 
       
     to the extent that the Bank or any
Bank Subsidiary has received payment under any hedge or other
credit loss protection arrangement put in place with respect to
such Transferred Derivative (i) prior to the time at which such
Transferred Derivative was transferred to the Bank or any Bank
Subsidiary or (ii) after the time at which such Transferred
Derivative was transferred to the Bank or any Bank Subsidiary, if
the cost of such hedge or other credit loss protection
arrangement was paid by the Parent or any Non-Bank Subsidiary. 

In addition, to the extent that, after the time at which the Parent has made such a
payment to the Bank, the Bank receives payment under a hedge or other credit loss
protection arrangement meeting the criteria set forth in (i) or (ii) of the
foregoing clause (II) or otherwise receives payment from the defaulting
counterparty, the Bank or the relevant Bank Subsidiary shall reimburse the Parent
for any such payment so received by it.

(D) The Parent shall pay all such reimbursements that it is required to pay to
the Bank or any Bank Subsidiary pursuant to Section 2(b)(ii) no later than fifteen
(15) days following the end of the calendar quarter in which the derivatives
counterparty is downgraded by the Bank or such Bank Subsidiary or defaults, as
applicable;  provided, however,  that (A) to the extent the Transferred Asset is a
Non-Performing Asset, any such payment shall occur not later than fifteen (15) days
following its identification as such, and (B) with respect to any payment required
pursuant to Section 2(b)(ii)(B), such payment shall be made promptly following the
later of the date of such default and the date on which any collateral relating to
such counterparty has been liquidated and the

5 

proceeds, if any, of such liquidation have been received by the Bank but in no
event later than 180 days following the date of such default.

(E) As an alternative to the Parent making any payment that would otherwise be
required pursuant to this Section 2(b)(ii), the Parent may, at its option,
(I) repurchase by way of assignment, novation, participation or total return swap
the Transferred Derivative in respect of which the Parent would be required to make
such payment for an amount equal to the Original Transfer Value of such Transferred
Derivative or (II) to the extent permitted under the Federal Reserve Board s final
written statement of the terms of the Section 23A Exemption, post collateral of the
type set forth in Section 223.42(c)(1) of Regulation W with respect to any
Transferred Derivative in an amount equal to the then-current replacement cost of
all the Bank s derivative transactions with the relevant counterparty minus the
value of any collateral held and/or the mark-to-market value notional amount of any
credit loss protection owned by the Bank, which collateral would be returned to the
Parent upon the expiration of the Transferred Derivative.

(iii)  Mortgage Servicing Rights. 

(A) The Parent hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to reimburse the
Bank or any Bank Subsidiary an amount equal to any impairment recognized or direct
write-downs related to any Transferred Mortgage Servicing Rights or related
Servicing Advances.

(B) The Parent shall pay all such reimbursements that it is required to pay to
the Bank pursuant to this Section 2(b)(iii) no later than thirty (30) days
following the end of the calendar quarter in which the impairment was recognized or
the write-down taken.

(C) The Bank will hold an amount of risk-based capital equal to the impairment
recognized or direct write-down taken on any Transferred Mortgage Servicing Rights
or related Servicing Advances so long as the Bank retains ownership or control of
such Transferred Mortgage Servicing Rights or Servicing Advances, in lieu of the
risk-based capital that would otherwise apply to a similar asset that is not a
Transferred Mortgage Servicing Right or related Servicing Advance.

(D) As an alternative to the Parent making any payment that would otherwise be
required pursuant to this Section 2(b)(iii) and the maintenance of capital by the
Bank in accordance with Section 2(b)(iii)(C), the Parent may, at its option,
purchase the applicable Transferred Mortgage Servicing Rights and Servicing
Advances at an amount equal to the Original Transfer Value of such Transferred
Mortgage Servicing Rights or Servicing Advances, as applicable.

(E) In calculating the Parent s payment obligations pursuant to this Section
2(b)(iii), the Parent may reduce such obligations to the extent that the Bank or
any Bank Subsidiary has received payment under any hedge or other credit loss
protection arrangement put in place with respect to such Transferred Mortgage
Servicing Rights or Servicing Advances, as applicable, (i) prior to the time at
which such Transferred Mortgage Servicing Rights or Servicing Advances, as
applicable, was transferred to the Bank or any Bank Subsidiary or (ii) after the
time at which such Transferred Mortgage Servicing Rights or Servicing Advances, as
applicable, was transferred to the Bank or any Bank Subsidiary, if the cost of such
hedge or other credit loss protection arrangement was paid by the Parent or any
Affiliate of the Parent other than the Bank or any Bank Subsidiary.

3. Collateral. 

The Parent shall secure its obligations pursuant to this Agreement as set forth in the
Collateral Agreement.

6 

4. Termination. 

This Agreement shall terminate on the Business Day after the Termination Date of the last
Transferred Asset held by the Bank or any Bank Subsidiary.

5. Notices. 

Unless otherwise provided herein, all notices and other communications provided to either
party under this Agreement shall be in writing and addressed to such party at its address as set
forth below. Unless otherwise provided herein, any notice, if mailed and properly addressed with
postage prepaid, shall be deemed given three (3) Business Days after being sent; if hand delivered,
shall be deemed given on the date of such delivery; and if delivered by overnight courier, shall be
deemed given on the date of such delivery.

If to the Parent: 
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. 
1 New York Plaza 
New York, NY 10004 
Telephone: (212) 902-1000 
Attention: Treasury

If to the Bank: 
Goldman Sachs Bank USA 
85 Broad Street 
New York, New York 10004 
Telephone: (212) 902-1000 
Attention: General Counsel

6. Severability. 

If any term or other provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal or incapable of being
enforced under any Law or as a matter of public policy, all other conditions and provisions of this
Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect so long as the economic or legal
substance of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement is not affected in any manner
materially adverse to any party to this Agreement. Upon such determination that any term or other
provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the parties to this Agreement shall
negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties
as closely as possible in a mutually acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated
by this Agreement be consummated as originally contemplated to the greatest extent possible.

7. Entire Agreement. 

This Agreement, together with the Collateral Agreement, constitutes the entire agreement of
the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement and supersedes all prior
agreements and undertakings, both written and oral.

8. Assignment. 

This Agreement may not be assigned, in whole or in part, by either party, by operation of Law
or otherwise, without the express written agreement of the other party hereto. Any attempted
assignment in violation of this Section 8 shall be void, except that each party shall have the
right to assign all of its rights and obligations to any entity that succeeds, directly or
indirectly, to substantially all of such party s assets by merger or otherwise. This Agreement
shall be binding upon, shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be enforceable by the parties
hereto and their permitted successors and assigns.

7 

9. Amendment or Modification. 

This Agreement may be amended or modified only by an agreement in writing executed by both of
the parties hereto;  provided  that the parties hereto agree that, upon receipt by the Bank of the
final written statement of the terms of the Section 23A Exemption, they shall amend this Agreement
as necessary to reflect the terms and conditions contained in such statement.

10. No Third-Party Beneficiaries. 

This Agreement is for the sole benefit of the parties to this Agreement and their permitted
successors and assigns and nothing in this Agreement, express or implied, is intended to or shall
confer upon any other person or party any legal or equitable right, benefit or remedy of any nature
whatsoever under or by reason of this Agreement.

11. Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction; Waiver of Jury Trial. 

(a) This Agreement shall in all respects be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the
Laws of the State of New York.

(b) Each of the Parent and the Bank irrevocably and unconditionally:

(i) submits for itself and its property in any Action arising out of or relating to the
interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement and of the documents
referred to in this Agreement and in respect of the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement, to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Courts of the State of New York sitting in
the County of New York, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New
York, and appellate courts having jurisdiction of appeals from any of the foregoing, and
agrees that all claims in respect of any such Action shall be heard and determined in such
New York State court or, to the extent permitted by Law, in such federal court;

(ii) consents that any such Action may and shall be brought in such courts and waives
any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the venue or jurisdiction of any such
Action in any such court or that such Action was brought in an inconvenient court and agrees
not to assert, plead or claim the same;

(iii) agrees that service of process in any such Action may be effected by mailing a
copy of such process by registered or certified mail (or any substantially similar form of
mail), postage prepaid, to such party at its address as provided in Section  and

(iv) agrees that nothing in this Agreement shall affect the right to effect service of
process in any other manner permitted by the Laws of the State of New York.

(c) EACH PARTY ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT ANY CONTROVERSY THAT MAY ARISE UNDER THIS
AGREEMENT IS LIKELY TO INVOLVE COMPLICATED AND DIFFICULT ISSUES, AND THEREFORE EACH SUCH PARTY
HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT SUCH PARTY MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN
RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, OR
THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT.

12. Counterparts. 

This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties to
each such agreement in separate counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an
original but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of
an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Agreement by facsimile or in Portable Document
File (PDF) format shall be as effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this
Agreement.

8 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Guarantee Agreement as of the date
set forth below.

Date:   November 28, 2008 

PARENT:    THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:   
     /s/ Elizabeth E. Beshel

Name:   
     Elizabeth E. Beshel  

Title:   
     Treasurer  

THE BANK:    GOLDMAN SACHS BANK USA  

By:   
     /s/ Peter O Hagan

Name:   
     Peter O Hagan  

Title:   
     Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-10.60>

<EX-10.61>
 18
 y74032exv10w61.htm
 EX-10.61: COLLATERAL AGREEMENT

EX-10.61 

Exhibit 10.61 

COLLATERAL AGREEMENT

dated as of November 28, 2008

between

GOLDMAN SACHS BANK USA,

and

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC., AS PARENT, 
EACH SUBSIDIARY OF THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 
THAT IS A SIGNATORY HERETO, AS PLEDGORS 
and 
EACH OTHER PLEDGOR WHO BECOMES PARTY 
TO THIS AGREEMENT FROM TIME TO TIME

COLLATERAL AGREEMENT

COLLATERAL AGREEMENT , dated as of November 28, 2008 (this      Agreement     ), is made
between  Goldman Sachs Bank USA , a bank chartered under the Laws of the State of New York (the
     Bank     ), and  The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. , a Delaware corporation (the      Parent     ),
each Subsidiary of the Parent that is a signatory hereto and, each other party who becomes a
Pledgor pursuant to this Agreement from time to time (each of the Parent, each such Subsidiary and
each such other pledgor, a      Pledgor     ).

RECITALS: 

WHEREAS , in connection with the Parent becoming a bank holding company under the U.S. Bank
Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, on September 21, 2008, Goldman Sachs Capital Markets,
L.P., a limited partnership organized under the Laws of the State of New York, was merged with and
into The Goldman Sachs Trust Company, a limited-purpose trust chartered under the Laws of the State
of New York (     GS Trust     ), then Goldman Sachs Capital Markets L.L.C., a Delaware limited
liability company, was merged with and into GS Trust, and then Goldman Sachs Bank USA, an
industrial bank chartered under the Laws of the State of Utah, was merged with and into GS Trust,
in each case with GS Trust as the surviving entity (collectively, the      Merger     );

WHEREAS,  upon consummation of the Merger, GS Trust changed its name to Goldman Sachs Bank USA
and received approval to become a member bank of the Federal Reserve System (the      Federal
Reserve System     ) and to expand its banking powers;

WHEREAS , the Bank is a wholly owned Subsidiary of the Parent;

WHEREAS,  in connection with the restructuring described above, the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System (the      Federal Reserve Board     ) has provided guidance to the Bank via
teleconference and in a written summary, issued October 10, 2008, that sets forth the principal
terms of the exemption it has granted the Bank from the provisions of Section 23A of the Federal
Reserve Act, as amended (the      Section 23A Exemption     ), to permit the Parent or another
Affiliate to transfer certain assets to the Bank without complying with the provisions of
Regulation W that would otherwise apply to such transfers (such assets, the      Transferred
Assets     ), and has indicated that it will provide to the Bank a formal written statement of all
the terms of the Section 23A Exemption in due course;

WHEREAS,  as a condition to granting the Section 23A Exemption, the Federal Reserve Board has
imposed the requirement that the Parent provide certain guarantees in respect of the Transferred
Assets, and the Parent has agreed to provide such guarantees (collectively, the
     Guarantee     ), pursuant to the Guarantee Agreement, dated as of November 28, 2008 (the
     Guarantee Agreement     ), between the Parent and the Bank;

WHEREAS , as a further condition to granting the Section 23A Exemption, the Federal Reserve
Board has required that the Parent pledge or cause its subsidiaries to pledge certain Collateral to
the Bank to secure the obligations of the Parent pursuant to the Guarantee Agreement;

WHEREAS,  this Agreement is intended to satisfy such condition; and

WHEREAS,  upon receipt by the Bank of the final written statement of the terms of the Section
23A Exemption, the parties hereto intend to amend this Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement, as
necessary to reflect the terms of such Section 23A Exemption;

NOW ,  THEREFORE , in consideration of the foregoing premises, and for other good and valuable
consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parent, the Bank
and each other Pledgor from time to time, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows:

SECTION 1. DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION 

1.1  General Definitions.  For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms have the
following meanings:

Affiliate      means any  affiliate  of the Bank as defined in Regulation W.

Agreement      has the meaning specified in the Preamble.

Bank      has the meaning specified in the Preamble.

Business Day      means any day that (x) is not a Saturday, a Sunday or other day on
which commercial banks in The City of New York, State of New York, are required or authorized by
Law to be closed and (y) is a day on which the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. is open for trading
during its regular trading session (notwithstanding its closing prior to its scheduled closing
time).

Cash Collateral Account      means any deposit accounts at the Bank identified on
 Schedule 1  from time to time, including any successor or replacement accounts acquired after the
date of this Agreement.

Certificated Security      has the meaning specified in Article 8 of the UCC.

Collateral      has the meaning specified in Section 2(a).

Commodities Accounts      has the meaning specified in Article 9 of the UCC.

Federal Reserve Board      has the meaning specified in the Recitals.

Federal Reserve System      has the meaning specified in the Recitals.

Fund      means any investment vehicle created in the ordinary course of the private
equity, mezzanine lending or hedge fund business of the Parent or any of its Subsidiaries and in
which equity interests are sold to third parties.

General Intangibles      has the meaning specified in Article 9 of the UCC.

Governmental Authority      means any domestic or foreign governmental or regulatory
authority, agency, commission, body, court or other legislative, executive or judicial governmental
entity.

GS Trust      has the meaning specified in the Recitals.

Guarantee      has the meaning specified in the Recitals.

Guarantee Agreement      has the meaning specified in the Recitals.

Haircut      means, with respect to any Security, Pledged Equity Interest, General
Intangible or Instrument, the percentage specified with respect to such Security in  Schedule 1  from
time to time.

-2- 

Instruments      has the meaning specified in Article 9 of the UCC.

Investment Property      has the meaning specified in Article 9 of the UCC.

Law      means any federal, state, local or foreign law, statute or ordinance, or any
rule, regulation, standard or agency requirement, of any Governmental Authority.

Lien      means any mortgage, deed of trust, pledge, hypothecation, security interest,
encumbrance, claim, lien or charge of any kind.

Merger      has the meaning specified in the Recitals.

Original Transfer Value      has the meaning specified in the Guarantee Agreement.

Outstanding Aggregate Transfer Value      means, on any date, the aggregate Original
Transfer Value of all the Transferred Assets with respect to which the Termination Date has not
occurred on or prior to that date.

Parent      has the meaning specified in the Preamble.

Permitted Filings      means any financing statements or other instruments similar in
effect, whether already filed or filed hereafter, in connection with Permitted Liens.

Permitted Liens      means any Liens, whether now existing or hereafter arising, granted
by any Pledgor with respect to Pledged Equity Interests owned by such Pledgor, to secure the
performance of the obligations of such Pledgor or any other Person under any agreement entered into
by such Pledgor in connection with its acquisition of or ownership of such Pledged Equity
Interests.

Person      means an individual, corporation, association, partnership, trust, joint
venture, business trust or incorporated organization or other entity or organization, or a
Governmental Authority.

Pledged Equity Interests      has the meaning specified in Section 2(a)(iii).

Pledgor      has the meaning specified in the Preamble.

Proceeds      means: (i) all      proceeds      as defined in Article 9 of the UCC and
(ii) whatever is receivable or received when Collateral or proceeds are sold, exchanged, collected
or otherwise disposed of, whether such disposition is voluntary or involuntary.

Record      has the meaning specified in Article 9 of the UCC.

Regulation W      means Regulation W of the Federal Reserve Board, 12 C.F.R. Part 223.

Section 23A Exemption      has the meaning specified in the Recitals.

Secured Obligations      has the meaning specified in Section 3.

Securities      has the meaning specified in Section 2(a)(ii).

Securities Account      has the meaning specified in Article 8 of the UCC.

Subsidiary      has the meaning given to that term in Regulation W.

-3- 

Termination Date      has the meaning specified in the Guarantee Agreement.

Transferred Assets      has the meaning specified in the Recitals.

UCC      means at any time the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in the State of New
York;  provided, however,  that if, by reason of mandatory provisions of Law, the validity or
perfection of the Bank s security interest in any item of Collateral is governed by the Uniform
Commercial Code as in effect in a jurisdiction other than New York,      UCC      means the Uniform
Commercial Code as in effect in such other jurisdiction for purposes of the provisions hereof
relating to such validity or perfection.

Uncertificated Securities      has the meaning specified in Article 8 of the UCC.

Value      has the meaning specified in Section 5.

Valuation Date      means the last Business Day in each calendar quarter beginning with
the last such Business Day in December 2008, for so long as this Agreement shall be in effect.

1.2  Interpretation. 

In interpreting this Agreement:

(a) words in the singular shall include the plural and vice versa, and words of one gender
shall include the other gender as the context requires;

(b) references to Articles, Sections, paragraphs, Exhibits, Annexes and Schedules are
references to the Articles, Sections and paragraphs of, and Exhibits, Annexes and Schedules to,
this Agreement unless otherwise specified;

(c) references to      $      shall mean U.S. dollars;

(d) the words      includes      and      including      and words of similar import shall be
deemed to be followed by the words      without limitation      unless otherwise specified;

(e) the word      or      shall not be exclusive;

(f) the words      herein     ,      hereof      or      hereunder     , and similar terms,
are to be deemed to refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any specific section;

(g) the headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not
affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement;

(h) this Agreement shall be construed without regard to any presumption or rule requiring
construction or interpretation against the party drafting or causing any instrument to be drafted;

(i) if a word or phrase is defined, the other grammatical forms of such word or phrase have a
corresponding meaning;

(j) references to any statute, listing rule, rule, standard, regulation or other law
(i) include a reference to the corresponding rules and regulations and

-4- 

(ii) include a reference to each of them as amended, modified, supplemented, consolidated,
replaced or rewritten from time to time;

(k) references to any section of any statute, listing rule, rule, standard, regulation or
other law include any successor to such section; and

(l) all references herein to provisions of the UCC shall include all successor provisions
under any subsequent version or amendment to any Article of the UCC.

SECTION 2. GRANT OF SECURITY INTEREST 

(a) Each Pledgor hereby grants to the Bank, for the Bank s benefit, a security interest in
and continuing lien on all of such Pledgor s right, title and interest in, to and under all of the
following types of collateral listed in  Schedule 1  with respect to such Pledgor from time to time,
in each case whether now owned or existing or hereafter acquired or arising and wherever located
(all of which are collectively referred to as the      Collateral     ):

(i) all Cash Collateral Accounts and all deposits credited to the Cash Collateral
Accounts;

(ii) all Securities Accounts and all stocks, bonds, security entitlements, financial
assets or other securities, financial assets or investment property (as such terms are
defined in the UCC) now or hereafter in the possession, custody or control of the Bank,
including any of the foregoing from time to time deposited in or credited to such Securities
Accounts (the    Securities   

(iii) interests in general or limited partnerships, limited liability companies and
shares or other equity interests in companies or business trusts (collectively,    Pledged
Equity Interests   

(iv) all General Intangibles;

(v) all Instruments; and

(vi) all Proceeds, products, accessions and profits of or in respect of the foregoing.

(b) All the Collateral shall be subject to review and approval by the Federal Reserve Board.

(c) For the avoidance of doubt, the parties agree that in the case of Pledged Equity
Interests, the Collateral includes any obligations associated with such Pledged Equity Interests.

SECTION 3. SECURITY FOR GUARANTEE 

This Agreement shall secure, and the Collateral shall be collateral security for, the prompt
and complete payment and performance when due of all of the Parent s obligations under the
Guarantee Agreement (the    Secured Obligations   ).

-5- 

SECTION 4. COLLATERAL REQUIREMENT; SUBSTITUTIONS 

(a) The Parent shall, at all times prior to the termination of the Guarantee Agreement, cause
Collateral to be maintained subject to a fully perfected security interest under this Agreement
with an aggregate Value not less than five percent (5%) of the Outstanding Aggregate Transfer
Value.

(b) If the aggregate Value of the Collateral on any Valuation Date, as determined pursuant to
Section 5, is less than five percent (5%) of the Outstanding Aggregate Transfer Value as of that
date, then not later than five (5) Business Days following such determination the Parent shall
pledge or cause one or more of its Subsidiaries to pledge additional Collateral to the Bank in an
amount that will restore the total Value of the Collateral to not less than five percent (5%) of
such Outstanding Aggregate Transfer Value as determined on such Valuation Date.

(c) If the aggregate Value of the Collateral on any Valuation Date, as determined pursuant to
Section 5, is greater than five percent (5%) of the Outstanding Aggregate Transfer Value, then the
Bank shall, without unreasonable delay, take such measures as may be necessary to release the Lien
of the Bank on those portions of the Collateral designated by the Parent and having a Value as of
such Valuation Date not greater than the amount of the excess;  provided, however,  that if the
aggregate Value of the Collateral immediately after giving effect to the release of the Collateral
so designated would be less than the amount required pursuant to Sections 4(a) and 4(b), then the
Bank will have no obligation to release any Collateral pursuant to this Section 4(c).

(d) If any Pledgor wishes to obtain the release of any Collateral that has been pledged by it
pursuant hereto, then it may provide or cause another Pledgor to provide replacement Collateral to
the Bank with a Value at the time of such substitution, as determined pursuant to Section 5, not
less than the Value of the Collateral that is to be released. Upon the delivery of such
replacement Collateral to the Bank and/or the completion of all measures necessary to provide to
the Bank a fully perfected security interest in such replacement Collateral, the Bank shall,
without unreasonable delay, take such measures as may be necessary to release the Lien of the Bank
on the Collateral to be released;  provided, however,  that if the aggregate Value of the Collateral
immediately after giving effect to the delivery of such replacement Collateral and the release of
the Collateral to be released would be less than the amount required pursuant to Sections 4(a) and
4(b), then the Bank will have no obligation to release any Collateral pursuant to this Section
4(d).

SECTION 5. VALUATION 

(a) For purposes of this Agreement, the      Value      of each type of Collateral on any
date shall be determined by the Bank as follows:

(i) the      Value      of any Cash Collateral Accounts or deposit credited to any Cash
Collateral Account shall be the balance thereof as of the close of business on the Business
Day immediately preceding the relevant date; and

(ii) the      Value      of any other Collateral shall be (i) if the asset is recorded
in the books and records on which the consolidated audited financial statements of the
Parent are based, the valuation assigned to such Collateral as of the close of business on
the most recent regular valuation date prior to the relevant date on which The Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. has determined such valuation for purposes

-6- 

of maintaining its books and records or applying its market and risk management systems
to such asset, and (ii) if such asset is not so recorded, the valuation assigned to such
asset by the Bank in the exercise of its reasonable discretion,  multiplied by,  in either
case, 1  minus  the applicable Haircut;

provided, however,  that if any Collateral is subject to any Permitted Lien and the Valuation
of such Collateral has not already been reduced to reflect such Permitted Lien, the Bank may
reduce the Value allocated to such Collateral as it deems appropriate to reflect the prior
obligation secured by such Permitted Lien.

(b) The Bank shall determine the aggregate Value of the Collateral as of the close of
business on each Valuation Date and provide notice of such aggregate Value to the Parent not later
than 11:00 a.m., New York time, on the next Business Day.

SECTION 6. REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS 

6.1  General. 

(a)  Representations and Warranties.  Each Pledgor represents and warrants that:

(i) it owns the Collateral purported to be owned by it and otherwise has the rights it
purports to have in each item of Collateral pledged by it and, as to all such Collateral
whether now existing or hereafter acquired, will continue to own or have such rights in each
item of such Collateral, in each case free and clear of any and all Liens, rights or claims
of all other Persons, except for the (i) security interest created by or in connection with
this Agreement, including liens arising as a result of such Pledgor becoming bound (as a
result of merger or otherwise) as debtor under a security agreement entered into by another
Person and (ii) Permitted Liens;

(ii) other than any financing statements filed in favor of the Bank pursuant to or in
connection with this Agreement, no effective UCC financing statement, fixture filing or
other Instrument similar in effect under any applicable Law covering all or any part of the
Collateral is on file in any filing or recording office except for Permitted Filings;

(iii) except for those that have been obtained or made, no authorization, approval or
other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any Governmental Authority or Person is
required for either (x) the pledge or grant by it of the Liens purported to be created in
favor of the Bank hereunder or (y) except as set forth in  Schedule 1  or as referred to in
Section 8.4 from time to time with respect to any item of Collateral, the exercise by the
Bank of any rights or remedies in respect of any Collateral (whether specifically granted or
created hereunder or created or provided for by applicable Law);

(iv) except with regard to cash and cash equivalents, the pledge of and grant of a
security interest in the Collateral pursuant to this Agreement together with the delivery of
the relevant certificates to the Bank, the filing of the appropriate UCC financing
statements in the jurisdictions agreed with the Bank, the entry into appropriate control
agreements, compliance with requirements under the laws in which the issuers of any Pledged
Equity Interests are formed and compliance with any other requirements set forth in this
Section 6.1, will constitute all actions and consents necessary to create and perfect
security interests in all of the Collateral,

-7- 

and all actions and consents necessary to create and perfect the security interests in
all of the Collateral granted under this Agreement have been made or obtained or will, at or
prior to the time at which any substitute or additional Collateral is pledged hereunder, be
made or obtained, and the security interests granted to the Bank hereunder will constitute
valid and perfected security interests in all of the Collateral;

(v) as of the date hereof, the chief place of business of the Parent and the office at
which the Parent keeps all records concerning the Collateral pledged by it and all
certificates evidencing the Collateral pledged by it is located in the State of New York,
and the chief place of business of each other Pledgor and the office at which such other
Pledgor keeps all records concerning the Collateral pledged by it and all certificates, if
any, evidencing the Collateral pledged by it is specified on  Schedule 1 ;

(vi) all information supplied by it with respect to any of the Collateral pledged by it
(in each case taken as a whole with respect to any particular Collateral) is accurate and
complete in all material respects; and

(vii) the pledge of the Collateral by it pursuant to this Agreement does not violate
any of the regulations of the Federal Reserve Board.

(b)  Covenants and Agreements.  Each Pledgor hereby covenants and agrees that:

(i) except for the security interests (i) created by or in connection with this
Agreement and (ii) Permitted Liens, it shall not create or suffer to exist any Lien upon or
with respect to any of the Collateral and it shall defend the Collateral against all Persons
at any time claiming any interest therein;

(ii) it shall not produce, use or permit any Collateral to be used unlawfully or in
violation of any provision of this Agreement or any applicable Law or any policy of
insurance covering the Collateral;

(iii) it shall pay promptly when due all property and other taxes, assessments and
governmental charges or levies imposed upon, and all claims against, the Collateral, except
to the extent the validity thereof is being contested in good faith in accordance with the
rights set forth below. In the event the Parent chooses to contest the validity of any
taxes, assessments, governmental charges, levies imposed upon, and any claim against it, it
may only do so if, at the time of commencement of any such action or proceeding and during
the pendency thereof, adequate reserves with respect thereto, shall have been deposited with
the applicable court or other relevant authority or with the Bank or otherwise made in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

(iv) upon any of such Pledgor s officers obtaining knowledge thereof, it shall promptly
notify the Bank in writing of any levy of any legal process against the Collateral pledged
by such Pledgor or any portion thereof;

(v) it shall not take or permit any action that could reasonably be expected to
materially impair the Bank s rights in the Collateral;

-8- 

(vi) except for Permitted Liens, it shall not directly or through any other Person
sell, assign, pledge or otherwise transfer or seek to transfer (by operation of law or
otherwise) any Collateral or any interest therein;

(vii) without the prior written consent of the Bank, it shall not become bound under
Section 9-203 of the UCC by any other security agreement with any other Person with respect
to the Collateral; and

(viii) it shall, at any time and from time to time, give, execute and/or deliver any
notice, certificates or other Instruments evidencing any Collateral, powers of assignment,
document, agreement or other papers that the Bank shall reasonably deem necessary or
advisable to create, preserve, perfect or validate the security interest created hereby or
to enable the Bank to exercise and enforce its rights hereunder with respect to such
security interest.

6.2  Investment Property; Pledged Equity Interests. 

(a)  Representations and Warranties.  Each Pledgor hereby represents and warrants as follows:

(i) it is the record and beneficial owner of all of the Securities and Pledged Equity
Interests, free of Liens, rights or claims of other Persons, other than the security
interest (i) created by or in connection with this Agreement and (ii) Permitted Liens, and
there are no warrants, options or other rights to purchase, or shareholder voting trusts or
similar agreements outstanding with respect to, or property that is convertible into, or
that requires the issuance or sale of, any Pledged Equity Interests;

(ii) no default by such Pledgor exists under any partnership agreement, limited
liability company agreement or similar agreement related to any Pledged Equity Interest to
which it is a party and no event has occurred or exists that, with notice or lapse of time
or both, would constitute a default by the Parent thereunder; and to its best knowledge, no
defaults by any partner or partners other than such Pledgor under any of the partnership
agreements exist that, individually or in the aggregate, would be materially adverse to the
Bank and no events have occurred or exist that, with the giving of notice or lapse of time
or both, would constitute such defaults; each of the partnership or limited liability
agreements relating to any Pledged Equity Interests pledged by it, a true and complete copy
of which will be furnished to the Bank upon the pledge of any interest in such partnership
by such Pledgor, has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by such Pledgor and is in
full force and effect and has not been amended or modified except as disclosed in writing to
the Bank; and

(iii) it has taken all actions necessary (x) to establish the Bank s  control  (within
the meanings of Sections 8-106 and 9-106 of the UCC) over any portion of the Collateral that
constitutes Certificated Securities, Uncertificated Securities, Securities Accounts or
Commodities Accounts (each as defined in the UCC) and (y) to deliver all Instruments to the
Bank.

(b)  Covenants and Agreements.  Each Pledgor hereby covenants and agrees that:

-9- 

(i) without the prior written consent of the Bank, it shall not vote to enable or take
any other action to: (a) amend or terminate any partnership agreement, limited liability
company agreement, certificate of incorporation, by-laws or other organizational documents
in any way that materially and adversely affects the validity, perfection or priority of the
Bank s security interest; (b) permit any issuer of any Pledged Equity Interest that is a
Subsidiary of such Pledgor and that is not a Fund to issue any additional stock, partnership
interests, limited liability company interests or other equity interests of any nature or to
issue securities convertible into or granting the right of purchase or exchange for any
stock or other equity interest of any nature of such issuer in any way that materially and
adversely affects the validity, perfection or priority of the Bank s security interest;
(c) permit any issuer of any Pledged Equity Interest that is a Subsidiary of such Pledgor
and that is not a Fund to dispose of all or a material portion of its assets; (d) during the
continuance of any breach by the Parent of its obligations under or pursuant to the
Guarantee Agreement, waive any material default under or breach of any material terms of any
organizational document relating to the issuer of any Pledged Equity Interest; or (e) cause
any issuer of any Pledged Equity Interests that is a Subsidiary of such Pledgor that are not
securities (for purposes of the UCC) on the date on which such interests are pledged
pursuant to this Agreement to elect or otherwise take any action to cause such Pledged
Equity Interests to be treated as securities for purposes of the UCC or to cause the
issuance of certificates or other evidence of Pledged Equity Interests, respectively,
without the consent of the Bank;  provided, however,  that notwithstanding the foregoing, if
any issuer of any Pledged Equity Interests takes any such action in violation of the
foregoing in this clause (e), such Pledgor shall promptly notify the Bank in writing of any
such election or action and, in such event, shall take all steps necessary or advisable to
establish the Bank s  control  thereof;

(ii) if such Pledgor receives any dividends, interest or distributions on any
Investment Property, or any securities or other property, in each case upon the merger,
consolidation, liquidation or dissolution of any issuer of any Investment Property, then
(x) such dividends, interest or distributions and securities or other property shall be
included in the definition of Collateral without further action and (y) such Pledgor shall
either (A) within thirty (30) days take all steps, if any, necessary or advisable to ensure
the validity, perfection, priority and, if applicable, control of the Bank over such
dividends, interest or distributions and securities or other property (including delivery
thereof to the Bank), or (B) arrange for replacement Collateral pursuant to Section 4(d) of
this Agreement, and pending any such action such Pledgor shall be deemed to hold such
dividends, interest, distributions, securities or other property in trust for the benefit of
the Bank and such property shall be segregated from all other property of such Pledgor.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, so long as no breach by the Parent of its obligations under
or pursuant to the Guarantee Agreement shall have occurred and be continuing, the Bank
authorizes such Pledgor to retain all cash dividends and distributions and all payments of
interest and principal;

(iii) it shall comply in all material respects with all of its obligations under any
partnership agreement, limited liability company agreement or similar agreement related to
any Pledged Equity Interest and shall enforce in all material respects all of its rights
with respect to any Investment Property;

-10- 

(iv) without the prior written consent of the Bank, it shall not permit any issuer of
any Pledged Equity Interest which is a Subsidiary to merge or consolidate unless all the
outstanding capital stock or other equity interests of the surviving or resulting
corporation, limited liability company, partnership or other entity is, upon such merger or
consolidation, pledged hereunder and no cash, securities or other property is distributed in
respect of the outstanding equity interests of any other constituent company other than in
compliance herewith; and

(v) it shall take all actions necessary to register the pledge of any partnership
interest on the books and records of the appropriate partnership.

(c)  Voting and Distributions. 

(i) So long as no breach by the Parent of its obligations under or pursuant to the
Guarantee Agreement shall have occurred and be continuing:

(A) except as otherwise provided in Section 6.2(b)(i), such Pledgor shall be
entitled to exercise or refrain from exercising any and all voting and other
consensual rights pertaining to the Investment Property or any part thereof,
 provided  that such Pledgor shall not exercise or refrain from exercising any such
right for any purpose inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement or the Guarantee
Agreement; it being understood, however, that for the purpose of this proviso,
neither the voting by such Pledgor of any Pledged Equity Interests for, or such
Pledgor s consent to, the election of directors (or similar governing body) at any
meeting of stockholders (or similar body) or action by written consent in lieu
thereof or with respect to incidental matters at any such meeting or in such
consent, nor such Pledgor s consent to or approval of any action otherwise permitted
under this Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement, shall be deemed inconsistent with
the terms of this Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement within the meaning of this
Section 6.2(c)(i)(A); and

(B) the Bank shall promptly execute and deliver (or cause to be executed and
delivered) to such Pledgor all proxies, and other Instruments as such Pledgor may
from time to time reasonably request for the purpose of enabling such Pledgor to
exercise the voting and other consensual rights when and to the extent which it is
entitled to exercise pursuant to clause (A) above.

(ii) Upon the occurrence and during the continuation of a breach by the Parent of its
obligations under or pursuant to the Guarantee Agreement:

(A) all rights of such Pledgor to exercise or refrain from exercising the
voting and other consensual rights that it would otherwise be entitled to exercise
pursuant hereto shall cease and all such rights shall thereupon become vested in the
Bank who shall thereupon have the sole right but not the obligation to exercise such
voting and other consensual rights; and

(B) in order to permit the Bank to exercise the voting and other consensual
rights that it may be entitled to exercise pursuant hereto and to receive all
dividends and other distributions which it may be entitled to receive hereunder:
(A) such Pledgor shall promptly execute and deliver (or
cause to be executed and delivered) to the Bank all proxies, dividend

-11- 

payment
orders and other Instruments as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request
and (B) such Pledgor acknowledges that the Bank may utilize the power of attorney
set forth in Section 8.1(a).

6.3  General Intangibles. 

(a)  Representations and Warranties.  Each Pledgor hereby represents and warrants that the
General Intangibles, true and complete copies (including any amendments or supplements thereof) of
which will be furnished to the Bank at the time that such General Intangibles are pledged by such
Pledgor, have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by such Pledgor and (to the knowledge
of such Pledgor) the other parties thereto, are in full force and effect and are binding upon and
enforceable against such Pledgor and (to the knowledge of such Pledgor) the other parties thereto,
in accordance with their respective terms, subject to the effect of bankruptcy, insolvency,
reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws affecting rights of creditors generally and
general principles of equity.

(b)  Covenants and Agreements.  Each Pledgor hereby covenants and agrees that:

(i) upon the occurrence and during the continuation of a breach by the Parent of its
obligations under or pursuant to the Guarantee Agreement, the Bank may if it deems
reasonably necessary at any time, notify, or require the Parent to so notify, the
counterparty on any General Intangible of the security interest of the Bank therein. In
addition, after the occurrence and during the continuance of such breach, the Bank may upon
written notice to such Pledgor, notify, or require such Pledgor to notify, the counterparty
to make all payments under the General Intangibles directly to the Bank;

(ii) after the occurrence and during the continuance of a breach by the Parent of its
obligations under or pursuant to the Guarantee Agreement, such Pledgor shall deliver
promptly to the Bank a copy of each material demand, notice or document received by it
relating in any way to any instrument, contract or agreement forming a part of the
Collateral;

(iii) it shall perform in all material respects all of its obligations with respect to
the General Intangibles except where failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to
have a material adverse effect on the value of such Collateral or the validity, perfection
or priority of the Bank s security interest;

(iv) it shall in its reasonable business judgment and consistent with its past practice
exercise each material right it may have under any General Intangible at its own expense,
and in connection with such collections and exercise, such Pledgor shall take such action as
such Pledgor or, after the occurrence and during the continuance of a breach by the Parent
of its obligations under or pursuant to the Guarantee Agreement, the Bank may deem necessary
or advisable;

(v) it shall use its commercially reasonable business judgment, consistent with its
past practice, in deciding whether or not to keep in full force and effect any General
Intangible pledged hereunder.

-12- 

SECTION 7. FURTHER ASSURANCES 

7.1  Further Assurances by the Pledgors.  Each Pledgor agrees that, upon request from time to
time, at such Pledgor s expense, it will promptly execute and deliver all further instruments and
documents, and take all further action, that may be necessary or advisable, or that the Bank may
reasonably request, in order to create and/or maintain the validity, perfection or priority of and
protect any security interest granted hereby or to enable the Bank to exercise and enforce its
rights and remedies hereunder with respect to any Collateral. Without limiting the generality of
the foregoing, each Pledgor agrees that it will:

(a) file such financing or continuation statements, or amendments thereto, and execute and
deliver such other agreements, instruments, endorsements, powers of attorney or notices, as may be
necessary or advisable, or as the Bank may reasonably request, in order to perfect and preserve
the security interests granted or purported to be granted hereby; and

(b) at the Bank s request, appear in and defend any action or proceeding that may affect such
Pledgor s title to or the Bank s security interest in all or any part of the Collateral.

7.2  Further Filings by the Bank.  Each Pledgor hereby authorizes the Bank to file a Record or
Records, including financing or continuation statements, and amendments thereto, in any
jurisdictions and with any filing offices as the Bank may determine, in its sole discretion, are
necessary or advisable to perfect the security interest granted to the Bank herein. Such financing
statements may describe the Collateral in the same manner as described herein or may contain an
indication or description of collateral that describes such property in any other manner as the
Bank may determine, in its sole discretion, is necessary, advisable or prudent to ensure the
perfection of the security interest in the Collateral granted to the Bank herein.

SECTION 8. REMEDIES 

8.1  Remedies. 

(a) If at any time the Parent has failed to comply with its repurchase or reimbursement
obligations under Section 2 of the Guarantee Agreement, which failure has continued without remedy
or waiver for more than thirty (30) days following notice from the Bank of such failure, the Bank
may exercise in respect of the Collateral, in addition to all other rights and remedies provided
herein or otherwise available to it at law or in equity, all the rights and remedies of a secured
party under the UCC in effect in the State of New York (whether or not the UCC applies to the
affected Collateral) to collect, enforce or satisfy any obligations then owing, and also may
pursue any of the following separately, successively or simultaneously:

(i) take possession of the Collateral or any part thereof by directing each Pledgor, in
writing, to assemble all or part of the Collateral and deliver the identified Collateral to
the Bank at any place or places reasonably designated by the Bank;

(ii) transfer any of the Collateral into the name of the Bank or its nominee(s);

-13- 

(iii) upon written notice to each Pledgor, exercise all voting rights attributable to
the Collateral (whether or not transferred into the name of the Bank) and give all consents,
waivers and ratifications in respect of such Collateral and otherwise act with respect
thereto as though it were the outright owner thereof (each Pledgor hereby irrevocably
constituting and appointing the Bank the proxy and attorney-in-fact of such Pledgor for such
purposes, with full power of substitution to do so);

(iv) sell, lease, assign, license (on an exclusive or nonexclusive basis) or otherwise
dispose of all or any part of the Collateral, at such place or places as the Bank deems
best, and for cash or for credit or for future delivery (without the Bank thereby assuming
any credit risk), at a public or private sale, at any of the Bank s offices or elsewhere,
without demand of performance or notice of intention to effect any such disposition or of
the time or place thereof (except such notice as is required above or by applicable statute
and cannot be waived), for cash, on credit or for future delivery, at such time or times and
at such price or prices and upon such other terms as the Bank may deem commercially
reasonable. The Bank may, without notice or publication, adjourn any public or private sale
or cause the same to be adjourned from time to time by announcement at the time and place
fixed for the sale, and such sale may be made at any time or place to which the sale may be
so adjourned; and

(v) demand, sue for, collect or receive, in its name or in the name of such Pledgor or
otherwise, any money or property at any time payable or receivable on account of or in
exchange for any of the Collateral, but shall be under no obligation to do so.

(b) Any Person may be the purchaser, lessee, assignee or recipient of any or all of the
Collateral disposed of at any public sale (or, to the extent permitted by Law, at any private
sale) and thereafter hold the same absolutely, free from any claim or right of whatsoever kind,
including any right or equity of redemption (statutory or otherwise), of such Pledgor, any such
demand, notice and right or equity being hereby expressly waived and released.

(c) To the extent the Bank may take remedies under Section 8.1(a), during the continuance of
a breach by the Parent of its obligations under or pursuant to the Guarantee Agreement (and only
during such continuance), the Bank may sell the Collateral without giving any warranties as to the
Collateral. The Bank may specifically disclaim or modify any warranties of title or the like. This
procedure will not be considered to adversely affect the commercial reasonableness of any sale of
the Collateral.

(d) If, during the continuance of a breach by the Parent of its obligations under or pursuant
to the Guarantee Agreement (and only during such continuance) and to the extent the Bank may take
remedies under Section 8.1(a), any Pledgor receives any dividends, distributions or other payments
from Securities or Pledged Equity Interests pledged by such Pledgor as Collateral, such Pledgor
shall, without any further demand from the Bank, pay such dividends, distributions or other
payments to the Bank immediately upon receipt of such dividends, distributions or other payments.

8.2  Remedies Cumulative.  Each and every right, power and remedy of the Bank provided for in
this Agreement or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or by statute shall be cumulative
and concurrent and shall be in addition to every

-14- 

other such right, power or remedy. The exercise or beginning of the exercise by the Bank of
any one or more of the rights, powers or remedies provided for in this Agreement or now or
hereafter existing at law or in equity or by statute or otherwise shall not preclude the
simultaneous or later exercise by the Bank of all such other rights, powers or remedies, and no
failure or delay on the part of the Bank to exercise any such right, power or remedy shall impair
any such right, power or remedy or operate as a waiver thereof or preclude the further exercise of
any such right, power or remedy. No notice to or demand on any Pledgor in any case shall entitle
such Pledgor to any other or further notice or demand in similar or other circumstances or
constitute a waiver of any of the rights of the Bank to any other or further action in any
circumstances without notice or demand.

8.3  Deficiencies and Excess Proceeds.  The Bank shall transfer or cause to be transferred to
applicable Pledgor any Proceeds and Collateral remaining after sale, collection or other
realization of all or any part of the Collateral in accordance with Section 8.1 after satisfaction
in full of the Guarantee; the Parent in all events will remain liable for any amounts remaining
unpaid after any sale, collection or other realization of all or any part of the Collateral in
accordance with Section 8.1.

8.4  Consents Required Prior to Exercise of Remedies.  The Bank acknowledges that the terms and
conditions of some or all of the Pledged Equity Interests and certain other Collateral hereunder,
or of instruments, contracts, agreements or Laws relating to the issuers of such Pledged Equity
Interests or to which such issuers are parties or are subject require or may require that certain
consents, authorizations and approvals be obtained from, or notices be made to or filings be made
with, such issuers, other holders of interests in such issuers, lenders or other creditors of such
issuers, certain Governmental Authorities and certain other Persons. The Bank acknowledges that
exercising its rights to foreclose on any such Collateral pursuant to this Section 8 prior to the
receipt of any or all of those consents, authorizations or approvals, or the making of such notices
or filings, may result in a substantial and precipitous impairment in the Value of such Collateral,
which impairment would not occur if the Bank obtained such consents, authorizations or approvals or
made such notices or filings. The Bank further acknowledges that the existence of such requirements
has been disclosed to it, that it has taken such requirements into account in determining the Value
of such Collateral for purposes of this Agreement and the related Haircuts, and that in evaluating
whether any proposed disposition of any Collateral is commercially reasonable, within the meaning
of the UCC, it must assess the impact that foreclosure without obtaining such consents,
authorizations or approvals, or making such notices or filings, would have on the proceeds that the
Bank would obtain as a result of such foreclosure.

8.5  Obligations Relating to Pledged Equity Interests.  For the avoidance of doubt, the parties
agree that upon (but only upon, and not in any event prior to) any foreclosure upon any Pledged
Equity Interests, the Bank or any other purchaser of such Pledged Equity Interests shall be
required to assume any obligations associated with such Pledged Equity Interests.

SECTION 9. CONTINUING SECURITY INTEREST 

This Agreement shall create a continuing security interest in the Collateral and shall remain
in full force and effect, be binding upon the Pledgors, their respective successors and assigns,
and inure, together with the rights and remedies of the Bank hereunder, to the benefit of the Bank
and to its respective successors, transferees and assigns until the Termination Date.

-15- 

SECTION 10. TERMINATION 

This Agreement shall terminate on the Business Day after the Termination Date of the last
Transferred Asset held by the Bank.

SECTION 11. MISCELLANEOUS 

(a) If any provision in or obligation under this Agreement shall be invalid, illegal or
unenforceable in any jurisdiction, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining
provisions or obligations, or of such provision or obligation in any other jurisdiction, shall not
in any way be affected or impaired thereby so long as the economic or legal substance of the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any
party to this Agreement. Upon such determination that any term or other provision is invalid,
illegal or incapable of being enforced, the parties to this Agreement shall negotiate in good faith
to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible
in a mutually acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated by this Agreement be
consummated as originally contemplated to the greatest extent possible.

(b) If any Person who is not a Pledgor under this Agreement intends to become a Pledgor
hereunder, it may do so by executing a joinder agreement with the Bank in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, and upon such execution by such Person and the Bank, such Person shall
become a Pledgor hereunder with all the rights and obligations set forth in this Agreement.

(c) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Bank and the Pledgors
and their respective successors and assigns. The Parent and each Pledgor shall not, without the
prior written consent of the Bank, assign any right, duty or obligation hereunder and any purported
assignment without such consent shall be void, except that Parent shall have the right to assign
all of its rights and obligations to any entity that succeeds, directly or indirectly, to
substantially all of Parent s assets by merger or otherwise.

(d) This Agreement, together with the Guarantee Agreement, embodies the entire agreement and
understanding between the Pledgors and the Bank, and supersedes all prior agreements and
understandings between such parties, relating to the subject matter hereof and thereof (other than
the Agreement).

(e) This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts and by different parties hereto
in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed an original,
but all such counterparts together shall constitute but one and the same instrument; signature
pages may be detached from multiple separate counterparts and attached to a single counterpart so
that all signature pages are physically attached to the same document.

(f) This Agreement may be amended or modified only by an agreement in writing executed by each
of the parties hereto;  provided, however,  that the parties hereto agree that, upon receipt by the
Bank of the final written statement of the terms of the Section 23A Exemption, they shall amend
this Agreement as necessary to reflect the terms and conditions contained in such statement.

(g) This Agreement is for the sole benefit of the parties to this Agreement and their
permitted successors and assigns and nothing in this Agreement, express or implied,

-16- 

is intended to or shall confer upon any other person or party any legal or equitable right,
benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever under or by reason of this Agreement.

(h) Each party hereto irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent permitted
by applicable law, any and all right to trial by jury in any legal proceeding arising out of or
relating this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.

(i) This Agreement and the rights and obligations of the parties hereunder shall be governed
by, and shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, the Laws of the State of New York.

-17- 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the parties hereto have caused this Collateral Agreement to be duly
executed and delivered personally or by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as
applicable, as of the date first written above.

GOLDMAN SACHS BANK USA  

By:   
     /s/ Peter O Hagan

Name:   
     Peter O Hagan  

Title:   
     Chief Executive Officer  

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:   
     /s/ Elizabeth E. Beshel

Name:   
     Elizabeth E. Beshel  

Title:   
     Treasurer  

GSEM (DEL) HOLDINGS, L.P.  

By: Goldman Sachs Global Holdings L.L.C. 

By:

/s/ Manda J. D Agata 

Name:

Manda J. D Agata

Title:

Assistant Treasurer 

-2- 

GOLDMAN SACHS GLOBAL HOLDINGS L.L.C.  

By:

/s/ Manda J. D Agata 

Name:

Manda J. D Agata

Title:  

Assistant Treasurer 

-3- 

SITE 26 HOLDINGS INC.  

By:

/s/ Dino Fusco 

Name:

Dino Fusco

Title:

Assistant Vice President 

-4- 

GSJC LAND L.L.C.  

By:

/s/ Dino Fusco 

Name:

Dino Fusco

Title:

Vice President 

-5- 

GSIP HOLDCO A LLC  

By: THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:

/s/ Manda J. D Agata 

Name:

Manda J. D Agata

Title:  

Assistant Treasurer 

-6- 

</EX-10.61>

<EX-10.62>
 19
 y74032exv10w62.htm
 EX-10.62: FORM OF PERFORMANCE-BASED ONE-TIME RSU AWARD AGREEMENT

EX-10.62 

Exhibit 10.62 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
____ PERFORMANCE-BASED ONE-TIME RSU AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of this special    
performance-based one-time award (this  Award ) of restricted stock units ( One-time RSUs ) granted
to you under The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.   In light of the U.S. tax rules relating to deferred
compensation in Section 409A of the Code, to the extent that you are a United States taxpayer,
certain provisions of this Award Agreement and of the Plan shall apply only as provided in
Paragraph 15   . 

2.  Award . The number of One-time RSUs subject to this Award is set forth in the Award
Statement delivered to you. An RSU is an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver (or cause to be
delivered) to you, subject to the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, a share of Common
Stock (a  Share ) on the Delivery Date or as otherwise provided herein. Until such delivery, you
have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc.
  This Award is conditioned on your executing the related signature card and returning it to the
address designated on the signature card and/or by the method designated on the signature card by
the date specified, and is subject to all terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan and this
Award Agreement, including, without limitation, the arbitration and choice of forum provisions set
forth in Paragraph 12  .   By executing the related signature card (which, among other
things, opens the custody account referred to in paragraph 3(   b   ) if you have not done so
already), you will have confirmed your acceptance of all of the terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement.  

3.  Vesting and Delivery .

(a)  Vesting . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 6, 7, 9,
10 and 15, on each Vesting Date you shall become Vested in the number or percentage of One-time
RSUs specified next to such Vesting Date on the Award Statement (which may be rounded to avoid
fractional Shares). While continued active Employment is not required in order to receive delivery
of the Shares underlying your Outstanding One-time RSUs that are or become Vested, all other terms
and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply to such Vested One-time RSUs, and
failure to meet such terms and conditions may result in the termination of this Award (as a result
of which no Shares underlying such Vested One-time RSUs would be delivered).

(b)  Delivery .

(i) The Delivery Dates with respect to this Award shall be the dates specified (next to the
number or percentage of One-time RSUs) as such on your Award Statement if such date is during a
Window Period or, if such date is not during a Window Period, the first Trading Day of the first
Window Period beginning after such date. For this purpose, a  Trading Day  is a day on which
Shares trade regular way on the New York Stock Exchange.

(ii) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10 and 15, in
accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than thirty (30)
Business Days) after each date specified as a Delivery Date (or any other date delivery of Shares
is called for hereunder), Shares underlying the number or percentage of your then Outstanding
One-time RSUs with respect to which such Delivery Date (or other date) has occurred (which number
of Shares may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) shall be delivered by book entry credit to
your Custody Account or to a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or become considered by GS Inc. to be one of its  covered
employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then you shall be subject to Section
3.21.3 of the Plan, as a result of which delivery of your Shares may be delayed.

(iii) In accordance with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the discretion of the Committee, in
lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable in respect of all or any portion of
your One-time RSUs, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other Awards or other property,
and all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of Shares shall include such deliveries of
cash, other securities, other Awards or other property.

(iv) In the discretion of the Committee, delivery of Shares may be made initially into an
escrow account meeting such terms and conditions as are determined by the Firm and may be held in
that escrow account until such time as the Committee has received such documentation as it may have
requested or until the Committee has determined that any other conditions or restrictions on
delivery of Shares required by this Award Agreement have been satisfied. By accepting your
One-time RSUs, you have agreed on behalf of yourself (and your estate or other permitted
beneficiary) that the Firm may establish and maintain an escrow account on such terms and
conditions (which may include, without limitation, your executing any documents related to, and
your paying for any costs associated with, such escrow account) as the Firm may deem necessary or
appropriate. Any such escrow arrangement shall, unless otherwise determined by the Firm, provide
that (A) the escrow agent shall have the exclusive authority to vote such Shares while held in
escrow and (B) dividends paid on such Shares held in escrow may be accumulated and shall be paid as
determined by the Firm in its discretion.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement (except
Paragraphs 9(i) and 15), if you die prior to the Delivery Date, the Shares underlying your then
Outstanding One-time RSUs shall be delivered to the representative of your estate as soon as
practicable after the date of death and after such documentation as may be requested by the
Committee is provided to the Committee. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you
may be permitted to specifically bequeath some or all of your Outstanding One-time RSUs under your
will to an organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other
similar charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

4.  Termination of One-time RSUs and Non-Delivery of Shares .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 6,
7, and 9(g), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm, your rights in respect of your One-time RSUs that were Outstanding but that
had not yet become Vested immediately prior to your termination of Employment immediately shall
terminate, such One-time RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered in
respect thereof.

(b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 6 and 7,
your rights in respect of all of your Outstanding One-time RSUs (whether or not Vested)
immediately shall terminate, such One-time RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall
be delivered in respect thereof if:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

-2- 

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(iii) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any
Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or
are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected
Firm Personnel;

(iv) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

(v) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, any offer letter, employment
agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the Firm
are a party;

(vi) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for delivery of Shares in respect of this Award Agreement are invalid; or

(vii) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Outstanding One-time RSUs.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (i) any Firm employee or
consultant (A) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (B) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (ii) any Managing Director of the Firm. For the avoidance
of doubt, failure to pay or reimburse the Firm, upon demand, for any amount you owe to the Firm
shall constitute (i) failure to meet an obligation you have under an agreement referred to in
Paragraph 4(b)(v) regardless of whether such obligation arises under a written agreement, and/or
(ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting Cause referred to in Paragraph 4(b)(ii).

5.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which requires Award
recipients to repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that all
terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied) shall
apply to this Award.

6.  Extended Absence.  

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraph
6(b), in the event of the termination of your Employment (determined as described in Section 1.2.19
of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be
waived with

-3- 

respect to any One-time RSUs that were Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested
immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such One-time RSUs shall
become Vested), but all other terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply.

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b), your rights in respect of your
Outstanding One-time RSUs that become Vested in accordance with Paragraph 6(a) immediately shall
terminate, such Outstanding One-time RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall be
delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the original Vesting Date with respect to such One-time
RSUs, you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation
interest in, any Competitive Enterprise, or (ii) associate in any capacity (including, but not
limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor)
with any Competitive Enterprise. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise determined by the
Committee in its discretion, this Paragraph 6(b) will not apply if your termination of Employment
by reason of Extended Absence is characterized by the Firm as  involuntary  or by  mutual
agreement  other than for Cause and if you execute such a general waiver and release of claims and
an agreement to pay any associated tax liability, both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its
designee. No termination of Employment initiated by you, including any termination claimed to be a
 constructive termination  or the like or a termination for good reason, will constitute an
 involuntary  termination of Employment or a termination of Employment by  mutual agreement. 

7.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement (except Paragraphs 9(i) and 15), in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within
18 months thereafter the Firm terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your
Employment for Good Reason, all Shares underlying your then Outstanding One-time RSUs, whether or
not Vested, shall be delivered.

8.  Dividend Equivalent Rights . Each One-time RSU shall include a Dividend Equivalent
Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding One-time RSUs, at or after the time
of distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date
for which occurs on or after the Date of Grant, you shall be entitled to receive an amount (less
applicable withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect
of the Share underlying such Outstanding One-time RSU. Payment in respect of a Dividend Equivalent
Right shall be made only with respect to One-time RSUs that are Outstanding on the relevant record
date. Each Dividend Equivalent Right shall be subject to the provisions of Section 2.8.2 of the
Plan.

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or delivery of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such
amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from
the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award. In addition, if you
are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the Firm s
   fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to provide for a reserve in an
amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or
potential tax consequences related to your separate employment contracts by requiring you to choose
between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in
the form
of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award
(or any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no event, however, shall any choice you may
have under the preceding two sentences determine, or give you any discretion to affect, the timing
of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax obligations.

-4- 

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the One-time RSUs are
conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly
situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of your One-time RSUs are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning
trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards
(including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS
Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your One-time
RSUs in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with respect
to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to the timing
of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation or
aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you understand and
agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses associated
with your One-time RSU Award, including without limitation, such brokerage costs or other fees or
expenses in connection with the sale of Shares delivered to you hereunder.

(f) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS
Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization or any agency, or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment, your continued holding of your Outstanding One-time RSUs would result in
an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9(g)(i), you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding One-time RSUs;

then, in the case of Paragraph 9(g)(i) above only, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall
be waived with respect to any One-time RSUs you then hold that had not yet become Vested (as a
result of which such One-time RSUs shall become Vested) and, in the case of Paragraphs 9(g)(i) and
9(g)(ii) above, at the sole discretion of the Firm, you shall receive either a lump sum cash
payment in respect of, or delivery of the Shares
underlying, your then Outstanding Vested One-time RSUs, in each case as soon as practicable after
the Committee has received satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment.

-5- 

(h) In addition to and without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of
the Plan, neither the Firm nor any Covered Person shall have any liability to you or any other
person for any action taken or omitted in respect of this or any other Award.

(i) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, the Plan or otherwise, by
accepting your One-time RSUs, you understand and agree that, if you are or become a  senior
executive officer  (as defined in the regulations promulgated under the Emergency Economic
Stabilization Act of 2008 (the Act, together with the regulations, the  EESA )):

(i) No term or condition will apply to your One-time RSUs to the extent that such term or
condition would result in a violation of the Firm s obligations under the U.S. Treasury s TARP
Capital Purchase Program (the  CPP ), as determined by the Firm in its sole discretion;

(ii) The Firm reserves the right to add any terms or conditions to your One-time RSUs as the
Firm deems necessary in its sole discretion to satisfy the Firm s obligations under the CPP;

(iii) You will be required to repay any Shares delivered pursuant to any One-time RSUs, in
accordance with Paragraph 5 and Section 2.6.3 of the Plan, as the Firm deems necessary in its sole
discretion to satisfy the Firm s obligations under the CPP; and

(iv) You agree to waive any claim against the United States or the Firm for any amendments to
your One-time RSUs that the Firm deems necessary in its sole discretion to satisfy its obligations
under the CPP. This waiver includes all claims you may have under the laws of the United States or
any state related to the requirements imposed by the EESA, including without limitation a claim for
any compensation or other payments you would otherwise receive, any challenge to the process by
which the EESA was adopted and any tort or constitutional claim about the effect of the EESA on
your employment relationship.

10.  Right of Offset . Except as provided in Paragraph 15(h), the obligation to deliver
Shares under this Award Agreement is subject to Section 3.4 of the Plan, which provides for the
Firm s right to offset against such obligation any outstanding amounts you owe to the Firm and any
amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement.

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend the Award Agreement and the Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4)
of the Plan. For the avoidance of doubt, your acceptance of Paragraph 9(i) constitutes your
consent to any amendments (including amendments which materially adversely affect your rights and
obligations) to your One-time RSUs contemplated under such Paragraph. Any amendment of this Award
Agreement shall be in writing signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or
persons designated by the Committee.

12.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum . BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO
OR CONCERNING THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW
YORK CITY, PURSUANT TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY.

-6- 

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations on transferability set forth in Section
3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in violation of
the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may
adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of One-time RSUs may transfer some or all
of their One-time RSUs through a gift for no consideration to any child, stepchild, grandchild,
parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law,
son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, any
person sharing the recipient s household (other than a tenant or employee), a trust in which these
persons have more than 50% of the beneficial interest, and any other entity in which these persons
(or the recipient) own more than 50% of the voting interests.

14.  Governing Law . THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.

15.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan With Section 409A . The provisions of this
Paragraph 15 apply to you only if you are a United States taxpayer.

(a) References in this Award Agreement to  Section 409A  refer to Section 409A of the Code,
including any amendments or successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other
administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or
interpreted through further administrative guidance. This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions
that apply to this Award are intended and shall be construed to comply with Section 409A (including
the requirements applicable to, or the conditions for exemption from treatment as, a  deferral of
compensation  or  deferred compensation  as those terms are defined in the regulations under
Section 409A ( 409A deferred compensation ), whether by reason of short-term deferral treatment or
other exceptions or provisions). The Committee shall have full authority to give effect to this
intent. To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including, without limitation, Sections
1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement shall
govern, and in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 15 and
the other provisions of this Award Agreement, this Paragraph 15 shall govern ;  provided, however, in
the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 15 and Paragraph 9(i),
Paragraph 9(i) shall govern . 

(b) Delivery of Shares shall not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable conditions
or restrictions on delivery of Shares in respect of your One-time RSUs required by this Agreement
(including, without limitation, those specified in Paragraphs 3(b) and (c), 6(b) (execution of
waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax liability) and 9 and the consents
and other items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are satisfied, and shall occur by March 15 of
the calendar year in which the Delivery Date occurs unless, in order to permit such conditions or
restrictions to be satisfied, the Committee elects, pursuant to Treasury Regulations section
( Reg. ) 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted in accordance with Section 409A, to
delay delivery of Shares to a later date within the same calendar year or to such later date as may
be permitted under Section 409A, including, without limitation, Regs. 1.409A-2(b)(7) (in
conjunction with Section 3.21.3 of the Plan pertaining to Code Section 162(m)) and 1.409A-3(d).

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3(b)(iii) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to
the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property
that the Firm may deliver in respect of your One-time RSUs shall not have the effect of deferring
delivery or
payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the date on which such
delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would lapse, with respect to
the Shares that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a later date for
this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted under Section
409A, including, without limitation and to the

-7- 

extent applicable, the subsequent election
provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).

(d) Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 3(c), the delivery of Shares referred
to therein shall be made after the date of death and during the calendar year that includes the
date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A).

(e) The delivery of Shares referred to in Paragraph 7 shall occur on the earlier of (i) the
Delivery Date or (ii) within the calendar year in which the termination of Employment occurs;
provided, however, that, if you are a  specified employee  (as defined by the Firm in accordance
with Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code), delivery shall occur on the earlier of the Delivery
Date or (to the extent required to avoid the imposition of additional tax under Section 409A) the
date that is six months after your termination of Employment (or, if the latter date is not during
a Window Period, the first trading day of the next Window Period). For purposes of Paragraph 7,
references in this Award Agreement to termination of Employment mean separation from service (as
defined by the Firm in accordance with Section 409A).

(f) Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 8 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the contrary,
the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding One-time RSUs shall be paid
to you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any corresponding regular
cash dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for which occurs on or after
the Date of Grant. The payment shall be in an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such
regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the Shares underlying such
Outstanding One-time RSUs.

(g) The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 9(g) shall be the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) within the calendar year in which the Committee receives satisfactory
documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such delivery or payment shall
be made only at such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as reasonably determined by the
Firm, would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you under Section 409A.

(h) Paragraph 10 and Section 3.4 of the Plan shall not apply to Awards that are 409A deferred
compensation.

(i) Delivery of Shares in respect of any Award may be made, if and to the extent elected by
the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, in
the case of any Award that constitutes 409A deferred compensation, only to the extent that the
later delivery is permitted under Section 409A).

16.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

-8- 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:

Name:

Title:

-9- 

</EX-10.62>

<EX-10.63>
 20
 y74032exv10w63.htm
 EX-10.63: FORM OF MAKE-WHOLE ONE-TIME RSU AWARD AGREEMENT

EX-10.63 

Exhibit 10.63 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN  
                        MAKE-WHOLE ONE-TIME RSU AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of this special    make-whole
one-time award (this  Award ) of restricted stock units ( One-time RSUs ) granted to you under The
Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.   In light of the U.S. tax rules relating to deferred
compensation in Section 409A of the Code, to the extent that you are a United States taxpayer,
certain provisions of this Award Agreement and of the Plan shall apply only as provided in
Paragraph 15   . 

2.  Award . The number of One-time RSUs subject to this Award is set forth in the Award
Statement delivered to you. An RSU is an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver (or cause to be
delivered) to you, subject to the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, a share of Common
Stock (a  Share ) on the Delivery Date or as otherwise provided herein. Until such delivery, you
have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc.
  This Award is conditioned on your executing the related signature card and returning it to the
address designated on the signature card and/or by the method designated on the signature card by
the date specified, and is subject to all terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan and this
Award Agreement, including, without limitation, the arbitration and choice of forum provisions set
forth in Paragraph 12  .   By executing the related signature card (which, among other
things, opens the custody account referred to in paragraph 3(   b   ) if you have not done so
already), you will have confirmed your acceptance of all of the terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement.  

3.  Vesting and Delivery .

(a)  Vesting . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 6, 7, 9,
10 and 15, on each Vesting Date you shall become Vested in the number or percentage of One-time
RSUs specified next to such Vesting Date on the Award Statement (which may be rounded to avoid
fractional Shares). While continued active Employment is not required in order to receive delivery
of the Shares underlying your Outstanding One-time RSUs that are or become Vested, all other terms
and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply to such Vested One-time RSUs, and
failure to meet such terms and conditions may result in the termination of this Award (as a result
of which no Shares underlying such Vested One-time RSUs would be delivered).

(b)  Delivery .

(i) The Delivery Dates with respect to this Award shall be the dates specified (next to the
number or percentage of One-time RSUs) as such on your Award Statement if such date is during a
Window Period or, if such date is not during a Window Period, the first Trading Day of the first
Window Period beginning after such date. For this purpose, a  Trading Day  is a day on which
Shares trade regular way on the New York Stock Exchange.

(ii) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10 and 15, in
accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than thirty (30)
Business Days) after each date specified as a Delivery Date (or any other date delivery of Shares
is called for hereunder), Shares underlying the number or percentage of your then Outstanding
One-time RSUs with respect to which such Delivery Date (or other date) has occurred (which number
of Shares may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) shall be delivered by book entry credit to
your Custody Account or to a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or become considered by GS Inc. to be one of its  covered
employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then you shall be subject to Section
3.21.3 of the Plan, as a result of which delivery of your Shares may be delayed.

(iii) In accordance with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the discretion of the Committee, in
lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable in respect of all or any portion of
your One-time RSUs, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other Awards or other property,
and all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of Shares shall include such deliveries of
cash, other securities, other Awards or other property.

(iv) In the discretion of the Committee, delivery of Shares may be made initially into an
escrow account meeting such terms and conditions as are determined by the Firm and may be held in
that escrow account until such time as the Committee has received such documentation as it may have
requested or until the Committee has determined that any other conditions or restrictions on
delivery of Shares required by this Award Agreement have been satisfied. By accepting your
One-time RSUs, you have agreed on behalf of yourself (and your estate or other permitted
beneficiary) that the Firm may establish and maintain an escrow account on such terms and
conditions (which may include, without limitation, your executing any documents related to, and
your paying for any costs associated with, such escrow account) as the Firm may deem necessary or
appropriate. Any such escrow arrangement shall, unless otherwise determined by the Firm, provide
that (A) the escrow agent shall have the exclusive authority to vote such Shares while held in
escrow and (B) dividends paid on such Shares held in escrow may be accumulated and shall be paid as
determined by the Firm in its discretion . 

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement (except
Paragraphs 9(i) and 15), if you die prior to the Delivery Date, the Shares underlying your then
Outstanding One-time RSUs shall be delivered to the representative of your estate as soon as
practicable after the date of death and after such documentation as may be requested by the
Committee is provided to the Committee. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you
may be permitted to specifically bequeath some or all of your Outstanding One-time RSUs under your
will to an organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other
similar charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

4.  Termination of One-time RSUs and Non-Delivery of Shares .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 6,
7, and 9(g), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm, your rights in respect of your One-time RSUs that were Outstanding but that
had not yet become Vested immediately prior to your termination of Employment immediately shall
terminate, such One-time RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered in
respect thereof.

(b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 6 and 7,
your rights in respect of all of your Outstanding One-time RSUs (whether or not Vested)
immediately shall terminate, such One-time RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall
be delivered in respect thereof if:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

-2- 

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(iii) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any
Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or
are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected
Firm Personnel;

(iv) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

(v) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, any offer letter, employment
agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the Firm
are a party;

(vi) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for delivery of Shares in respect of this Award Agreement are invalid; or

(vii) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Outstanding One-time RSUs.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (i) any Firm employee or
consultant (A) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (B) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (ii) any Managing Director of the Firm. For the avoidance
of doubt, failure to pay or reimburse the Firm, upon demand, for any amount you owe to the Firm
shall constitute (i) failure to meet an obligation you have under an agreement referred to in
Paragraph 4(b)(v) regardless of whether such obligation arises under a written agreement, and/or
(ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting Cause referred to in Paragraph 4(b)(ii)).

5.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which requires Award
recipients to repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that all
terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied) shall
apply to this Award.

6.  Extended Absence, Retirement and Downsizing.  

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraph
6(b), in the event of the termination of your Employment (determined as described in Section 1.2.19
of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement (as defined below), the condition set
forth in

-3- 

Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with respect to any One-time RSUs that were Outstanding but
that had not yet become Vested immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of
which such One-time RSUs shall become Vested), but all other terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement shall continue to apply. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan or
otherwise,  Retirement  means termination of your Employment (other than for Cause) on or after the
Date of Grant at a time when (i) the sum of your age plus years of service with the Firm (as
determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) equals or exceeds 60 and (ii) you have
completed at least ten (10) years of service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its
sole discretion).

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b), your rights in respect of your
Outstanding One-time RSUs that become Vested in accordance with Paragraph 6(a) immediately shall
terminate, such Outstanding One-time RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall be
delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the original Vesting Date with respect to such One-time
RSUs, you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation
interest in, any Competitive Enterprise, or (ii) associate in any capacity (including, but not
limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor)
with any Competitive Enterprise. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise determined by the
Committee in its discretion, this Paragraph 6(b) will not apply if your termination of Employment
by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement is characterized by the Firm as  involuntary  or by
 mutual agreement  other than for Cause and if you execute such a general waiver and release of
claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability, both as may be prescribed by the Firm
or its designee. No termination of Employment initiated by you, including any termination claimed
to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination for good reason, will constitute an
 involuntary  termination of Employment or a termination of Employment by  mutual agreement. 

(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement and subject to your executing
such general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability,
both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee, if your Employment is terminated without
Cause solely by reason of a  downsizing,  the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived
with respect to your One-time RSUs that were Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested
immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such One-time RSUs shall
become Vested), but all other conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply. Whether
or not your Employment is terminated solely by reason of a  downsizing  shall be determined by the
Firm in its sole discretion. No termination of Employment initiated by you, including any
termination claimed to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination for good
reason, will be solely by reason of a  downsizing. 

7.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement (except Paragraphs 9(i) and 15), in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within
18 months thereafter the Firm terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your
Employment for Good Reason, all Shares underlying your then Outstanding One-time RSUs, whether or
not Vested, shall be delivered.

8.  Dividend Equivalent Rights . Each One-time RSU shall include a Dividend Equivalent
Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding One-time RSUs, at or after the time
of distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date
for which occurs on or after the Date of Grant, you shall be entitled to receive an amount (less
applicable withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect
of the Share underlying such Outstanding One-time RSU. Payment in respect of a Dividend Equivalent
Right shall be made only with respect to One-
time RSUs that are Outstanding on the relevant record date. Each Dividend Equivalent Right
shall be subject to the provisions of Section 2.8.2 of the Plan.

-4- 

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or delivery of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such
amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from
the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award. In addition, if you
are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the Firm s
   fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to provide for a reserve in an
amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or
potential tax consequences related to your separate employment contracts by requiring you to choose
between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in
the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this
Award (or any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no event, however, shall any choice you
may have under the preceding two sentences determine, or give you any discretion to affect, the
timing of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the One-time RSUs are
conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly
situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of your One-time RSUs are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning
trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards
(including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS
Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your One-time
RSUs in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with respect
to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to the timing
of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation or
aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you understand and
agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses associated
with your One-time RSU Award, including without limitation, such brokerage costs or other fees or
expenses in connection with the sale of Shares delivered to you hereunder.

(f) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS
Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any

-5- 

supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization or any agency, or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment, your continued holding of your Outstanding One-time RSUs would result in
an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9(g)(i), you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding One-time RSUs;

then, in the case of Paragraph 9(g)(i) above only, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall
be waived with respect to any One-time RSUs you then hold that had not yet become Vested (as a
result of which such One-time RSUs shall become Vested) and, in the case of Paragraphs 9(g)(i) and
9(g)(ii) above, at the sole discretion of the Firm, you shall receive either a lump sum cash
payment in respect of, or delivery of the Shares underlying, your then Outstanding Vested One-time
RSUs, in each case as soon as practicable after the Committee has received satisfactory
documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment.

(h) In addition to and without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of
the Plan, neither the Firm nor any Covered Person shall have any liability to you or any other
person for any action taken or omitted in respect of this or any other Award.

(i) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, the Plan or otherwise, by
accepting your One-time RSUs, you understand and agree that, if you are or become a  senior
executive officer  (as defined in the regulations promulgated under the Emergency Economic
Stabilization Act of 2008 (the Act, together with the regulations, the  EESA )):

(i) No term or condition will apply to your One-time RSUs to the extent that such term or
condition would result in a violation of the Firm s obligations under the U.S. Treasury s TARP
Capital Purchase Program (the  CPP ), as determined by the Firm in its sole discretion;

(ii) The Firm reserves the right to add any terms or conditions to your One-time RSUs as the
Firm deems necessary in its sole discretion to satisfy the Firm s obligations under the CPP;

(iii) You will be required to repay any Shares delivered pursuant to any One-time RSUs, in
accordance with Paragraph 5 and Section 2.6.3 of the Plan, as the Firm deems necessary in its sole
discretion to satisfy the Firm s obligations under the CPP; and

(iv) You agree to waive any claim against the United States or the Firm for any amendments to
your One-time RSUs that the Firm deems necessary in its sole discretion to satisfy its obligations
under the CPP. This waiver includes all claims you may have under the laws of the United States or
any state related to the requirements imposed by the EESA, including without limitation a claim for
any compensation or other payments you would otherwise receive, any challenge to the process by
which the EESA was adopted and any tort or constitutional claim about the effect of the EESA on
your employment relationship.

10.  Right of Offset . Except as provided in Paragraph 15(h), the obligation to deliver
Shares under this Award Agreement is subject to Section 3.4 of the Plan, which provides for the
Firm s right to offset against such obligation any outstanding amounts you owe to the Firm and any
amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement.

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that,
notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan, no such
amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award Agreement
without your consent; and

-6- 

provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its rights to
amend the Award Agreement and the Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4) of the
Plan. For the avoidance of doubt, your acceptance of Paragraph 9(i) constitutes your consent to
any amendments (including amendments which materially adversely affect your rights and obligations)
to your One-time RSUs contemplated under such Paragraph. Any amendment of this Award Agreement
shall be in writing signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons
designated by the Committee.

12.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum . BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING
THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT
TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY.

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations on transferability set forth in Section
3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in violation of
the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may
adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of One-time RSUs may transfer some or all
of their One-time RSUs through a gift for no consideration to any child, stepchild, grandchild,
parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law,
son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, any
person sharing the recipient s household (other than a tenant or employee), a trust in which these
persons have more than 50% of the beneficial interest, and any other entity in which these persons
(or the recipient) own more than 50% of the voting interests.

14.  Governing Law . THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.

15.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan With Section 409A . The provisions of this
Paragraph 15 apply to you only if you are a United States taxpayer.

(a) References in this Award Agreement to  Section 409A  refer to Section 409A of the Code,
including any amendments or successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other
administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or
interpreted through further administrative guidance. This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions
that apply to this Award are intended and shall be construed to comply with Section 409A (including
the requirements applicable to, or the conditions for exemption from treatment as, a  deferral of
compensation  or  deferred compensation  as those terms are defined in the regulations under
Section 409A ( 409A deferred compensation ), whether by reason of short-term deferral treatment or
other exceptions or provisions). The Committee shall have full authority to give effect to this
intent. To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including, without limitation, Sections
1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement shall
govern, and in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 15 and
the other provisions of this Award Agreement, this Paragraph 15 shall govern ;  provided, however, in
the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 15 and Paragraph 9(i),
Paragraph 9(i) shall govern . 

(b) Delivery of Shares shall not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable conditions
or restrictions on delivery of Shares in respect of your One-time RSUs required by this Agreement
(including, without limitation, those specified in Paragraphs 3(b) and (c), 6(b) and (c) (execution
of waiver and

-7- 

release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax liability) and 9 and the
consents and other items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are satisfied, and shall occur by
March 15 of the calendar year in which the Delivery Date occurs unless, in order to permit such
conditions or restrictions to be satisfied, the Committee elects, pursuant to Treasury Regulations
section ( Reg. ) 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted in accordance with Section
409A, to delay delivery of Shares to a later date within the same calendar year or to such later
date as may be permitted under Section 409A, including, without limitation, Regs. 1.409A-2(b)(7)
(in conjunction with Section 3.21.3 of the Plan pertaining to Code Section 162(m)) and 1.409A-3(d).

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3(b)(iii) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to
the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property
that the Firm may deliver in respect of your One-time RSUs shall not have the effect of deferring
delivery or payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the date on
which such delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would lapse, with
respect to the Shares that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a
later date for this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted
under Section 409A, including, without limitation and to the extent applicable, the subsequent
election provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).

(d) Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 3(c), the delivery of Shares referred
to therein shall be made after the date of death and during the calendar year that includes the
date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A).

(e) The delivery of Shares referred to in Paragraph 7 shall occur on the earlier of (i) the
Delivery Date or (ii) within the calendar year in which the termination of Employment occurs;
provided, however, that, if you are a  specified employee  (as defined by the Firm in accordance
with Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code), delivery shall occur on the earlier of the Delivery
Date or (to the extent required to avoid the imposition of additional tax under Section 409A) the
date that is six months after your termination of Employment (or, if the latter date is not during
a Window Period, the first trading day of the next Window Period). For purposes of Paragraph 7,
references in this Award Agreement to termination of Employment mean separation from service (as
defined by the Firm in accordance with Section 409A).

(f) Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 8 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the contrary,
the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding One-time RSUs shall be paid
to you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any corresponding regular
cash dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for which occurs on or after
the Date of Grant. The payment shall be in an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such
regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the Shares underlying such
Outstanding One-time RSUs.

(g) The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 9(g) shall be the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) within the calendar year in which the Committee receives satisfactory
documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such delivery or payment shall
be made only at such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as reasonably determined by the
Firm, would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you under Section 409A.

(h) Paragraph 10 and Section 3.4 of the Plan shall not apply to Awards that are 409A deferred
compensation.

(i) Delivery of Shares in respect of any Award may be made, if and to the extent elected by
the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, in
the case of any Award that constitutes 409A deferred compensation, only to the extent that the
later delivery is permitted under Section 409A).

-8- 

16.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:

Name: 

Title: 

</EX-10.63>

<EX-10.64>
 21
 y74032exv10w64.htm
 EX-10.64: FORM OF INCENTIVE ONE-TIME RSU AWARD AGREEMENT

EX-10.64 

Exhibit 10.64 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
____ INCENTIVE ONE-TIME RSU AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of this special    incentive
one-time award (this  Award ) of restricted stock units ( One-time RSUs ) granted to you under The
Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.   In light of the U.S. tax rules relating to deferred
compensation in Section 409A of the Code, to the extent that you are a United States taxpayer,
certain provisions of this Award Agreement and of the Plan shall apply only as provided in
Paragraph 15   . 

2.  Award . The number of One-time RSUs subject to this Award is set forth in the Award
Statement delivered to you. An RSU is an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver (or cause to be
delivered) to you, subject to the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, a share of Common
Stock (a  Share ) on the Delivery Date or as otherwise provided herein. Until such delivery, you
have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc.
  This Award is conditioned on your executing the related signature card and returning it to the
address designated on the signature card and/or by the method designated on the signature card by
the date specified, and is subject to all terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan and this
Award Agreement, including, without limitation, the arbitration and choice of forum provisions set
forth in Paragraph 12  .   By executing the related signature card (which, among other
things, opens the custody account referred to in paragraph 3(   b   ) if you have not done so
already), you will have confirmed your acceptance of all of the terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement.  

3.  Vesting and Delivery .

(a)  Vesting . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 6, 7, 9,
10 and 15, on each Vesting Date you shall become Vested in the number or percentage of One-time
RSUs specified next to such Vesting Date on the Award Statement (which may be rounded to avoid
fractional Shares). While continued active Employment is not required in order to receive delivery
of the Shares underlying your Outstanding One-time RSUs that are or become Vested, all other terms
and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply to such Vested One-time RSUs, and
failure to meet such terms and conditions may result in the termination of this Award (as a result
of which no Shares underlying such Vested One-time RSUs would be delivered).

(b)  Delivery .

(i) The Delivery Dates with respect to this Award shall be the dates specified (next to the
number or percentage of One-time RSUs) as such on your Award Statement if such date is during a
Window Period or, if such date is not during a Window Period, the first Trading Day of the first
Window Period beginning after such date. For this purpose, a  Trading Day  is a day on which
Shares trade regular way on the New York Stock Exchange.

(ii) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10 and 15, in
accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than thirty (30)
Business Days) after each date specified as a Delivery Date (or any other date delivery of Shares
is called for hereunder), Shares underlying the number or percentage of your then Outstanding
One-time RSUs with respect to which such Delivery Date (or other date) has occurred (which number
of Shares may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) shall be delivered by book entry credit to
your Custody Account or to a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or become considered by GS Inc. to be one of its  covered
employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then you shall be subject to Section
3.21.3 of the Plan, as a result of which delivery of your Shares may be delayed.

(iii) In accordance with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the discretion of the Committee, in
lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable in respect of all or any portion of
your One-time RSUs, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other Awards or other property,
and all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of Shares shall include such deliveries of
cash, other securities, other Awards or other property.

(iv) In the discretion of the Committee, delivery of Shares may be made initially into an
escrow account meeting such terms and conditions as are determined by the Firm and may be held in
that escrow account until such time as the Committee has received such documentation as it may have
requested or until the Committee has determined that any other conditions or restrictions on
delivery of Shares required by this Award Agreement have been satisfied. By accepting your
One-time RSUs, you have agreed on behalf of yourself (and your estate or other permitted
beneficiary) that the Firm may establish and maintain an escrow account on such terms and
conditions (which may include, without limitation, your executing any documents related to, and
your paying for any costs associated with, such escrow account) as the Firm may deem necessary or
appropriate. Any such escrow arrangement shall, unless otherwise determined by the Firm, provide
that (A) the escrow agent shall have the exclusive authority to vote such Shares while held in
escrow and (B) dividends paid on such Shares held in escrow may be accumulated and shall be paid as
determined by the Firm in its discretion.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement (except
Paragraphs 9(i) and 15), if you die prior to the Delivery Date, the Shares underlying your then
Outstanding One-time RSUs shall be delivered to the representative of your estate as soon as
practicable after the date of death and after such documentation as may be requested by the
Committee is provided to the Committee. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you
may be permitted to specifically bequeath some or all of your Outstanding One-time RSUs under your
will to an organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other
similar charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

4.  Termination of One-time RSUs and Non-Delivery of Shares .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 6,
7, and 9(g), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm, your rights in respect of your One-time RSUs that were Outstanding but that
had not yet become Vested immediately prior to your termination of Employment immediately shall
terminate, such One-time RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered in
respect thereof.

(b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 6 and 7,
your rights in respect of all of your Outstanding One-time RSUs (whether or not Vested)
immediately shall terminate, such One-time RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall
be delivered in respect thereof if:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

-2- 

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(iii) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any
Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or
are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected
Firm Personnel;

(iv) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

(v) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, any offer letter, employment
agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the Firm
are a party;

(vi) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for delivery of Shares in respect of this Award Agreement are invalid; or

(vii) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Outstanding One-time RSUs.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (i) any Firm employee or
consultant (A) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (B) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (ii) any Managing Director of the Firm. For the avoidance
of doubt, failure to pay or reimburse the Firm, upon demand, for any amount you owe to the Firm
shall constitute (i) failure to meet an obligation you have under an agreement referred to in
Paragraph 4(b)(v) regardless of whether such obligation arises under a written agreement, and/or
(ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting Cause referred to in Paragraph 4(b)(ii)).

5.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which requires Award
recipients to repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that all
terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied) shall
apply to this Award.

6.  Extended Absence and Retirement.  

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraph
6(b), in the event of the termination of your Employment (determined as described in Section 1.2.19
of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement (as defined below), the condition set
forth in

-3- 

Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with respect to any One-time RSUs that were Outstanding but
that had not yet become Vested immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of
which such One-time RSUs shall become Vested), but all other terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement shall continue to apply. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan or
otherwise,  Retirement  means termination of your Employment (other than for Cause) on or after the
Date of Grant at a time when (i) the sum of your age plus years of service with the Firm (as
determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) equals or exceeds 60 and (ii) you have
completed at least ten (10) years of service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its
sole discretion).

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b), your rights in respect of your
Outstanding One-time RSUs that become Vested in accordance with Paragraph 6(a) immediately shall
terminate, such Outstanding One-time RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall be
delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the original Vesting Date with respect to such One-time
RSUs, you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation
interest in, any Competitive Enterprise, or (ii) associate in any capacity (including, but not
limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor)
with any Competitive Enterprise. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise determined by the
Committee in its discretion, this Paragraph 6(b) will not apply if your termination of Employment
by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement is characterized by the Firm as  involuntary  or by
 mutual agreement  other than for Cause and if you execute such a general waiver and release of
claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability, both as may be prescribed by the Firm
or its designee. No termination of Employment initiated by you, including any termination claimed
to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination for good reason, will constitute an
 involuntary  termination of Employment or a termination of Employment by  mutual agreement. 

7.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement (except Paragraphs 9(i) and 15), in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within
18 months thereafter the Firm terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your
Employment for Good Reason, all Shares underlying your then Outstanding One-time RSUs, whether or
not Vested, shall be delivered.

8.  Dividend Equivalent Rights . Each One-time RSU shall include a Dividend Equivalent
Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding One-time RSUs, at or after the time
of distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date
for which occurs on or after the Date of Grant, you shall be entitled to receive an amount (less
applicable withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect
of the Share underlying such Outstanding One-time RSU. Payment in respect of a Dividend Equivalent
Right shall be made only with respect to One-time RSUs that are Outstanding on the relevant record
date. Each Dividend Equivalent Right shall be subject to the provisions of Section 2.8.2 of the
Plan.

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or delivery of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such
amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from
the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to
you pursuant to this Award. In addition, if you are an individual with separate employment
contracts (at any time during and/or after the Firm s    fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole
discretion, require you to provide for a reserve in an amount the Firm determines is advisable or
necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or potential tax consequences related to your
separate employment contracts by requiring you to choose between remitting such amount (i) in cash
(or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm s
executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award (or any other

-4- 

Outstanding Awards
under the Plan). In no event, however, shall any choice you may have under the preceding two
sentences determine, or give you any discretion to affect, the timing of the delivery of Shares or
the timing of payment of tax obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the One-time RSUs are
conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly
situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of your One-time RSUs are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning
trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards
(including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS
Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your One-time
RSUs in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with respect
to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to the timing
of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation or
aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you understand and
agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses associated
with your One-time RSU Award, including without limitation, such brokerage costs or other fees or
expenses in connection with the sale of Shares delivered to you hereunder.

(f) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS
Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization or any agency, or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment, your continued holding of your Outstanding One-time RSUs would result in
an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9(g)(i), you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding One-time RSUs;

then, in the case of Paragraph 9(g)(i) above only, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall
be waived with respect to any One-time RSUs you then hold that had not yet become Vested (as a
result of which such One-time RSUs shall become Vested) and, in the case of Paragraphs 9(g)(i) and
9(g)(ii) above, at the sole discretion of the Firm, you shall receive either a lump sum cash
payment in respect of, or delivery of the Shares

-5- 

underlying, your then Outstanding Vested One-time
RSUs, in each case as soon as practicable after the Committee has received satisfactory
documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment.

(h) In addition to and without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of
the Plan, neither the Firm nor any Covered Person shall have any liability to you or any other
person for any action taken or omitted in respect of this or any other Award.

(i) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, the Plan or otherwise, by
accepting your One-time RSUs, you understand and agree that, if you are or become a  senior
executive officer  (as defined in the regulations promulgated under the Emergency Economic
Stabilization Act of 2008 (the Act, together with the regulations, the  EESA )):

(i) No term or condition will apply to your One-time RSUs to the extent that such term or
condition would result in a violation of the Firm s obligations under the U.S. Treasury s TARP
Capital Purchase Program (the  CPP ), as determined by the Firm in its sole discretion;

(ii) The Firm reserves the right to add any terms or conditions to your One-time RSUs as the
Firm deems necessary in its sole discretion to satisfy the Firm s obligations under the CPP;

(iii) You will be required to repay any Shares delivered pursuant to any One-time RSUs, in
accordance with Paragraph 5 and Section 2.6.3 of the Plan, as the Firm deems necessary in its sole
discretion to satisfy the Firm s obligations under the CPP; and

(iv) You agree to waive any claim against the United States or the Firm for any amendments to
your One-time RSUs that the Firm deems necessary in its sole discretion to satisfy its obligations
under the CPP. This waiver includes all claims you may have under the laws of the United States or
any state related to the requirements imposed by the EESA, including without limitation a claim for
any compensation or other payments you would otherwise receive, any challenge to the process by
which the EESA was adopted and any tort or constitutional claim about the effect of the EESA on
your employment relationship.

10.  Right of Offset . Except as provided in Paragraph 15(h), the obligation to deliver
Shares under this Award Agreement is subject to Section 3.4 of the Plan, which provides for the
Firm s right to offset against such obligation any outstanding amounts you owe to the Firm and any
amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement.

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend the Award Agreement and the Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4)
of the Plan. For the avoidance of doubt, your acceptance of Paragraph 9(i) constitutes your
consent to any amendments (including amendments which materially adversely affect your rights and
obligations) to your One-time RSUs contemplated under such Paragraph. Any amendment of this Award
Agreement shall be in writing signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or
persons designated by the Committee.

12.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum . BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING
THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY

-6- 

ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT
TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY.

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations on transferability set forth in Section
3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in violation of
the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may
adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of One-time RSUs may transfer some or all
of their One-time RSUs through a gift for no consideration to any child, stepchild, grandchild,
parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law,
son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, any
person sharing the recipient s household (other than a tenant or employee), a trust in which these
persons have more than 50% of the beneficial interest, and any other entity in which these persons
(or the recipient) own more than 50% of the voting interests.

14.  Governing Law . THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.

15.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan With Section 409A . The provisions of this
Paragraph 15 apply to you only if you are a United States taxpayer.

(a) References in this Award Agreement to  Section 409A  refer to Section 409A of the Code,
including any amendments or successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other
administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or
interpreted through further administrative guidance. This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions
that apply to this Award are intended and shall be construed to comply with Section 409A (including
the requirements applicable to, or the conditions for exemption from treatment as, a  deferral of
compensation  or  deferred compensation  as those terms are defined in the regulations under
Section 409A ( 409A deferred compensation ), whether by reason of short-term deferral treatment or
other exceptions or provisions). The Committee shall have full authority to give effect to this
intent. To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including, without limitation, Sections
1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement shall
govern, and in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 15 and
the other provisions of this Award Agreement, this Paragraph 15 shall govern ;  provided, however, in
the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 15 and Paragraph 9(i),
Paragraph 9(i) shall govern . 

(b) Delivery of Shares shall not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable conditions
or restrictions on delivery of Shares in respect of your One-time RSUs required by this Agreement
(including, without limitation, those specified in Paragraphs 3(b) and (c), 6(b) (execution of
waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax liability) and 9 and the consents
and other items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are satisfied, and shall occur by March 15 of
the calendar year in which the Delivery Date occurs unless, in order to permit such conditions or
restrictions to be satisfied, the Committee elects, pursuant to Treasury Regulations section
( Reg. ) 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted in accordance with Section 409A, to
delay delivery of Shares to a later date within the same calendar year or to
such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A, including, without limitation, Regs.
1.409A-2(b)(7) (in conjunction with Section 3.21.3 of the Plan pertaining to Code Section 162(m))
and 1.409A-3(d).

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3(b)(iii) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to
the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property
that the Firm may deliver in respect of your One-time RSUs shall not have the effect of deferring
delivery or payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the date on
which such delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would lapse, with
respect to the Shares that would otherwise

-7- 

have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a
later date for this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted
under Section 409A, including, without limitation and to the extent applicable, the subsequent
election provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).

(d) Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 3(c), the delivery of Shares referred
to therein shall be made after the date of death and during the calendar year that includes the
date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A).

(e) The delivery of Shares referred to in Paragraph 7 shall occur on the earlier of (i) the
Delivery Date or (ii) within the calendar year in which the termination of Employment occurs;
provided, however, that, if you are a  specified employee  (as defined by the Firm in accordance
with Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code), delivery shall occur on the earlier of the Delivery
Date or (to the extent required to avoid the imposition of additional tax under Section 409A) the
date that is six months after your termination of Employment (or, if the latter date is not during
a Window Period, the first trading day of the next Window Period). For purposes of Paragraph 7,
references in this Award Agreement to termination of Employment mean separation from service (as
defined by the Firm in accordance with Section 409A).

(f) Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 8 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the contrary,
the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding One-time RSUs shall be paid
to you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any corresponding regular
cash dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for which occurs on or after
the Date of Grant. The payment shall be in an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such
regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the Shares underlying such
Outstanding One-time RSUs.

(g) The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 9(g) shall be the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) within the calendar year in which the Committee receives satisfactory
documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such delivery or payment shall
be made only at such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as reasonably determined by the
Firm, would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you under Section 409A.

(h) Paragraph 10 and Section 3.4 of the Plan shall not apply to Awards that are 409A deferred
compensation.

(i) Delivery of Shares in respect of any Award may be made, if and to the extent elected by
the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, in
the case of any Award that constitutes 409A deferred compensation, only to the extent that the
later delivery is permitted under Section 409A).

16.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

-8- 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:

Name: 

Title: 

-9- 

</EX-10.64>

<EX-10.65>
 22
 y74032exv10w65.htm
 EX-10.65: FORM OF YEAR-END SUPPLEMENTAL RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (FRANCE)

EX-10.65 

Exhibit 10.65 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
____ YEAR-END SUPPLEMENTAL RSU AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the    Year-End award (this
 Award ) of Supplemental RSUs ( Year-End Supplemental RSUs ) granted to you under The Goldman Sachs
Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.   In light of the U.S. tax rules relating to deferred
compensation in Section 409A of the Code, to the extent that you are a United States taxpayer,
certain provisions of this Award Agreement and of the Plan shall apply only as provided in
Paragraph 15   . 

2.  Award . The number of Year-End Supplemental RSUs subject to this Award is set forth
(as     Year-End Supplemental RSUs ) in the
Award Statement delivered to you. An RSU is an
unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver (or cause to be delivered) to you, subject to the terms
and conditions of this Award Agreement, a share of Common Stock (a  Share ) on the Delivery Date or
as otherwise provided herein. Until such delivery, you have only the rights of a general unsecured
creditor, and no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc.   This Award is conditioned on your executing
the related signature card and returning it to the address designated on the signature card and/or
by the method designated on the signature card by the date specified, and is subject to all terms,
conditions and provisions of the Plan and this Award Agreement, including, without limitation, the
arbitration and choice of forum provisions set forth in Paragraph 12  .   By executing the
related signature card (which, among other things, opens the custody account referred to in
paragraph 3(   b   ) if you have not done so already), you will have confirmed your acceptance
of all of the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement.  

3.  Vesting and Delivery .

(a)  Vesting . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 6, 7, 9,
10 and 15, on each Vesting Date you shall become Vested in the number or percentage of Year-End
Supplemental RSUs specified next to such Vesting Date on the Award Statement (which may be rounded
to avoid fractional Shares). While continued active Employment is not required in order to receive
delivery of the Shares underlying your Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs that are or become
Vested, all other terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply to such
Vested Year-End Supplemental RSUs, and failure to meet such terms and conditions may result in the
termination of this Award (as a result of which no Shares underlying such Vested Year-End
Supplemental RSUs would be delivered).

(b)  Delivery .

(i) The Delivery Dates with respect to this Award shall be the dates specified (next to the
number or percentage of Year-End Supplemental RSUs) as such on your Award Statement if such date is
during a Window Period or, if such date is not during a Window Period, the first Trading Day of

the first Window Period beginning after that date. For this purpose, a  Trading Day  is a day
on which Shares trade regular way on the New York Stock Exchange.

(ii) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10 and
15, in accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than
thirty (30) Business Days) after each date specified as a Delivery Date (or any other date delivery
of Shares is called for hereunder), Shares underlying the number or percentage of your then
Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs with respect to which such Delivery Date (or other date) has
occurred (which number of Shares may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) shall be delivered by
book entry credit to your Custody Account or to a brokerage account, as approved or required by the
Firm. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or become considered by GS Inc. to be one of its
 covered employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then you shall be subject to
Section 3.21.3 of the Plan, as a result of which delivery of your Shares may be delayed.

(iii) In accordance with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the discretion of the
Committee, in lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable in respect of all or
any portion of your Year-End Supplemental RSUs, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other
Awards or other property, and all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of Shares shall
include such deliveries of cash, other securities, other Awards or other property.

(iv) In the discretion of the Committee, delivery of Shares may be made initially into an
escrow account meeting such terms and conditions as are determined by the Firm and may be held in
that escrow account until such time as the Committee has received such documentation as it may have
requested or until the Committee has determined that any other conditions or restrictions on
delivery of Shares required by this Award Agreement have been satisfied. By accepting your
Year-End Supplemental RSUs, you have agreed on behalf of yourself (and your estate or other
permitted beneficiary) that the Firm may establish and maintain an escrow account on such terms and
conditions (which may include, without limitation, your executing any documents related to, and
your paying for any costs associated with, such escrow account) as the Firm may deem necessary or
appropriate. Any such escrow arrangement shall, unless otherwise determined by the Firm, provide
that (A) the escrow agent shall have the exclusive authority to vote such Shares while held in
escrow and (B) dividends paid on such Shares held in escrow may be accumulated and shall be paid as
determined by the Firm in its discretion.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement (except
Paragraphs 9(i) and 15), if you die prior to the Delivery Date, the Shares underlying your then
Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs shall be delivered to the representative of your estate as
soon as practicable after the date of death and after such documentation as may be requested by the
Committee is provided to the Committee. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you
may be permitted to specifically bequeath some or all of your Outstanding Year-End Supplemental
RSUs under your will to an organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or
such other similar charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

4.  Termination of Year-End Supplemental RSUs and Non-Delivery of Shares .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 6,
7, and 9(g), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm, your rights in respect of your Year-End Supplemental RSUs that were
Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested immediately prior to your termination of Employment

- 2 - 

immediately shall terminate, such Year-End Supplemental RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and
no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof.

(b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 6 and 7,
your rights in respect of all of your Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs (whether or not
Vested) immediately shall terminate, such Year-End Supplemental RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding
and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof if:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(iii) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any
Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or
are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected
Firm Personnel;

(iv) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

(v) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party;

(vi) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for delivery of Shares in respect of this Award Agreement are invalid; or

(vii) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (A) any Firm employee or
consultant (1) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (2) who at any time
during the year

- 3 - 

immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the same division in
which you worked; and (B) any Managing Director of the Firm.

(c) For the avoidance of doubt, failure to pay or reimburse the Firm, upon demand, for any
amount you owe to the Firm shall constitute (i) failure to meet an obligation you have under an
agreement referred to in Paragraph 4(b)(v), regardless of whether such obligation arises under a
written agreement, and/or (ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting Cause referred to
in Paragraph 4(b)(ii)).

5.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which requires Award
recipients to repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that all
terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied) shall
apply to this Award.

6.  Extended Absence, Retirement, Downsizing and Approved Termination for Program Analysts.

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraph
6(b), in the event of the termination of your Employment (determined as described in Section 1.2.19
of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement (as defined below), the condition set
forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with respect to any Year-End Supplemental RSUs that were
Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested immediately prior to such termination of Employment
(as a result of which such Year-End Supplemental RSUs shall become Vested), but all other terms and
conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in the Plan or otherwise,  Retirement  means termination of your Employment (other than
for Cause) on or after the Date of Grant at a time when (i) the sum of your age plus years of
service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) equals or exceeds 60,
(ii) you have completed at least ten (10) years of service with the Firm (as determined by the
Committee in its sole discretion), and (iii) you have completed one year of service with the Firm
following the Date of Grant (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion).

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b), your rights in respect of your
Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs that become Vested in accordance with Paragraph 6(a)
immediately shall terminate, such Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs shall cease to be
Outstanding, and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the original Vesting
Date with respect to such Year-End Supplemental RSUs, you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater
equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in, any Competitive Enterprise, or (ii)
associate in any capacity (including, but not limited to, association as an officer, employee,
partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any Competitive Enterprise. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, unless otherwise determined by the Committee in its discretion, this Paragraph 6(b)
will not apply if your termination of Employment by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement is
characterized by the Firm as  involuntary  or by  mutual agreement  other than for Cause and if you
execute such a general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax
liability, both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee. No termination of Employment
initiated by you, including any termination claimed to be a  constructive termination  or the like
or a termination for good reason, will constitute an  involuntary  termination of Employment or a
termination of Employment by  mutual agreement. 

(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement and subject to your executing
such general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability,
both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee, if your Employment is terminated without
Cause solely by reason of a  downsizing,  the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived
with respect to your Year-End Supplemental RSUs that were Outstanding but that had not yet become
Vested immediately prior to such

- 4 - 

termination of Employment (as a result of which such Year-End Supplemental RSUs shall become
Vested), but all other conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply. Whether or not
your Employment is terminated solely by reason of a  downsizing  shall be determined by the Firm in
its sole discretion. No termination of Employment initiated by you, including any termination
claimed to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination for good reason, will be
solely by reason of a  downsizing. 

(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, if you are classified by the
Firm as a  program analyst,  and your Employment is terminated without Cause solely by reason of an
 approved termination  with respect to your participation in the program prior to any Vesting Date
specified on your Award Statement, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with
respect to any Year-End Supplemental RSUs that were Outstanding but had not yet become Vested
immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such Year-End
Supplemental RSUs shall become Vested), but all other conditions of this Award Agreement shall
continue to apply. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, for purposes of this Paragraph
6(d), an  approved termination  shall mean a termination of Employment from the analyst program
where: (i) you complete your analyst program, (ii) you receive a bonus for completing the analyst
program and (iii) you terminate Employment with the Firm immediately after you complete the analyst
program, without any  stay-on  or other agreement or understanding to continue Employment with the
Firm. If you agree to stay with the Firm as an employee after your analyst program ends and then
later terminate Employment, you will not have an  approved termination. 

7.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement (except Paragraphs 9(i) and 15), in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within
18 months thereafter the Firm terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your
Employment for Good Reason, all Shares underlying your then Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs,
whether or not Vested, shall be delivered.

8.  Dividend Equivalent Rights . Each Year-End Supplemental RSU shall include a
Dividend Equivalent Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding Year-End
Supplemental RSUs, at or after the time of distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS
Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for which occurs on or after the Date of Grant, you
shall be entitled to receive an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such regular dividend
payment as would have been made in respect of the Share underlying such Outstanding Year-End
Supplemental RSU. Payment in respect of a Dividend Equivalent Right shall be made only with
respect to Year-End Supplemental RSUs that are Outstanding on the relevant record date. Each
Dividend Equivalent Right shall be subject to the provisions of Section 2.8.2 of the Plan.

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or delivery of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such
amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from
the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award. In addition, if you
are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the Firm s
   fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to provide for a reserve in an
amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or
potential tax consequences related to your separate employment contracts by requiring you to choose
between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in
the form

- 5 - 

of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award (or
any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no event, however, shall any choice you may have
under the preceding two sentences determine, or give you any discretion to affect, the timing of
the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the Year-End
Supplemental RSUs are conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of your Year-End Supplemental RSUs are conditioned on the receipt
to the full satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of
the Plan) that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning
trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards
(including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS
Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your Year-End
Supplemental RSUs in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time
with respect to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating
to the timing of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method,
consolidation or aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you
understand and agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or
expenses associated with your Year-End Supplemental RSU Award, including without limitation, such
brokerage costs or other fees or expenses in connection with the sale of Shares delivered to you
hereunder.

(f) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS
Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization or any agency, or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment, your continued holding of your Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs
would result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9(g)(i), you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs;

- 6 - 

then, in the case of Paragraph 9(g)(i) above only, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall
be waived with respect to any Year-End Supplemental RSUs you then hold that had not yet become
Vested (as a result of which such Year-End Supplemental RSUs shall become Vested) and, in the case
of Paragraphs 9(g)(i) and 9(g)(ii) above, at the sole discretion of the Firm, you shall receive
either a lump sum cash payment in respect of, or delivery of Shares underlying, your then
Outstanding Vested Year-End Supplemental RSUs, in each case as soon as practicable after the
Committee has received satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment.

(h) In addition to and without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of
the Plan, neither the Firm nor any Covered Person shall have any liability to you or any other
person for any action taken or omitted in respect of this or any other Award.

(i) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, the Plan or otherwise, by
accepting your Year-End Supplemental RSUs, you understand and agree that, if you are or become a
 senior executive officer  (as defined in the regulations promulgated under the Emergency Economic
Stabilization Act of 2008 (the Act, together with the regulations, the  EESA )):

(i) No term or condition will apply to your Year-End Supplemental RSUs to the extent that such
term or condition would result in a violation of the Firm s obligations under the U.S. Treasury s
TARP Capital Purchase Program (the  CPP ), as determined by the Firm in its sole discretion;

(ii) The Firm reserves the right to add any terms or conditions to your Year-End Supplemental
RSUs as the Firm deems necessary in its sole discretion to satisfy the Firm s obligations under the
CPP;

(iii) You will be required to repay any Shares delivered pursuant to any Year-End Supplemental
RSUs, in accordance with Paragraph 5 and Section 2.6.3 of the Plan, as the Firm deems necessary in
its sole discretion to satisfy the Firm s obligations under the CPP; and

(iv) You agree to waive any claim against the United States or the Firm for any amendments to
your Year-End Supplemental RSUs that the Firm deems necessary in its sole discretion to satisfy its
obligations under the CPP. This waiver includes all claims you may have under the laws of the
United States or any state related to the requirements imposed by the EESA, including without
limitation a claim for any compensation or other payments you would otherwise receive, any
challenge to the process by which the EESA was adopted and any tort or constitutional claim about
the effect of the EESA on your employment relationship.

10.  Right of Offset.  Except as provided in Paragraph 15(h), the obligation to deliver
Shares under this Award Agreement is subject to Section 3.4 of the Plan, which provides for the
Firm s right to offset against such obligation any outstanding amounts you owe to the Firm and any
amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement.

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend the Award Agreement and the Plan as

- 7 - 

described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4) of the Plan. For the avoidance of doubt, your
acceptance of Paragraph 9(i) constitutes your consent to any amendments (including amendments which
materially adversely affect your rights and obligations) to your Year-End Supplemental RSUs
contemplated under such Paragraph. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing
signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.

12.   Arbitration; Choice of Forum . BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING
THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT
TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY.

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations on transferability set forth in Section
3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in violation of
the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may
adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of Year-End Supplemental RSUs may
transfer some or all of their Year-End Supplemental RSUs through a gift for no consideration to any
child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece, nephew,
mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law,
including adoptive relationships, any person sharing the recipient s household (other than a tenant
or employee), a trust in which these persons have more than 50% of the beneficial interest, and any
other entity in which these persons (or the recipient) own more than 50% of the voting interests.

14.  Governing Law . THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.

15.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan With Section 409A . The provisions of this
Paragraph 15 apply to you only if you are a United States taxpayer.

(a) References in this Award Agreement to  Section 409A  refer to Section 409A of the Code,
including any amendments or successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other
administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or
interpreted through further administrative guidance. This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions
that apply to this Award are intended and shall be construed to comply with Section 409A (including
the requirements applicable to, or the conditions for exemption from treatment as, a  deferral of
compensation  or  deferred compensation  as those terms are defined in the regulations under
Section 409A ( 409A deferred compensation ), whether by reason of short-term deferral treatment or
other exceptions or provisions). The Committee shall have full authority to give effect to this
intent. To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including, without limitation, Sections
1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement shall
govern, and in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 15 and
the other provisions of this Award Agreement, this Paragraph 15 shall govern; provided, however, in
the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 15 and Paragraph 9(i),
Paragraph 9(i) shall govern.

- 8 - 

(b) Delivery of Shares shall not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable conditions
or restrictions on delivery of Shares in respect of your Year-End Supplemental RSUs required by
this Agreement (including, without limitation, those specified in Paragraphs 3(b) and (c), 6(b) and
(c) (execution of waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax liability) and 9
and the consents and other items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are satisfied, and shall
occur by March 15 of the calendar year in which the Delivery Date occurs unless, in order to permit
such conditions or restrictions to be satisfied, the Committee elects, pursuant to Treasury
Regulations section ( Reg. ) 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted in accordance
with Section 409A, to delay delivery of Shares to a later date within the same calendar year or to
such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A, including, without limitation, Regs.
1.409A-2(b)(7) (in conjunction with Section 3.21.3 of the Plan pertaining to Code Section 162(m))
and 1.409A-3(d).

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3(b)(iii) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to
the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property
that the Firm may deliver in respect of your Year-End Supplemental RSUs shall not have the effect
of deferring delivery or payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the
date on which such delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would
lapse, with respect to the Shares that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee
elects a later date for this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be
permitted under Section 409A, including, without limitation and to the extent applicable, the
subsequent election provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).

(d) Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 3(c), the delivery of Shares referred
to therein shall be made after the date of death and during the calendar year that includes the
date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A).

(e) The delivery of Shares referred to in Paragraph 7 shall occur on the earlier of (i) the
Delivery Date or (ii) within the calendar year in which the termination of Employment occurs;
provided, however, that, if you are a  specified employee  (as defined by the Firm in accordance
with Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code), delivery shall occur on the earlier of the Delivery
Date or (to the extent required to avoid the imposition of additional tax under Section 409A) the
date that is six months after your termination of Employment (or, if the latter date is not during
a Window Period, the first trading day of the next Window Period). For purposes of Paragraph 7,
references in this Award Agreement to termination of Employment mean separation from service (as
defined by the Firm in accordance with Section 409A).

(f) Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 8 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the contrary,
the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs
shall be paid to you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any
corresponding regular cash dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for
which occurs on or after the Date of Grant. The payment shall be in an amount (less applicable
withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the
Shares underlying such Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs.

(g) The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 9(g) shall be the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) within the calendar year in which the Committee receives satisfactory
documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such delivery or payment shall
be made only at such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as reasonably determined by the
Firm, would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you under Section 409A.

- 9 - 

(h) Paragraph 10 and Section 3.4 of the Plan shall not apply to Awards that are 409A deferred
compensation.

(i) Delivery of Shares in respect of any Award may be made, if and to the extent elected by
the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, in
the case of any Award that constitutes 409A deferred compensation, only to the extent that the
later delivery is permitted under Section 409A).

16.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:

Name: 

Title: 

- 10 - 

</EX-10.65>

<EX-10.66>
 23
 y74032exv10w66.htm
 EX-10.66: FORM OF SIGNATURE CARD FOR EQUITY AWARDS (ASIA EX CHINA)

EX-10.66 

Exhibit 10.66 

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.  
 Signature Card For ____ Year-End Awards (Asia) and the BNY Mellon Custody Account   
 and Consent to Receive Electronic Delivery  

IMPORTANT: PLEASE REVIEW, EXECUTE AND RETURN THIS FORM TO: EQUITY COMPENSATION 
(DIVISION OF HCM), 30 HUDSON STREET, 35TH FLOOR, JERSEY CITY, NJ 07302. 

YOU MUST PROPERLY EXECUTE THIS FORM TO ACKNOWLEDGE ACCEPTANCE OF THE TERMS AND  CONDITIONS OF
YOUR AWARD(S) AND RELATED MATTERS. 

1. I have received and agree to be bound by The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock
Incentive Plan (the  SIP ) and the Award Agreement(s) applicable to me in connection with the    
Year-End Award(s) (the  Award(s) ) that I have been granted by the Firm (as defined below). I
confirm that I have accepted the Award(s) subject to the terms and conditions contained in the SIP
and the Award Agreement(s), including but not limited to, the requirement that disputes relating to
the Award(s) and the Award Agreement(s) be decided through arbitration in New York City and be
governed by New York law.

As a condition of this grant, I understand that the Award(s) (as well as any other award that the
Firm may grant to me under the SIP) is/are subject to other governing law provisions (as outlined
in this signature card, in the current or otherwise then current Award Summary (as defined below)
or otherwise as may be required under applicable law) and, as a condition to receiving such awards,
I agree to be bound thereby. I also understand that the Firm may grant to me other awards under the
SIP that also may contain (among other terms and conditions) arbitration and other governing law
provisions and, as a condition to receiving such awards, I agree to be bound thereby. As a
condition of this grant, I agree to provide upon request an appropriate certification regarding my
U.S. tax status on Form W-8BEN, Form W-9, or other appropriate form, and I understand that failure
to supply a required form may result in the imposition of backup withholding on certain payments I
receive pursuant to this grant.

Further, as a condition of this grant, if I am a person who has worked in the  United
Kingdom  at any time during the earnings period relating to any award under the SIP, as
determined by the Firm, when requested and as directed by the Firm, I will agree to a Joint
Election under s431 ITEPA 2003 of the laws of the United Kingdom for full or partial disapplication
of Chapter 2 Income Tax (Earnings and Pension) Act 2003 under the laws of the United Kingdom and
will sign and return such election in respect of all future deliveries of shares underlying the
Award(s) and any previous grants made to me under the SIP and understand that the Firm intends to
meet its delivery obligations in shares with respect to my Award(s), except as may be prohibited by
law or described in the accompanying Award Agreement or supplementary materials.

If I have worked in  Switzerland  at any time during the earnings period relating to the
Award(s) granted to me as determined by the Firm, (i) I acknowledge that my Award(s) are subject to
tax in accordance with the rulings and method of calculation of taxable values to be agreed by the
Firm with the Federal and/or Zurich/Geneva cantonal/communal tax authorities or as otherwise
directed by the Firm, and (ii) I hereby agree to be bound by any rulings agreed by the Firm in
respect of any Award(s), which is expected to result in taxation at the time of delivery of shares
(or cash or other property in lieu thereof), and (iii) I undertake to declare and make a full and
accurate income tax declaration in respect of my Award(s) in accordance with the above ruling or as
directed by the Firm.

I understand and acknowledge that any transfer provisions (including, where applicable, escrow and
other similar provisions, but specifically excluding any transfer restrictions imposed on any
Award(s) in the Award Agreement(s) or the SIP) in the SIP or related documents will not apply to me
(i) to the extent that the applicability of those provisions would affect the availability of
relevant exemptions or tax favorable treatment, or (ii) otherwise in circumstances determined by
the Firm in its sole discretion.

2. I have read and understand the Firm s  Notice Periods for Recipients of Year-End Equity-Based
Awards  (the  Notice Policy ), pursuant to which I am required to provide certain specified advance
notice of my intent to leave employment with the Firm. I understand that in executing this form, I
will be agreeing to provide my employing entity with advance notice of my intention to leave
employment with the Firm as follows:

In the Americas, Japan and Asia Ex-Japan (excluding India): 60 days in advance of my
termination date 

In Europe, the Middle East, Africa and India: 90 days in advance of my termination date 

and that, where applicable (see the provisions in the Award Summary), the provisions of the Notice
Policy constitute a permanent change to my terms and conditions of employment. I agree to this
change in consideration of my continued employment with the Firm and my acceptance of the Award(s),
and I agree to be bound by the Notice Policy as in effect from time-to-time.

I also understand that the terms and conditions of my employment shall be permanently changed so
that, in the event that I resign from the Firm, the Firm may either:

Unilaterally waive or reduce the notice period otherwise applicable to my employment, or 

Take such other action as shall have that effect. 

I acknowledge that the Firm retains its right to bring forward the end of the notice period to such
earlier date, and that I will not be entitled to any salary, wages, or benefits after such earlier
date. In addition, I understand that I will not receive pay in lieu for any period of notice that
has been waived or reduced.

This agreement concerning my notice period is being made for and on behalf of my Goldman Sachs
employing entity, and implementation of the Notice Policy does not create an employment
relationship between me and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.

I understand that unless the notice period is waived by agreement or unilaterally as set out above,
or I have exercised a statutory right to make a payment in lieu of my notice period, I will be paid
my base salary and will continue to receive all mandatory benefits during the notice period. I
understand that during my notice period I may (subject to any local laws to the contrary) be
required to remain away from the Firm s offices, and/or be removed from any assigned duties or
assigned to other suitable duties during my notice period.

I understand that if I fail to give the full amount of notice as set out above, or to comply in any
respect with the Notice Policy, I will have failed to meet an obligation I have under an agreement
with the Firm, as a result of which the Firm may have certain rights and I may be subject to
certain legal and equitable rights and remedies, including, without limitation, the forfeiture of
the Award(s) and any other awards granted to me (whether before or after the Award(s)) under the
SIP. The forfeiture of such Award(s) will also apply where I fail to give the full amount of
notice by exercising any right I may have under applicable legislation to make a payment in lieu of
such notice. I also understand that, if I fail to comply with the Notice Policy, the Firm may be
entitled to an injunction from a court restraining me from violating it.

I understand that, for employees of Archon Group, L.P., the Notice Policy applies only to Senior
Executives.

3. I have read and understand the Firm s hedging and pledging policies (including, without
limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS Shares, Equity Awards
and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and agree to be bound by them (with respect to
the Award(s) and any prior awards under the SIP), both during and following my employment with the
Firm.

4. If a custody account is required, I request that The Bank of New
York Mellon ( BNY Mellon ) (successor in interest to Mellon Bank, N.A.)  open a custody account for
me as described in the enclosed Custody Agreement among BNY Mellon (as successor in interest to
Mellon Bank N.A.), The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., and myself. I have received and agree to be bound
by the Custody Agreement (or any other such custody agreement previously entered into by me or on
my behalf), including the applicable restrictions on transfers, pledges and withdrawals of Common
Stock, the provisions permitting the Firm to monitor my custody account, and the limitations on the
liability of BNY Mellon and the Firm. I also agree to open an account with any other custodian or
broker selected by the Firm, if the Firm, in its sole discretion, requires me to open an account
with such custodian or broker as a condition to delivery of shares (or cash or other property)
underlying the Award(s).

5. If the Firm advanced or loaned me funds to pay certain taxes (including income taxes and Social
Security, or similar contributions) in connection with the Award(s) (or does so in the future), and
if I have not signed a separate loan agreement governing repayment, I authorize the Firm to
withhold from my compensation any amounts required to reimburse it for any such advance or loan to
the extent permitted by applicable law.

I understand and agree that, if I leave the Firm, I am required immediately to repay any
outstanding amount. I further understand and agree that the Firm has
 the right to offset, to the extent permitted by the Award Agreement and applicable law (including
Section 409A of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which limits the Firm s ability
to offset in the case of United States taxpayers under certain circumstances), any outstanding
amounts that I then

Year End
(Asia)

-1- 

owe the Firm against its delivery obligations under the Award(s) or against any
other amounts the Firm then owes me. I understand that the delivery of shares pursuant to the
Award(s) is conditioned on my satisfaction of any applicable taxes or social security contributions
(collectively referred to as  tax  or  taxes  for purposes of the SIP and all related documents) in
accordance with the SIP. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Firm, in its sole
discretion, may require me to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any Federal, State,
local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on me or the Firm in connection with the grant,
vesting or delivery of the Award(s) by requiring me to choose between remitting such amount (i) in
cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm s
executing a sale of shares delivered to me pursuant to the Award(s). However, in no event shall any
such choice or the choice specified in paragraph 6, below, determine, or give me any discretion to
affect, the timing of the delivery of shares or payment of tax obligations. I understand and agree
that the Firm may reduce any year-end cash bonus that I may receive by an amount equal to the
estimated Indian Fringe Benefit Tax applicable to any award (whether or not vested), as determined
by the Firm in its sole discretion.

6. If I am an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the
Firm s    fiscal year), I acknowledge and agree that the Firm may, in its sole discretion,
require (to the extent permitted by applicable law) that I provide for a reserve in an amount the
Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or potential
tax consequences related to my separate employment contracts by requiring me to choose between
remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deductions or otherwise) or (ii) in the form
of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of shares delivered to me pursuant to the Award(s) (or
any other of my awards outstanding under the SIP).

7. In connection with any Award Agreement or other interest I may receive in the SIP or any shares
of Common Stock of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. that I may receive in connection with the Award(s)
or any award I have previously received or may receive, or in connection with any amendment or
variation thereof or any documents listed in paragraph 8, I hereby consent to (a) the acceptance by
me of the Award(s) electronically, (b) the giving of instructions in electronic form whether by me
or the Firm, and (c) the receipt in electronic form at my email address maintained at Goldman Sachs
or via Goldman Sachs  intranet site (or, if I am no longer employed by the Firm, at such other
email address as I may specify, or via such other electronic means as the Firm and I may agree) all
notices and information that the Firm is required by law to send to me in connection therewith
including, without limitation, any document (or part thereof) constituting part of a prospectus
covering securities that have been registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, the
information contained in any such document and any information required to be delivered to me under
Rule 428 of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, including, for example, the annual report to security
holders or the annual report on Form 10-K of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. for its latest fiscal
year, and that all prior elections that I may have made relating to the delivery of any such
document in physical form are hereby revoked and superseded. I agree to check Goldman Sachs 
intranet site (or, if I am no longer employed by the Firm, such other electronic site as the Firm
and I may agree) periodically as I deem appropriate for any new notices or information concerning
the SIP. I understand that I am not required to consent to the receipt of such documents in
electronic form in order to receive the Award(s) and that I may decline to receive such documents
in electronic form by contacting Equity Compensation (division of HCM), 30 Hudson Street, 35th
Floor, Jersey City, NJ 07302, telephone (212) 357-1444, which will provide me with hard copies of
such documents upon request. I also understand that this consent is voluntary and may be revoked at
any time on three business days  written notice.

8. I hereby acknowledge that I have received in electronic form in accordance with my consent in
paragraph 7 the following documents:

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan; 

Summary of The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan; 

Custody Agreement with BNY Mellon; 

The    Annual Report for The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.; 

The annual report on Form 10-K for The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. for the fiscal year
ended    , filed with the Securities Exchange Commission on     

The Award Agreement(s); and 

Summaries of the Award(s) ( Award Summary ). 

9. I expressly authorize any appropriate representative of the Firm to make any notifications,
filings or remittances of funds that may be required in connection with the SIP or otherwise on my
behalf. Further, if I am an employee who is resident in South Africa at the time of share
acquisition, by accepting my Award(s), I expressly authorize any appropriate representative of the
Firm to make any required notification on my behalf to the Reserve Bank of South Africa (or its
authorized dealer) in relation to any acquisition of shares for no consideration under the SIP or
other similar filing that may otherwise be required in South Africa. I acknowledge that any such
authorization is effective from the date of acceptance of my Award(s) until such time as I
expressly revoke the authorization by written notice to any appropriate representative of the Firm.
I understand that this authorization does not create any obligation on the Firm to deal with any
such notifications, filings or remittances of funds that I may be required to make in connection
with the SIP and I accept full responsibility in this regard.

Consent to Data Collection, Processing and Transfers: 

I understand and agree that in connection with the SIP and any other Firm benefit plan (the
 Programs ), to the extent permitted under the laws of the applicable jurisdiction, the Firm may
collect and process various data that is personal to me, including my name, address, work location,
hire date, Social Security or Social Insurance or taxpayer identification number (required for tax
purposes), type and amount of SIP or other benefit plan award, citizenship or residency (required
for tax purposes) and other similar information reasonably necessary for the administration of such
Programs (collectively referred to as  Information ) and provide such Information to its affiliates
and BNY Mellon (and its affiliates) or any other service provider, whether in the United States or
elsewhere, as is reasonably necessary for the administration of the Programs and under the laws of
these jurisdictions. I understand that, in certain circumstances, foreign courts, law enforcement
agencies or regulatory agencies may be entitled to access the Information. I understand that,
unless I explicitly authorize otherwise, the Firm, its affiliates and its service providers
(through their respective employees in charge of the relevant electronic and manual processing)
will use this Information only for purposes of administering the Programs. I understand that, in
the United States and in other countries to which such Information may be transferred for the
administration of the Programs, the level of data protection is not equivalent to data protection
standards in the member states of the European Union. I understand that, upon request, to Equity
Compensation (division of HCM), 30 Hudson Street, 35th Floor, Jersey City, NJ 07302, telephone
(212) 357-1444, to the extent required under the laws of the applicable jurisdiction, I may have
access to and obtain communication of the Information and may exercise any of my rights in respect
of such Information, including objecting to the processing of the Information and requesting that
the Information be corrected (if wrong), completed or clarified (if incomplete or equivocal), or
erased (if cannot legally be collected or kept). Upon request, to the extent required under the
laws of the applicable jurisdiction, Equity Compensation (division of HCM) will also provide me,
free of charge, with a list of all the service providers used in connection with the Programs at
the time of request. I understand that, if I refuse to authorize the use and transfer of the
Information consistent with the above, I may not benefit from the Programs. I authorize the use and
transfer of the Information consistent with the above for the period of administration of the
Programs. In particular, I authorize (within the limits described above): (i) the data processing
by the Firm (which means The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates); (ii)
the data processing by BNY Mellon and its affiliates; (iii) the data processing by the Firm s other
service providers; and (iv) the data transfer to the United States and other countries. I further
acknowledge that the Information may be retained by such persons beyond the period of
administration of the Programs to the extent permitted under the laws of the applicable
jurisdiction and I so authorize. 

Other Legal Notices: 

FOR HONG KONG EMPLOYEES ONLY 

WARNING:

The contents of this document have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. You
are advised to exercise caution in relation to the offer. If you are in doubt about any of the
contents of this document, you should obtain independent professional advice.

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge and accept that you will not be permitted to transfer
awards to persons who fall outside the definition of  qualifying persons  in the Companies
Ordinance ( i.e ., a person who is not a current or former director, employee, officer, consultant of
the Firm or a person other than the offeree s wife, husband, widow, widower, child or step-child
under the age of 18 years, or as otherwise defined), even if otherwise permitted under the SIP or
any of the related documents.

FOR INDIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

This website does not invite offers from the public for subscription or purchase of the securities
of any body corporate under any law for the time being in force in India. The website is not a
prospectus under the applicable laws for the time being in force in India. Goldman Sachs does not
intend to market, promote, invite offers for subscription or purchase of the securities of any body
corporate by this website. The information provided on this website is for the record only. Any
person who subscribes or purchases securities of any body corporate should consult his own
investment advisers before making any investments. Goldman
Sachs shall not be liable or responsible for any such investment decision made by any person.

NON-COMPETITION AND NON-SOLICITATION RESTRICTIONS FOR EMPLOYEES PROVIDING SERVICES 

Year End
(Asia)

-2- 

IN HONG KONG, SINGAPORE, INDIA, TAIWAN, INDONESIA, KOREA AND JAPAN 

In addition to and without limiting any provisions in the SIP or the applicable Award Agreement(s)
(including without limitation the Award forfeiture, termination or repayment provisions), I hereby
agree to and acknowledge the following:

(a) If I am providing services to the Firm in Hong Kong, Singapore, India, Taiwan, Indonesia, Korea
or Japan, in view of my importance to the Firm, I hereby agree that the Firm would likely suffer
significant harm from me competing with the Firm for some period of time after my employment ends.
Accordingly, I hereby agree that I will not, without the written consent of the Firm, during the
Restricted Period in the Geographic Area:

(i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest
in, any Covered Competitive Enterprise; or

(ii) associate (including, but not limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner,
director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any Covered Competitive Enterprise and in connection
with such association engage in, or directly or indirectly manage or supervise personnel engaged
in, any activity:

i. which is similar or substantially related to any activity in which I was engaged, in whole
or in part, at the Firm,

ii. for which I had direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility at the Firm,
or

iii. which calls for the application of the same or similar specialized knowledge or skills as
those utilized by me in my activities with the Firm,

at any time during the one-year period immediately prior to termination of my employment, and, in
any such case, irrespective of the purpose of the activity or whether the activity is or was in
furtherance of advisory, agency, proprietary or fiduciary business of either the Firm or the
Covered Competitive Enterprise.

(By way of example only, this provision precludes an  advisory  investment banker from joining a
leveraged-buyout firm, a research analyst from becoming a proprietary trader or joining a hedge
fund, or an information systems professional from joining a management or other consulting firm and
providing information technology consulting services or advice to any Covered Competitive
Enterprise, in each case without the written consent of the Firm.)

(b) I hereby agree that during the Restricted Period, I will not, in any manner, directly or
indirectly, (1) Solicit a Covered Client to transact business with a Covered Competitive Enterprise
or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the Firm, or (2) interfere with or damage (or
attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship between the Firm and a Covered Client.

(c) I hereby agree that during the Restricted Period, I will not, in any manner, directly or
indirectly:

(i) Solicit any Covered Personnel to resign from the Firm or to apply for or accept
employment, consultancy, partnership, membership or similar status with a Covered Competitive
Enterprise;

(ii) hire or participate in the hiring of any Covered Personnel (whether as an employee,
consultant, or otherwise) by a Covered Competitive Enterprise;

(iii) participate in the decision to offer Covered Personnel employment, consultancy,
admission into partnership, membership or similar status with a Covered Competitive Enterprise; or

(iv) participate in the identification of Covered Personnel for potential hiring, consultancy
or admission into partnership, membership or similar status with a Covered Competitive Enterprise.

(d) I acknowledge that I will have violated this provision if, during the Restricted Period, any
Covered Personnel are Solicited, hired, made a consultant or are accepted into partnership,
membership or similar status:

(i) by any Covered Competitive Enterprise which I form, which bears my name, or in which I am
an owner, a partner, a member or have similar status; or

(ii) by any Covered Competitive Enterprise, and I have, or are intended to have, managerial
or supervisory responsibility for such Covered Personnel.

(e) Prior to accepting employment with any other person or entity during the Restricted Period, I
will provide any prospective employer with written notice of these Restrictions with a copy
delivered simultaneously to the Firm.

(f) I understand that the Restrictions may limit my ability to earn a livelihood in a business
similar to the business of the Firm. I acknowledge that a violation on my part of any of the
Restrictions would cause immeasurable and irreparable damage to the Firm. Accordingly, I agree
that the Firm will be entitled to injunctive relief in any court of competent jurisdiction for any
actual or threatened violation of any of Restrictions in addition to any other remedies it may
have. I also acknowledge that a violation of any of the Restrictions would constitute my failure
to meet an obligation I have under an agreement between me and the Firm that was entered into in
connection with my employment with the Firm, and may constitute  Cause  for purposes of any
equity-based awards granted to me by the Firm and will result in my forfeiting such equity-based
awards.

(g) If any provision (or part of a provision) of the Restrictions is held by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable (whether in whole or in part), such provision
will be deemed modified or severed to the extent, but only to the extent, of such invalidity,
illegality or unenforceability and the remaining such provisions will not be affected thereby;
provided, however, that if any of the Restrictions are held by a court of competent jurisdiction to
be invalid, illegal or unenforceable because it exceeds the maximum time period such court
determines is acceptable to permit such provision to be enforceable, such Restrictions will be
deemed to be modified to the minimum extent necessary to modify such time period in order to make
such provision enforceable hereunder.

(h) Any benefit that I give or am deemed to have given by virtue of the Restrictions is received
jointly and severally by The Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates
(including any Firm entity to which I provide services from time to time).

(i) Any benefit that The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. gives or is deemed to have given to me by virtue
of the SIP and Award Agreement(s) is rendered jointly on its own behalf and on behalf of its
subsidiaries and affiliates (including any Firm entity to which I provide services from time to
time).

(j) I acknowledge that the Restrictions set out in this clause are reasonable and necessary for the
protection of the legitimate interests of the Firm, and that, having regard to those interests,
such restrictions do not impose an unreasonable burden on me.

(k) The Restrictions shall remain in full force and effect and survive the termination of my
employment for any reason whatsoever.

(l) If I am a Managing Director subject to a Managing Director Agreement, the Restrictions shall
not apply to me.

(m) If I am a Private Wealth Management employee subject to an Employee Agreement Regarding
Confidential and Proprietary Information and Materials and Non-Solicitation, I will not be subject
to the restrictions contained in clause (b) of the Restrictions.

(n) For the purposes of these Restrictions only, the following terms have the following meanings:

Asia   means the PRC, Hong Kong SAR, Taiwan, Japan, Korea, India, Singapore, Indonesia,
Malaysia, Thailand, Philippines, Brunei and Vietnam.

Covered Client   means any client or prospective client of the Firm (i) to whom I provided
services in the 12 months prior to the Notice Date, or (ii) for whom I transacted business in the
12 months prior to the Notice Date, or (iii) whose identity became known to me in connection with
my relationship with or employment by the Firm in the 12 months prior to the Notice Date and with
respect to whom I had access to confidential information.

Covered Competitive Enterprise   means a business enterprise that (i) engages in any activity,
or (ii) owns or controls a significant interest in any entity that engages in any activity that, in
either case, competes anywhere with any activity in which the Firm is engaged. The activities
covered by the previous sentence include, without limitation, financial services such as investment
banking, public or private finance, lending, financial advisory services, private investing (for
anyone other than me and members of my family), merchant banking, asset or hedge fund management,
insurance or reinsurance underwriting or brokerage, property management, or securities, futures,
commodities, energy, derivatives or currency brokerage, sales, lending, custody, clearance,
settlement or trading.

Employment Period   means the period from the commencement of my employment with, or transfer,
assignment or secondment to, any member of the Firm in Hong Kong SAR, Singapore, India, Taiwan,
Indonesia, Korea or Japan ( GS Asia excluding PRC ) and ending with the date of termination of my
employment with, or transfer, assignment or secondment to, any such member of the Firm in GS Asia
excluding PRC. The Employment Period does not terminate when I commence employment with, or am
transferred, assigned or seconded to, another member of the Firm in GS Asia excluding PRC.

Covered Extended Absence   means my absence from active employment for at least 180 days in
any 12-month period as a result of my incapacity due to mental or physical illness, as determined
by the Firm.

Firm   means The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., its subsidiaries and affiliates and its and their
respective successors.

Geographic Area   means (i) the jurisdiction in Asia in which I am located as of the date of
execution of this signature card; and/or (ii) any other jurisdiction in Asia in relation to which I
have substantial product and/or

Year End
(Asia)

-3- 

geographical market responsibilities; and/or (iii) any other
jurisdiction in Asia in relation to which I have substantial employee managerial responsibilities
as of the date of execution of this signature card.

Notice Date   means the date on which either I or the Firm gives notice of (i) the conclusion
of my transfer, assignment or secondment to any member of the Firm in GS Asia excluding PRC, or
(ii) the termination of my employment with any member of the Firm in GS Asia excluding PRC or, if
the termination is for cause or Covered Extended Absence, the date on which such termination
occurs.

PRC   means, for the purpose of the Restrictions, the People s Republic of China, excluding
Hong Kong SAR, Macau SAR and Taiwan.

Restricted Period   means (i) during the Employment Period; and (ii) for the period of notice
in my employment contract or the period stated in this signature card commencing from the Notice
Date (whichever is longer), irrespective of whether the termination is for cause or Covered
Extended Absence or whether I receive a payment in lieu of all or part of that notice period.

Restrictions   means the non-competition and non-solicitation restrictions for employees
providing services in Hong Kong, Singapore, India, Taiwan, Indonesia, Korea and Japan as set out in
(a) to (n) of this section of this signature card.

Covered Personnel   means any Firm employee, consultant or Managing Director with whom I had
material contact or dealings in the last 12 months of my employment or in relation to whom I had
access to confidential information.

Solicit   means any direct or indirect communication of any kind whatsoever, regardless of by
whom initiated, inviting, advising, encouraging or requesting any person or entity, in any manner,
to take or refrain from taking any action.

(n) These Restrictions shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the
jurisdiction in which I am located and providing services to the Firm at the date of execution of
this signature card.

Signature

Date: 

Print Name:

Employee ID #: 

Year End
(Asia)

-4- 

</EX-10.66>

<EX-10.67>
 24
 y74032exv10w67.htm
 EX-10.67: FORM OF SIGNATURE CARD FOR EQUITY AWARDS (CHINA)

EX-10.67 

Exhibit 10.67 

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.  
 Signature Card For ____ Year-End Awards (China) and the BNY Mellon Custody Account   
 and Consent to Receive Electronic Delivery  

IMPORTANT: PLEASE REVIEW, EXECUTE AND RETURN THIS FORM TO: EQUITY COMPENSATION 
(DIVISION OF HCM), 30 HUDSON STREET, 35TH FLOOR, JERSEY CITY, NJ 07302. 

YOU MUST PROPERLY EXECUTE THIS FORM TO ACKNOWLEDGE ACCEPTANCE OF THE TERMS AND  CONDITIONS OF
YOUR AWARD(S) AND RELATED MATTERS. 

1. I have received and agree to be bound by The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock
Incentive Plan (the  SIP ) and the Award Agreement(s) applicable to me in connection with the    
Year-End Award(s) (the  Award(s) ) that I have been granted by the Firm (as defined below). I
confirm that I have accepted the Award(s) subject to the terms and conditions contained in the SIP
and the Award  Agreement(s), including but not limited to, the requirement that disputes relating to
the Award(s) and the Award Agreement(s) be decided through arbitration in New York City and be
governed by New York law.

As a condition of this grant, I understand that the Award(s) (as well as any other award that the
Firm may grant to me under the SIP) is/are subject to other governing law provisions (as outlined
in this signature card, in the current or otherwise then current Award Summary (as defined below)
or otherwise as may be required under applicable law) and, as a condition to receiving such awards,
I agree to be bound thereby. I also understand that the Firm may grant to me other awards under the
SIP that also may contain (among other terms and conditions) arbitration and other governing law
provisions and, as a condition to receiving such awards, I agree to be bound thereby. As a
condition of this grant, I agree to provide upon request an appropriate certification regarding my
U.S. tax status on Form W-8BEN, Form W-9, or other appropriate form, and I understand that failure
to supply a required form may result in the imposition of backup withholding on certain payments I
receive pursuant to this grant.

Further, as a condition of this grant, if I am a person who has worked in the  United
Kingdom  at any time during the earnings period relating to any award under the SIP, as
determined by the Firm, when requested and as directed by the Firm, I will agree to a Joint
Election under s431 ITEPA 2003 of the laws of the United Kingdom for full or partial disapplication
of Chapter 2 Income Tax (Earnings and Pension) Act 2003 under the laws of the United Kingdom and
will sign and return such election in respect of all future deliveries of shares underlying the
Award(s) and any previous grants made to me under the SIP and understand that the Firm intends to
meet its delivery obligations in shares with respect to my Award(s), except as may be prohibited by
law or described in the accompanying Award Agreement or supplementary materials.

If I have worked in  Switzerland  at any time during the earnings period relating to the
Award(s) granted to me as determined by the Firm, (i) I acknowledge that my Award(s) are subject to
tax in accordance with the rulings and method of calculation of taxable values to be agreed by the
Firm with the Federal and/or Zurich/Geneva cantonal/communal tax authorities or as otherwise
directed by the Firm, and (ii) I hereby agree to be bound by any rulings agreed by the Firm in
respect of any Award(s), which is expected to result in taxation at the time of delivery of shares
(or cash or other property in lieu thereof), and (iii) I undertake to declare and make a full and
accurate income tax declaration in respect of my Award(s) in accordance with the above ruling or as
directed by the Firm.

I understand and acknowledge that any transfer provisions (including, where applicable, escrow and
other similar provisions, but specifically excluding any transfer restrictions imposed on any
Award(s) in the Award Agreement(s) or the SIP) in the SIP or related documents will not apply to me
(i) to the extent that the applicability of those provisions would affect the availability of
relevant exemptions or tax favorable treatment, or (ii) otherwise in circumstances determined by
the Firm in its sole discretion.

2. I have read and understand the Firm s  Notice Periods for Recipients of Year-End Equity-Based
Awards  (the  Notice Policy ), pursuant to which I am required to provide certain specified advance
notice of my intent to leave employment with the Firm. I understand that in executing this form, I
will be agreeing to provide my employing entity with advance notice of my intention to leave
employment with the Firm as follows:

In the Americas, Japan and Asia Ex-Japan (excluding India): 60 days in advance of my
termination date 

In Europe, the Middle East, Africa and India: 90 days in advance of my termination date 

and that, where applicable (see the provisions in the Award Summary), the provisions of the Notice
Policy constitute a permanent change to my terms and conditions of employment. I agree to this
change in consideration of my continued employment with the Firm and my acceptance of the Award(s),
and I agree to be bound by the Notice Policy as in effect from time-to-time.

I also understand that the terms and conditions of my employment shall be permanently changed so
that, in the event that I resign from the Firm, the Firm may either:

Unilaterally waive or reduce the notice period otherwise applicable to my employment, or 

Take such other action as shall have that effect. 

I acknowledge that the Firm retains its right to bring forward the end of the notice period to such
earlier date, and that I will not be entitled to any salary, wages, or benefits after such earlier
date. In addition, I understand that I will not receive pay in lieu for any period of notice that
has been waived or reduced.

This agreement concerning my notice period is being made for and on behalf of my Goldman Sachs
employing entity, and implementation of the Notice Policy does not create an employment
relationship between me and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.

I understand that unless the notice period is waived by agreement or unilaterally as set out above,
or I have exercised a statutory right to make a payment in lieu of my notice period, I will be paid
my base salary and will continue to receive all mandatory benefits during the notice period. I
understand that during my notice period I may (subject to any applicable laws to the contrary) be
required to remain away from the Firm s offices, and/or be removed from any assigned duties or
assigned to other suitable duties during my notice period.

I understand that if I fail to give the full amount of notice as set out above, or to comply in any
respect with the Notice Policy, I will have failed to meet an obligation I have under an agreement
with the Firm, as a result of which the Firm may have certain rights and I may be subject to
certain legal and equitable rights and remedies, including, without limitation, the forfeiture of
the Award(s) and any other awards granted to me (whether before or after the Award(s)) under the
SIP. The forfeiture of such Award(s) will also apply where I fail to give the full amount of notice
by exercising any right I may have under applicable legislation to make a payment in lieu of such
notice. I also understand that, if I fail to comply with the Notice Policy, the Firm may be
entitled to an injunction from a court restraining me from violating it.

I understand that, for employees of Archon Group, L.P., the Notice Policy applies only to Senior
Executives.

3. I have read and understand the Firm s hedging and pledging policies (including, without
limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS Shares, Equity Awards
and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and agree to be bound by them (with respect to
the Award(s) and any prior awards under the SIP), both during and following my employment with the
Firm.

4. If a custody account is required, I request that The Bank of New
York Mellon ( BNY Mellon ) (successor in interest to Mellon Bank, N.A.)  open a custody account for
me as described in the enclosed Custody Agreement among BNY Mellon (as successor in interest to
Mellon Bank N.A.), The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., and myself. I have received and agree to be bound
by the Custody Agreement (or any other such custody agreement previously entered into by me or on
my behalf), including the applicable restrictions on transfers, pledges and withdrawals of Common
Stock, the provisions permitting the Firm to monitor my custody account, and the limitations on the
liability of BNY Mellon and the Firm. I also agree to open an account with any other custodian or
broker selected by the Firm, if the Firm, in its sole discretion, requires me to open an account
with such custodian or broker as a condition to delivery of shares (or cash or other property)
underlying the Award(s).

5. If the Firm advanced or loaned me funds to pay certain taxes (including income taxes and Social
Security, or similar contributions) in connection with the Award(s) (or does so in the future), and
if I have not signed a separate loan agreement governing repayment, I authorize the Firm to
withhold from my compensation any amounts required to reimburse it for any such advance or loan to
the extent permitted by applicable law.

I understand and agree that, if I leave the Firm, I am required immediately to repay any
outstanding amount. I further understand and agree that the Firm has the right to offset, to the
extent permitted by the Award Agreement and applicable law (including Section 409A of the U.S.
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which limits the Firm s ability to offset in the case of
United States taxpayers under certain circumstances), any outstanding amounts that I then owe the
Firm against its delivery obligations under the Award(s) or against any other amounts the Firm then
owes me. I understand that the delivery of shares pursuant to the Award(s) is conditioned on my
satisfaction of any applicable taxes or social security contributions (collectively referred to as
 tax  or  taxes  for purposes of the SIP and all related documents) in accordance with the SIP. To
the extent permitted by applicable law, the Firm, in its sole discretion, may require me to provide
amounts equal to all or a portion of any Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations
imposed on me or the Firm in connection with the grant, vesting or delivery of the Award(s) by
requiring me to choose

Year End (China)

between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or
otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of shares delivered to
me pursuant to the Award(s). However, in no event shall any such choice or the choice specified in
paragraph 6, below, determine, or give me any discretion to affect, the timing of the delivery of
shares or payment of tax obligations. I understand and agree that the Firm may reduce any year-end
cash bonus that I may receive by an amount equal to the estimated Indian Fringe Benefit Tax
applicable to any award (whether or not vested), as determined by the Firm in its sole discretion.

6. If I am an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the
Firm s    fiscal year), I acknowledge and agree that the Firm may, in its sole discretion,
require (to the extent permitted by applicable law) that I provide for a reserve in an amount the
Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or potential
tax consequences related to my separate employment contracts by requiring me to choose between
remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deductions or otherwise) or (ii) in the form
of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of shares delivered to me pursuant to the Award(s) (or
any other of my awards outstanding under the SIP).

7. In connection with any Award Agreement or other interest I may receive in the SIP or any shares
of Common Stock of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. that I may receive in connection with the Award(s)
or any award I have previously received or may receive, or in connection with any amendment or
variation thereof or any documents listed in paragraph 8, I hereby consent to (a) the acceptance by
me of the Award(s) electronically, (b) the giving of instructions in electronic form whether by me
or the Firm, and (c) the receipt in electronic form at my email address maintained at Goldman Sachs
or via Goldman Sachs  intranet site (or, if I am no longer employed by the Firm, at such other
email address as I may specify, or via such other electronic means as the Firm and I may agree) all
notices and information that the Firm is required by law to send to me in connection therewith
including, without limitation, any document (or part thereof) constituting part of a prospectus
covering securities that have been registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, the
information contained in any such document and any information required to be delivered to me under
Rule 428 of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, including, for example, the annual report to security
holders or the annual report on Form 10-K of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. for its latest fiscal
year, and that all prior elections that I may have made relating to the delivery of any such
document in physical form are hereby revoked and superseded. I agree to check Goldman Sachs 
intranet site (or, if I am no longer employed by the Firm, such other electronic site as the Firm
and I may agree) periodically as I deem appropriate for any new notices or information concerning
the SIP. I understand that I am not required to consent to the receipt of such documents in
electronic form in order to receive the Award(s) and that I may decline to receive such documents
in electronic form by contacting Equity Compensation (division of HCM), 30 Hudson Street, 35th
Floor, Jersey City, NJ 07302, telephone (212) 357-1444, which will provide me with hard copies of
such documents upon request. I also understand that this consent is voluntary and may be revoked at
any time on three business days  written notice.

8. I hereby acknowledge that I have received in electronic form in accordance with my consent in
paragraph 7 the following documents:

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan; 

Summary of The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan; 

Custody Agreement with BNY Mellon; 

The    Annual Report for The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.; 

The annual report on Form 10-K for The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. for the fiscal year
ended    , filed with the Securities Exchange Commission on     

The Award Agreement(s); and 

Summaries of the Award(s) ( Award Summary ). 

9. I expressly authorize any appropriate representative of the Firm to make any notifications,
filings or remittances of funds that may be required in connection with the SIP or otherwise on my
behalf. Further, if I am an employee who is resident in South Africa at the time of share
acquisition, by accepting my Award(s), I expressly authorize any appropriate representative of the
Firm to make any required notification on my behalf to the Reserve Bank of South Africa (or its
authorized dealer) in relation to any acquisition of shares for no consideration under the SIP or
other similar filing that may otherwise be required in South Africa. I acknowledge that any such
authorization is effective from the date of acceptance of my Award(s) until such time as I
expressly revoke the authorization by written notice to any appropriate representative of the Firm.
I understand that this authorization does not create any obligation on the Firm to deal with any
such notifications, filings or remittances of funds that I may be required to make in connection
with the SIP and I accept full responsibility in this regard.

Consent to Data Collection, Processing and Transfers: 

I understand and agree that in connection with the SIP and any other Firm benefit plan (the
 Programs ), to the extent permitted under the laws of the applicable jurisdiction, the Firm may
collect and process various data that is personal to me, including my name, address, work location,
hire date, Social Security or Social Insurance or taxpayer identification number (required for tax
purposes), type and amount of SIP or other benefit plan award, citizenship or residency (required
for tax purposes) and other similar information reasonably necessary for the administration of such
Programs (collectively referred to as  Information ) and provide such Information to its affiliates
and BNY Mellon (and its affiliates) or any other service provider, whether in the United States or
elsewhere, as is reasonably necessary for the administration of the Programs and under the laws of
these jurisdictions. I understand that, in certain circumstances, foreign courts, law enforcement
agencies or regulatory agencies may be entitled to access the Information. I understand that,
unless I explicitly authorize otherwise, the Firm, its affiliates and its service providers
(through their respective employees in charge of the relevant electronic and manual processing)
will use this Information only for purposes of administering the Programs. I understand that, in
the United States and in other countries to which such Information may be transferred for the
administration of the Programs, the level of data protection is not equivalent to data protection
standards in the member states of the European Union. I understand that, upon request, to Equity
Compensation (division of HCM), 30 Hudson Street, 35th Floor, Jersey City, NJ 07302, telephone
(212) 357-1444, to the extent required under the laws of the applicable jurisdiction, I may have
access to and obtain communication of the Information and may exercise any of my rights in respect
of such Information, including objecting to the processing of the Information and requesting that
the Information be corrected (if wrong), completed or clarified (if incomplete or equivocal), or
erased (if cannot legally be collected or kept). Upon request, to the extent required under the
laws of the applicable jurisdiction, Equity Compensation (division of HCM) will also provide me,
free of charge, with a list of all the service providers used in connection with the Programs at
the time of request. I understand that, if I refuse to authorize the use and transfer of the
Information consistent with the above, I may not benefit from the Programs. I authorize the use and
transfer of the Information consistent with the above for the period of administration of the
Programs. In particular, I authorize (within the limits described above): (i) the data processing
by the Firm (which means The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates); (ii)
the data processing by BNY Mellon and its affiliates; (iii) the data processing by the Firm s other
service providers; and (iv) the data transfer to the United States and other countries. I further
acknowledge that the Information may be retained by such persons beyond the period of
administration of the Programs to the extent permitted under the laws of the applicable
jurisdiction and I so authorize. 

Other Legal Notices: 

FOR THE EMPLOYEES ASSIGNED TO A REPRESENTATIVE OFFICE IN THE PEOPLE S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 

All documentation in relation to the Award(s) is intended for your personal use and in your
capacity as an employee of the Firm (and/or its affiliate) and is being given to you solely for the
purpose of providing you with information concerning the Award(s) which the Firm may grant to you
as an employee of the Firm (and/or its affiliate) in accordance with the terms of the SIP, this
documentation and the applicable Award Agreement(s). The grant of the Award(s) has not been and
will not be registered with the China Securities Regulatory Commission of the People s Republic of
China pursuant to relevant securities laws and regulations, and the Award(s) may not be offered or
sold within the mainland of the People s Republic of China by means of any of the documentation in
relation to the Award(s) through a public offering or in circumstances which require a registration
or approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission of the People s Republic of China in
accordance with the relevant securities laws and regulations.

NON-COMPETITION AND NON-SOLICITATION RESTRICTIONS FOR EMPLOYEES PROVIDING SERVICES IN THE PEOPLE S
REPUBLIC OF CHINA 

In addition to and without limiting any provisions in the SIP or the applicable Award Agreement(s)
(including without limitation the Award forfeiture, termination or repayment provisions), I hereby
agree to and acknowledge the following:

(a) If I am providing services to the Firm in Asia, in view of my importance to the Firm and BGH,
I hereby agree that the Firm or BGH would likely suffer significant harm from me competing with the
Firm or BGH for some period of time after my employment ends. Accordingly, I hereby agree that I
will not, without the written consent of the Firm or BGH, during the Restricted Period in the
Geographic Area:

(i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation
interest in, any Covered Competitive Enterprise; or

(ii) associate (including, but not limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner,
director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any Covered Competitive Enterprise and in connection
with such association engage in, or directly or indirectly manage or supervise personnel engaged
in, any activity:

i. which is similar or substantially related to any activity in which I was engaged, in whole
or in part, at the Firm,

ii. for which I had direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility at the Firm,
or

Year End (China)

-2- 

iii. which calls for the application of the same or similar specialized knowledge or skills as
those utilized by me in my activities with the Firm,

at any time during the one-year period immediately prior to termination of my employment, and, in
any such case, irrespective of the purpose of the activity or whether the activity is or was in
furtherance of advisory, agency, proprietary or fiduciary business of either the Firm or BGH or the
Covered Competitive Enterprise.

(By way of example only, this provision precludes an  advisory  investment banker from joining a
leveraged-buyout firm, a research analyst from becoming a proprietary trader or joining a hedge
fund, or an information systems professional from joining a management or other consulting firm and
providing information technology consulting services or advice to any Covered Competitive
Enterprise, in each case without the written consent of the Firm or BGH.)

(b) (i) I hereby agree that during the Restricted Period, I will not, in any manner, directly
or indirectly, in Asia (1) Solicit a Covered Client to transact business with a Covered Competitive
Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the Firm or BGH, or (2) interfere
with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship between the Firm or BGH
and a Covered Client.

(ii) To the extent that separate financial consideration may be necessary in order to enforce
the restrictive covenants set forth in Section (a) or Section (b) (1) above, the Firm will pay you
up to 50% of your base salary for the period in which these provisions are in effect after
termination of your employment.

(c) I hereby agree that during the Restricted Period, I will not, in any manner, directly or
indirectly in Asia:

(i) Solicit any Covered Personnel to resign from the Firm or BGH or to apply for or accept
employment, consultancy, partnership, membership or similar status with a Covered Competitive
Enterprise;

(ii) hire or participate in the hiring of any Covered Personnel (whether as an employee,
consultant, or otherwise) by a Covered Competitive Enterprise;

(iii) participate in the decision to offer Covered Personnel employment, consultancy,
admission into partnership, membership or similar status with a Covered Competitive Enterprise; or

(iv) participate in the identification of Covered Personnel for potential hiring or admission
into partnership, membership or similar status with a Covered Competitive Enterprise.

(d) I acknowledge that I will have violated this provision if, during the Restricted Period, any
Covered Personnel are Solicited, hired, made a consultant or are accepted into partnership,
membership or similar status:

(i) by any Covered Competitive Enterprise which I form, which bears my name, or in which I am
an owner, a partner, a member or have similar status; or

(ii) by any Covered Competitive Enterprise, and I have, or are intended to have, managerial or
supervisory responsibility for such Covered Personnel.

(e) I understand that the Restrictions may limit my ability to earn a livelihood in a business
similar to the business of the Firm or BGH. I acknowledge that a violation on my part of any of
the Restrictions would cause immeasurable and irreparable damage to the Firm or BGH. Accordingly,
I agree that the Firm and/or BGH will be entitled to injunctive relief in any court of competent
jurisdiction for any actual or threatened violation of any of the Restrictions in addition to any
other remedies it or they may have.

I also acknowledge that a violation of any of the Restrictions would constitute my failure to meet
an obligation I have under an agreement between me and the Firm that was entered into in connection
with my employment with the Firm, and may constitute  Cause  for purposes of any equity-based
awards granted to me by the Firm and/or BGH and will result in my forfeiting such equity-based
awards.

(f) If any provision (or part of a provision) of the Restrictions is held by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable (whether in whole or in part), such provision
will be deemed modified or severed to the extent, but only to the extent, of such invalidity,
illegality or unenforceability and the remaining such provisions will not be affected thereby;
provided, however, that if any of the Restrictions are held by a court of competent jurisdiction to
be invalid, illegal or unenforceable because it exceeds the maximum time period such court
determines is acceptable to permit such provision to be enforceable, such Restriction will be
deemed to be modified to the minimum extent necessary to modify such time period in order to make
such provision enforceable hereunder.

(g) Any benefit that I give or am deemed to have given by virtue of the Restrictions is received
jointly and severally by the Firm (including any entity of the Firm to which I provide services
from time to time) or BGH.

(h) Any benefit that the Firm gives or is deemed to have given to me by virtue of the SIP and
Award Agreement(s) is rendered jointly on its own behalf and on behalf of the Firm (including any
entity of the Firm to which I provide services from time to time) and BGH.

(i) I acknowledge that the Restrictions set out in this clause are reasonable and necessary for
the protection of the legitimate interests of the Firm and BGH, and that, having regard to those
interests, such restrictions do not impose an unreasonable burden on me.

(j) The Restrictions shall remain in full force and effect and survive the termination of my
employment for any reason whatsoever.

(k) If I am a Managing Director subject to a Managing Director Agreement, the Restrictions shall
not apply to me.

(l) If I am a Private Wealth Management employee subject to an Employee Agreement Regarding
Confidential and Proprietary Information and Materials and Non-Solicitation, I will not be subject
to the restrictions contained in clause (b) of the Restrictions.

(m) For the purposes of the Restrictions only, the following terms have the following meanings:

Asia    means the PRC, Hong Kong SAR, Taiwan, Japan, Korea, India, Singapore, Indonesia,
Malaysia, Thailand, Philippines, Brunei and Vietnam.

BGH    means Beijing Gao Hua Securities Company Limited, its subsidiaries and affiliates, and
its respective successors.

Covered Client    means any client or prospective client of the Firm or BGH (i) to whom I
provided services in the 12 months prior to the Notice Date, or (ii) for whom I transacted business
in the 12 months prior to the Notice Date, or (iii) whose identity became known to me in connection
with my relationship with or employment by the Firm or BGH in the 12 months prior to the Notice
Date and with respect to whom I had access to confidential information.

Covered Competitive Enterprise    means a business enterprise that (i) engages in any activity,
or (ii) owns or controls a significant interest in any entity that engages in any activity that, in
either case, competes anywhere with any activity in which the Firm or BGH is engaged. The
activities covered by the previous sentence include, without limitation, financial services such as
investment banking, public or private finance, lending, financial advisory services, private
investing (for anyone other than me and members of my family), merchant banking, asset or hedge
fund management, insurance or reinsurance underwriting or brokerage, property management, or
securities, futures, commodities, energy, derivatives or currency brokerage, sales, lending,
custody, clearance, settlement or trading.

Covered Personnel    means any Firm or BGH employee, consultant or Managing Director with whom
I had material contact or dealings within the last 12 months of my employment with the Firm or in
relation to whom I had access to confidential information.

Employment Period    means the period from the commencement of my employment with, or transfer,
assignment or secondment to the Firm and ending with the date of termination of my employment with,
or transfer, assignment or secondment to the Firm.

Covered Extended Absence    means my absence from active employment for at least 180 days in
any 12-month period as a result of my incapacity due to mental or physical illness, as determined
by the Firm.

Geographic Area    means (i) the PRC, including Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan; and/or (ii) any
other country in Asia in relation to which I have substantial product and/or geographical market
responsibilities; and/or (iii) any other country in Asia in relation to which I have substantial
employee managerial responsibilities as of the date of execution of this signature card.

Notice Dat   e   means the date on which either I or the Firm gives notice of (i) the conclusion
of my transfer, assignment or secondment to any member of the Firm, or (ii) the termination of my
employment with the Firm, or if the termination is for cause or Covered Extended Absence, the date
on which such termination occurs.

PRC    means the People s Republic of China.

Restricted Period    means (i) during the Employment Period; and (ii) for the period of notice
in my employment contract or the period stated in this signature card commencing from the Notice
Date (whichever is longer), irrespective of whether the termination is for cause or Covered
Extended Absence or whether I receive a payment in lieu of all or part of that notice period.

Restrictions    means the non-competition and non-solicitation restrictions for employees
providing services in the PRC as set out in (a) to (n) of this section of this signature card.

Solicit    means any direct or indirect communication of any kind whatsoever, regardless of by
whom initiated, inviting, advising, encouraging or requesting any person or entity, in any manner,
to take or refrain from taking any action.

(n) The Restrictions shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the
jurisdiction in which my employment relationship governed.

Year End (China)

-3- 

Signature

Date: 

Print Name:

Employee ID #: 

Year End (China)

-4- 

</EX-10.67>

<EX-10.68>
 25
 y74032exv10w68.htm
 EX-10.68: AMENDMENTS TO CERTAIN EQUITY AWARD AGREEMENTS

EX-10.68 

Exhibit 10.68 

AMENDMENTS TO 
EQUITY AWARD AGREEMENTS UNDER 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
(Effective December 31, 2008) 

Each of the  Award Agreements  is hereby amended, as set forth below, effective December 31,
2008. The  Award Agreements  are the agreements specified in List 1 and List 2 below. The
provisions of these Amendments apply only to United States taxpayers.

Capitalized terms used but not defined in these Amendments have the meanings ascribed thereto
in the applicable Award Agreement or in The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan
(the  SIP  or  Plan ). References to  RSUs  shall mean  One-time RSUs ,  Broad-Based RSUs, 
 Year-End RSUs,   French Alternative Year-End RSUs,  or  DSP RSUs,  as may be applicable to any
particular Award Agreement.

The Award Agreements specified in List 1 below are those to which these Amendments apply
without modification. The Award Agreements specified in List 2 below are those to which these
Amendments apply with the modifications specified in List 2. In the case of the Award Agreements
specified in List 2 below, references in Paragraph 15 of these Amendments to provisions of the
Award Agreement shall refer to the corresponding provisions specified in List 2 below
( Corresponding Provisions ). If and to the extent that an Award Agreement does not include a
provision (including any Corresponding Provision) referred to in Paragraph 15 of these Amendments,
the specific portion of these Amendments that refers to that provision shall not apply to that
Award Agreement.

Text of Amendments:  

The Award Agreements are amended as follows: Paragraph 15, as set forth below, shall replace
in its entirety the existing Paragraph 15 of each Award Agreement specified in List 1 or the
Corresponding Provision (if any) of each Award Agreement specified in List 2, and shall be added to
each Award Agreement specified in List 2 that has no Corresponding Provision that corresponds to
Paragraph 15.

15.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 409A.  To comply with  Section
409A  (as defined in Paragraph 15(a), below), including exemptions thereunder, if you are a U.S.
taxpayer, certain provisions of this Award Agreement and of the Plan shall apply only as modified
as provided in this Paragraph 15.

(a) References in this Award Agreement to  Section 409A  refer to Section 409A of the Code,
including any amendments or successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other
administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or
interpreted through further administrative

guidance. This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions that apply to this Award are intended and
shall be construed to comply with Section 409A (including the requirements applicable to, or the
conditions for exemption from treatment as, a  deferral of compensation  or  deferred compensation 
as those terms are defined in the regulations under Section 409A ( 409A deferred compensation ),
whether by reason of short-term deferral treatment or other exceptions or provisions). The
Committee shall have full authority to give effect to this intent. To the extent necessary to give
effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between the
provisions of the Plan and this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement shall
govern, and in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 15 and
the other provisions of this Award Agreement, this Paragraph 15 shall govern.

(b) The Delivery of Shares shall not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable
conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares in respect of your RSUs required by this Agreement
(including, without limitation, those specified in Paragraphs 3(b) and (c), 6(b) and (c) (execution
of waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax liability) and 9 of this Award
Agreement and the consents and other items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are satisfied, and
shall occur by March 15 of the calendar year in which the Delivery Date occurs unless, in order to
permit such conditions or restrictions to be satisfied, the Committee elects, pursuant to Treasury
Regulations section ( Reg. ) 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted in accordance
with Section 409A, to delay delivery of Shares to a later date within the same calendar year or to
such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A, including, without limitation, Regs.
1.409A-2(b)(7) (in conjunction with Section 3.21.3 of the Plan pertaining to Code Section 162(m))
and 1.409A-3(d).

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3(b)(iii) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan,
to the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property
that the Firm may deliver in respect of your RSUs shall not have the effect of deferring delivery
or payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the date on which such
delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would lapse, with respect to
the Shares that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a later date for
this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted under Section
409A, including, without limitation and to the extent applicable, the subsequent election
provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).

(d) Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 3(c), the delivery of Shares referred
to therein shall be made after the date of death and during the calendar year that includes the
date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A).

(e) The delivery of Shares referred to in Paragraph 7 shall occur on the earlier of (i) the
Delivery Date or (ii) within the calendar year in which the termination of Employment occurs;
provided, however, that, if you are a  specified

2 

employee  (as defined by the Firm in accordance with Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code),
delivery shall occur on the earlier of the Delivery Date or (to the extent required to avoid the
imposition of additional tax under Section 409A) the date that is six months after your termination
of Employment (or, if the latter date is not during a Window Period, the first trading day of the
next Window Period). For purposes of Paragraph 7, references in this Award Agreement to
termination of Employment mean separation from service (as defined by the Firm in accordance with
Section 409A).

(f) Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 8 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the
contrary, the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding RSUs shall be
paid to you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any corresponding
regular cash dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for which occurs on or
after the Date of Grant. The payment shall be in an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to
such regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the Shares underlying such
Outstanding RSUs.

(g) The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 9(g) shall be the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) within the calendar year in which the Committee receives satisfactory
documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such delivery or payment shall
be made only at such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as reasonably determined by the
Firm, would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you under Section 409A.

(h) Paragraph 10 and Section 3.4 of the Plan shall not apply to Awards that are 409A deferred
compensation.

(i) Delivery of Shares in respect of any Award may be made, if and to the extent elected by
the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, in
the case of any Award that constitutes 409A deferred compensation, only to the extent that the
later delivery is permitted under Section 409A).

(j) In addition to and without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of
the Plan, neither the Firm nor any Covered Person shall have any liability to you or any other
person for any action taken or omitted in respect of this or any other Award. 

List 1: Award Agreements to which these Amendments apply without modification:  

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan 2008 One-Time RSU
Award Agreements  

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan 2008 Broad Based
Equity Program Award Agreement  

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan One Time RSU Award
Agreement   (from 2007)  

3 

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan 2007 Broad Based
Equity Program Award Agreement  

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan 2007 Year End RSU
Award Agreement  

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan One Time RSU Award
Agreements   (from 2006)  

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan 2006 Year-End RSU
Award Agreement  

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan One Time RSU Award
Agreement   (from 2005, includes prior 409A language)  

List 2: Award Agreements to which these Amendments apply with the following modifications:   

I   The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan 2007 Year-End RSU Award
Agreement   (fully vested) 

(1) 
       
     The references in Paragraph 15(b) shall read  Paragraphs 3(b) and (c), 6(b)
(execution of waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax liability)
and 9 of this Award Agreement... . 

II   The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan 2007 Year-End French Alternative
RSU Award Agreement ; and

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan 2006 Year-End French
Alternative RSU Award Agreement 

(1) 
       
     Paragraph 15(c) shall not apply; and 

(2) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(g) to Paragraph 9(g) shall instead refer to Paragraph
9(h). 

III   The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan 2005 Year-End French
Alternative RSU Award Agreement 

(1) 
       
     Paragraph 15(c) shall not apply; 

(2) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(g) to Paragraph 9(g) shall instead refer to Paragraph
9(h); and 

(3) 
       
     There is no Corresponding Provision to Paragraph 15. This amendment therefore adds a
new Paragraph 15, rather than amending an existing Paragraph 15. 

IV   The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan 2007 Discount Stock Program
Award Agreement   (pre-tax);  and

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan 2006 Discount Stock Program
Award Agreement   (pre-tax) 

4 

(1) 
       
     The references in Paragraph 15(b) shall read  Paragraphs 3(b) and (c), 6(c)
(execution of waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax liability)
and 9 of this Award Agreement... . 

V   The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan 2005 Discount Stock Program Award
Agreement   (pre-tax) 

(1) 
       
     The references in Paragraph 15(b) shall read  Paragraphs 3(b) and (c), 6(c)
(execution of waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax liability)
and 9 of this Award Agreement...  and 

(2) 
       
     In Paragraph 15(g), the words  delivery or  shall be deleted both times those words
appear together. 

VI   The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan 2007 Discount Stock Program
Award Agreement   (French alternative, pre-tax) 

(1) 
       
     The references in Paragraph 15(b) shall read  Paragraphs 3(b) and (c), 6(c)
(execution of waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax liability)
and 9 of this Award Agreement...  

(2) 
       
     Paragraph 15(c) shall not apply; and 

(3) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(g) to Paragraph 9(g) shall instead refer to Paragraph
9(h). 

VII   The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan 2007 Discount Stock Program
Award Agreement   (after-tax);  and

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan 2006 Discount Stock Program
Award Agreement   (after-tax) 

(1) 
       
     The references in Paragraph 15(b) shall read  Paragraphs 3(b) and (c), 7(b)(i)
(execution of waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax liability)
and 10 of this Award Agreement...  

(2) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(c) to Paragraph 3(b)(iii) shall instead refer to Paragraph
3(b)(iv); 

(3) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(e) to Paragraph 7 shall instead refer to Paragraph 

(4) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(f) to Paragraph 8 shall instead refer to Paragraph  

(5) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(g) to Paragraph 9(g) shall instead refer to Paragraph
10(g); 

(6) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(h) to Paragraph 10 shall instead refer to Paragraph 11;
and 

(7) 
       
     All references to paragraph 15 shall instead refer to Paragraph 16. 

VIII   The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan 2005 Discount Stock Program
Award Agreement   (after-tax) 

5 

(1) 
       
     The references in Paragraph 15(b) shall read  Paragraphs 3(b) and (c), 7(b)(i)
(execution of waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax liability)
and 10 of this Award Agreement...  

(2) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(c) to Paragraph 3(b)(iii) shall instead refer to Paragraph
3(b)(iv); 

(3) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(e) to Paragraph 7 shall instead refer to Paragraph  

(4) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(f) to Paragraph 8 shall instead refer to Paragraph  

(5) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(g) to Paragraph 9(g) shall instead refer to Paragraph
10(g) and, because Paragraph 10(g) does not provide for  delivery of Shares,  Paragraph
15(g) shall be read to only apply to  payments;  

(6) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(h) to Paragraph 10 shall instead refer to Paragraph 11;
and 

(7) 
       
     All references to paragraph 15 shall instead refer to Paragraph 16. 

IX   The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan 2007 Discount Stock Program
Award Agreement   (French alternative, after-tax) 

(1) 
       
     The references in Paragraph 15(b) shall read  Paragraphs 3(b) and (c), 7(b)(i)
(execution of waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax liability)
and 10 of this Award Agreement...  

(2) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(c) to Paragraph 3(b)(iii) shall instead refer to Paragraph
3(b)(iv)(A); 

(3) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(e) to Paragraph 7 shall instead refer to Paragraph  

(4) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(f) to Paragraph 8 shall instead refer to Paragraph  

(5) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(g) to Paragraph 9(g) shall instead refer to Paragraph
10(h); 

(6) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(h) to Paragraph 10 shall instead refer to Paragraph 11;
and 

(7) 
       
     All references to paragraph 15 shall instead refer to Paragraph 16. 

X   The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan 2007 Discount Stock Program Award
Agreement for Certain Persons Participating in the Goldman Sachs 2007 Employee Benefits Trust ;
and

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan 2006 Discount Stock Program
Award Agreement   (Japan   SRP) 

(1) 
       
     The references in Paragraph 15(b) shall read  Paragraphs 3(b), (d) and (e), 7(b)(i)
(execution of waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax liability)
and 10 of this Award Agreement...  

(2) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(c) to Paragraph 3(b)(iii) shall instead refer to Paragraph
3(b)(v); 

6 

(3) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(d) to Paragraph 3(c) shall instead refer to Paragraph
3(e); 

(4) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(e) to Paragraph 7 shall instead refer to Paragraph  

(5) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(f) to Paragraph 8 shall instead refer to Paragraph  

(6) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(g) to Paragraph 9(g) shall instead refer to Paragraph
10(g); 

(7) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(h) to Paragraph 10 shall instead refer to Paragraph 11;
and 

(8) 
       
     All references to paragraph 15 shall instead refer to Paragraph 16. 

XI   The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan 2005 Discount Stock Program
Award Agreement   (Japan   SRP) 

(1) 
       
     The references in Paragraph 15(b) shall read  Paragraphs 3(b), (d) and (e), 7(b)(i)
(execution of waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax liability)
and 10 of this Award Agreement...  

(2) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(c) to Paragraph 3(b)(iii) shall instead refer to Paragraph
3(b)(v); 

(3) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(d) to Paragraph 3(c) shall instead refer to Paragraph
3(e); 

(4) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(e) to Paragraph 7 shall instead refer to Paragraph  

(5) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(f) to Paragraph 8 shall instead refer to Paragraph  

(6) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(g) to Paragraph 9(g) shall instead refer to Paragraph
10(g) and, because Paragraph 10(g) does not provide for  delivery of Shares,  Paragraph
15(g) shall be read to only apply to  payments;  

(7) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(h) to Paragraph 10 shall instead refer to Paragraph 11;
and 

(8) 
       
     All references to paragraph 15 shall instead refer to Paragraph 16. 

XII   The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan 2005 Discount Stock Program
Award Agreement   (Germany and Italy) 

(1) 
       
     The references in Paragraph 15(b) shall read  Paragraphs 3(b), (d) and (e), 7(b)(i)
(execution of waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax liability)
and 10 of this Award Agreement...  

(2) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(c) to Paragraph 3(b)(iii) shall instead refer to Paragraph
3(b)(iv); 

(3) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(d) to Paragraph 3(c) shall instead refer to Paragraph
3(e); 

(4) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(e) to Paragraph 7 shall instead refer to Paragraph  

7 

(5) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(f) to Paragraph 8 shall instead refer to Paragraph  

(6) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(g) to Paragraph 9(g) shall instead refer to Paragraph
10(g) and, in Paragraph 15(g), the words  delivery or  shall be deleted both times those
words appear together; 

(7) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(h) to Paragraph 10 shall instead refer to Paragraph 11;
and 

(8) 
       
     All references to paragraph 15 shall instead refer to Paragraph 16. 

XIII   The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan One-Time RSU Award
Agreement   (Hope Team) 

(1) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(b) shall read  Paragraphs 3(b), (c) and (d), and 7 of this
Award Agreement...  

(2) 
       
     Paragraph 15(e) shall not apply; 

(3) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(f) to Paragraph 8 shall instead refer to Paragraph  

(4) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(g) to Paragraph 9(g) shall instead refer to Paragraph
7(g); 

(5) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(h) to Paragraph 10 shall instead refer to Paragraph  and 

(6) 
       
     All references to Paragraph 15 shall instead refer to Paragraph 13. 

XIV   The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan 2005 Year-End RSU Award
Agreement 

(1) 
       
     In Paragraph 15(g), the words  delivery or  shall be deleted both times those words
appear together. 

XV   The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan One Time RSU Award
Agreements   (from 2005, no prior 409A language); 

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan One Time RSU Award
Agreement   (from 2004);  and    

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan 2004 Year-End RSU Award
Agreement 

(1) 
       
     Paragraph 15(g) shall not apply; and 

(2) 
       
     There is no Corresponding Provision to Paragraph 15. This Amendment therefore adds a
new Paragraph 15, rather than amending an existing Paragraph 15. 

XVI   The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan One Time RSU Award
Agreement   (from 2003) 

(1) 
       
     References in Paragraph 15(c) to Paragraph 3(b)(iii) shall instead refer to Paragraph
3(b); 

(2) 
       
     Paragraph 15(g) shall not apply; and 

8 

(3) 
       
     There is no Corresponding Provision to Paragraph 15. This amendment therefore adds a
new Paragraph 15, rather than amending an existing Paragraph 15. 

9 

</EX-10.68>

<EX-10.69>
 26
 y74032exv10w69.htm
 EX-10.69: AMENDMENTS TO CERTAIN NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR EQUITY AWARD AGREEMENTS

EX-10.69 

Exhibit 10.69 

AMENDMENTS TO 
DIRECTOR AWARD AGREEMENTS UNDER 
THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
(Effective December 31, 2008) 

Each of the  Director Award Agreements  (as defined below) for awards of restricted stock
units granted under The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan is hereby amended,
as set forth below, effective December 31, 2008. These Amendments apply only to United States
taxpayers.

Capitalized terms used but not defined in these Amendments have the meanings ascribed thereto
in the applicable Director Award Agreement or in The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock
Incentive Plan. The  Director Award Agreements  to which these Amendments apply are as follows:

1. 
       
     The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan Outside Director 2007
Annual Grant Award Agreement; 

2. 
       
     The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan Outside Director 2007
Annual Retainer Fee Award Agreement; 

3. 
       
     The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan Outside Director 2007
Annual Retainer and Committee Chair Fee Award Agreement; 

4. 
       
     The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan Outside Director 2006
Annual Grant Award Agreement; 

5. 
       
     The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan Outside Director 2006
Annual Retainer Fee Award Agreement; 

6. 
       
     The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan Outside Director 2006
Annual Retainer and Committee Chair Fee Award Agreement; 

7. 
       
     The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan Outside Director Fiscal
2005 Annual Grant Award Agreement; 

8. 
       
     The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan Outside Director 2005
Annual Retainer and Committee Chair Fee Award Agreement; and 

9. 
       
     The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan Outside Director 2005
Annual Retainer Fee Award Agreement. 

Text of Amendments:  

Each Director Award Agreement is amended by adding to each a new Paragraph 12, to read as
provided below, except in the case of the Outside Director Fiscal
2005 Annual Grant Award Agreement. In the case of the Outside Director Fiscal 2005 Annual
Grant Award Agreement, this new Paragraph shall be number 11 instead of 12, all references therein
to Paragraph 12 shall refer instead to Paragraph 11, the references in subparagraph (b) of the new
Paragraph 11 to Paragraphs 7(a) and (b) shall refer instead

to Paragraphs 6(a) and (b), and the new
Paragraph 11 shall not include a subparagraph (f) corresponding to Paragraph 12(f) below.

12.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 409A.  To comply with  Section
409A  (as defined in Paragraph 12(a), below), including exemptions thereunder, if you are a U.S.
taxpayer, certain provisions of this Award Agreement and of the Plan shall apply only as modified
as provided in this Paragraph 12.

(a) References in this Award Agreement to  Section 409A  refer to Section 409A of the Code,
including any amendments or successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other
administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or
interpreted through further administrative guidance. This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions
that apply to this Award are intended and shall be construed to comply with Section 409A (including
the requirements applicable to, or the conditions for exemption from treatment as, a  deferral of
compensation  or  deferred compensation  as those terms are defined in the regulations under
Section 409A ( 409A deferred compensation ), whether by reason of short-term deferral treatment or
other exceptions or provisions). The Committee shall have full authority to give effect to this
intent. To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including, without limitation, Sections
1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement shall
govern, and in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 12 and
the other provisions of this Award Agreement, this Paragraph 12 shall govern.

(b) Delivery of Shares shall not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable
conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares in respect of your RSUs required by this Agreement
(including, without limitation, those specified in Paragraphs 7(a) and (b) and the consents and
other items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are satisfied, and shall occur by December 31 of
the calendar year in which the Delivery Date occurs unless, in order to permit such conditions or
restrictions to be satisfied, the Committee elects, pursuant to Treasury Regulations section
( Reg. ) 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted in accordance with Section 409A, to
delay delivery of Shares to a later date as may be permitted under Section 409A, including, without
limitation, Regs. 1.409A-2(b)(7) (in conjunction with Section 3.21.3 of the Plan pertaining to Code
Section 162(m)) and 1.409A-3(d).

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3(a) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to the
extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property that
the Firm may deliver in respect of your RSUs shall not have the effect of deferring delivery or
payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the date on which such
delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would lapse, with respect to
the Shares that would
otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a later date for this purpose
pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted under Section 409A,
including, without limitation and to the extent applicable, the subsequent election provisions of
Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).

2 

(d) Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 3(b), the delivery of Shares referred
to therein shall be made after the date of death and during the calendar year that includes the
date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A).

(e) Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 4 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the
contrary, the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding RSUs shall be
paid to you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any corresponding
regular cash dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for which occurs on or
after the Date of Grant. The payment shall be in an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to
such regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the Shares underlying such
Outstanding RSUs.

(f) The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 6 shall be the earlier of (i)
the Delivery Date or (ii) within the calendar year in which the Committee receives satisfactory
documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such delivery or payment shall
be made only at such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as reasonably determined by the
Firm, would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you under Section 409A.

(g) Section 3.4 of the Plan shall not apply to Awards that are 409A deferred compensation.

(h) Delivery of Shares in respect of this Award may be made, if and to the extent elected by
the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, in
the case of any Award that constitutes 409A deferred compensation, only to the extent that the
later delivery is permitted under Section 409A). 

3 

</EX-10.69>

<EX-12.1>
 27
 y74032exv12w1.htm
 EX-12.1: STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF RATIOS

EX-12.1 

EXHIBIT 12.1  

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

COMPUTATION OF
    RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES AND RATIOS OF EARNINGS 

TO COMBINED FIXED
    CHARGES AND PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDENDS  

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 28
 y74032exv21w1.htm
 EX-21.1: LIST OF SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES

EX-21.1 

EXHIBIT 21.1 

Significant Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

The following are significant subsidiaries of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. as of November 28, 2008
and the states or jurisdictions in which they are organized. Indentation indicates the principal
parent of each subsidiary. Except as otherwise specified, in each case The Goldman Sachs Group,
Inc. owns, directly or indirectly, at least 99% of the voting securities of each subsidiary. The
names of particular subsidiaries have been omitted because, considered in the aggregate as a single
subsidiary, they would not constitute, as of the end of the year covered by this report, a
 significant subsidiary  as that term is defined in Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

State or Jurisdiction 

Name 

of Entity 

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.

Delaware 

Goldman, Sachs   Co.

New York 

Goldman Sachs (Asia) Finance Holdings L.L.C.

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs Paris Inc. ET CIE

France 

Goldman Sachs Services Limited

British Virgin Islands 

GS Power Holdings LLC

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs (UK) L.L.C.

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs Group Holdings (U.K.)

United Kingdom 

Scadbury UK Limited

United Kingdom 

Scadbury Funding Limited

Cayman Islands 

Scadbury II Assets Limited

Cayman Islands 

Killingholme Generation Limited

United Kingdom 

KPL Acquisitions Limited

United Kingdom 

GS Killingholme Cayman Investments Ltd.

Cayman Islands 

GS Killingholme Cayman Investments II Ltd

Cayman Islands 

GS Killingholme Cayman Investments III

Cayman Islands 

GS Killingholme Cayman Investments IV, L.P.

Cayman Islands 

KPL Finance Limited

Cayman Islands 

Goldman Sachs Holdings (U.K.)

United Kingdom 

Goldman Sachs International

United Kingdom 

Goldman Sachs Asset Management International

United Kingdom 

Forres LLC

Delaware 

Shire UK Limited

United Kingdom 

GS Funding Investments Limited

Cayman Islands 

GS Liquid Trading Platform II Limited

Isle of Jersey 

GS Capital Funding (Cayman) II Limited

Cayman Islands 

MLQ Investors, L.P.

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs Realty Japan Ltd.

Japan 

Nephrite Equity Co., Ltd.

Japan 

GK Blue Square  (1) 

Japan 

GK Frangipani  (1) 

Japan 

K.K. Minato Saiken Kaishu

Japan 

GS Financial Services L.P. (Del)

Delaware 

Chiltern Trust

Isle of Jersey 

Laffitte Participation 10

France 

Laffitte Participation 12

France 

GS Longport Investment Corporation

Delaware 

GSFS Investments I Corp

Delaware 

GS Leasing (KCSR 2007-1) LLC

Delaware 

GS Global Investments, Co.

Delaware 

GS Global Investments UK, Inc.

Delaware 

County UK Limited

Cayman Islands 

County Funding Limited

United Kingdom 

County Assets Limited

Cayman Islands 

Goldman Sachs Global Holdings L.L.C.

Delaware 

GS Asian Venture (Delaware) L.L.C.

Delaware 

Brasilia Cayman Investments Limited

Cayman Islands 

Goldman Sachs (Japan) Ltd.

British Virgin Islands 

Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd.

Japan 

J. Aron Holdings, L.P.

Delaware 

J. Aron   Company

New York 

Prop  
GS Fundo de Investimento Multimercado Credito Privado -

Investimento No Exterior

Brazil 

Goldman Sachs Asset Management, L.P.

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs Asset Management Co., Ltd.

Japan 

Goldman Sachs Hedge Fund Strategies LLC

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs (Cayman) Holding Company

Cayman Islands 

Goldman, Sachs   Co. oHG

Germany 

Goldman Sachs (Cayman) Trust, Limited

Cayman Islands 

Goldman Sachs Global Services II Limited

Cayman Islands 

Goldman Sachs Services (B.V.I.) Limited

British Virgin Islands 

Goldman Sachs (Asia) Corporate Holdings L.P.

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs Holdings (Hong Kong) Limited

Hong Kong 

Goldman Sachs Foreign Exchange (Singapore) Pte.

Singapore 

J Aron   Company (Singapore) Pte.

Singapore 

Goldman Sachs (Asia) Securities Limited

Hong Kong 

Goldman Sachs (Asia) Finance

Mauritius 

Goldman Sachs Financial Markets, L.P.

Delaware 

MTGLQ Investors, L.P.

Delaware 

ELQ Investors, Ltd

United Kingdom 

GS European Opportunities Investment Fund B.V.  (1) 

Netherlands 

Matterhorn Acquisitions Ltd.

United Kingdom 

NEG (TPL) Limited

United Kingdom 

South Wales TPL Investments Limited

United Kingdom 

Western Power Investments Limited

United Kingdom 

Poseidon Acquisitions Ltd

United Kingdom 

Goldman
Sachs Lending Partners LLC

Delaware 

Liquidity Assets Holding Limited

Cayman Islands 

Liquidity Assets Limited

Cayman Islands 

GS Macro Investments LLC

Delaware 

GS Macro Investments II, LLC

Delaware 

GS Mehetia LLC

Delaware 

Mehetia Holdings Inc.

Delaware 

Mehetia Inc.

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs Bank USA

New York 

Goldman Sachs Mortgage Company

New York 

William Street Equity LLC

Delaware 

William Street Funding Corporation

Delaware 

GSCP (DEL) Inc.

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P.

Bermuda 

Litton Mortgage Servicing, LLC

Utah 

Litton Loan Servicing, L.P.

Delaware 

Goldman
Sachs Holdings (Netherlands) B.V.

Netherlands 

Goldman Sachs Mitsui Marine Derivative Products, L.P. (1) 

Delaware 

GSSM Holding II LLC

Delaware 

GSSM Holding II Corp.

Delaware 

GSTM LLC

Delaware 

SLK LLC

New York 

Goldman Sachs Execution   Clearing, L.P.

New York 

GS Financial Services II, LLC

Delaware 

GS Funding Europe Limited

United Kingdom 

Amagansett II Assets Limited

Cayman Islands 

GS European Funding I LTD.

Cayman Islands 

GS Funding Europe II Ltd.

Cayman Islands 

Commonwealth Annuity and Life Insurance Company

Massachusetts 

GS Diversified Funding LLC

Delaware 

GS
Diversified Investments Limited

Delaware 

GS Capital Funding (UK) 1 Limited

United Kingdom 

Reserve Liquid Performance Money Market Fund

New York 

GS Ayco Holding LLC

Delaware 

The Ayco Company, L.P.

Delaware 

Rothesay Pensions Management Limited

United Kingdom 

Eastport Capital Corp.

Delaware 

EPF Financial, LLC

Delaware 

GS Investment Strategies, LLC

Delaware 

GS Mezzanine Partners 2006, L.P.

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs Canada Credit Partners Co.

Canada 

(1)  These entities are partially owned by third-party investors. 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 29
 y74032exv23w1.htm
 EX-23.1: CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

EX-23.1 

EXHIBIT 23.1  

CONSENT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the
    Registration Statements on
     Form S-3 
    (File Nos.
     333-49958, 
     333-74006, 
     333-101093, 
     333-110371, 
     333-112367, 
     333-122977, 
     333-128461, 
     333-130074, 
     333-135453 
    and
     333-154173) 
    and on
     Form S-8 
    (File Nos.
     333-80839, 
     333-42068, 
     333-106430 
    and
     333-120802) 
    of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. of our report dated
    January 22, 2009 relating to the financial statements and the effectiveness of
    internal control over financial reporting, which appears in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 
    We also consent to the incorporation by reference in such
    Registration Statements of our report dated
    January 22, 2009 relating to Selected Financial Data,
    which appears in Exhibit 99.1 of this
     Form 10-K. 

/s/   PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP 

New York, New York

January 22, 2009

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 30
 y74032exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1: RULE 13A-14(A) CERTIFICATIONS

EX-31.1 

EXHIBIT 31.1  

CERTIFICATIONS  

I, Lloyd C. Blankfein, certify that:

1.  I have reviewed this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended November 28, 2008 of The Goldman
    Sachs Group, Inc.;

2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not
    contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state
    a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light
    of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements,
    and other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
    and for, the periods presented in this report;

4.  The registrant s other certifying officer(s)
    and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
    disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
    defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

(a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures,
    or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared;

(b)  Designed such internal control over financial
    reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
    reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
    external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles;

(c)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the
    registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
    presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
    of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the
    period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

(d)  Disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and

5.  The registrant s other certifying officer(s)
    and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
    internal control over financial reporting, to the
    registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the
    registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the
    equivalent functions):

(a)  All significant deficiencies and material
    weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over
    financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
    affect the registrant s ability to record, process,
    summarize and report financial information; and

(b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/   Lloyd
    C. Blankfein 

Name: Lloyd C. Blankfein

Title: Chief Executive Officer

Date: January 26, 2009

CERTIFICATIONS  

I, David A. Viniar, certify that:

1.  I have reviewed this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended November 28, 2008 of The Goldman
    Sachs Group, Inc.;

2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not
    contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state
    a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light
    of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements,
    and other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
    and for, the periods presented in this report;

4.  The registrant s other certifying officer(s)
    and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
    disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
    defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

(a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures,
    or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared;

(b)  Designed such internal control over financial
    reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
    reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
    external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles;

(c)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the
    registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
    presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
    of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the
    period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

(d)  Disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and

5.  The registrant s other certifying officer(s)
    and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
    internal control over financial reporting, to the
    registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the
    registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the
    equivalent functions):

(a)  All significant deficiencies and material
    weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over
    financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
    affect the registrant s ability to record, process,
    summarize and report financial information; and

(b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/   David
    A. Viniar 

Name: David A. Viniar

Title: Chief Financial Officer

Date: January 26, 2009

</EX-31.1>

<EX-32.1>
 31
 y74032exv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1: SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS

EX-32.1 

EXHIBIT 32.1  

Certification  

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, the undersigned officer of
    The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (the  Company ) hereby
    certifies that the Company s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended November 28, 2008 (the
     Report ) fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the
    Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
    condition and results of operations of the Company.

Dated: January 26, 2009

/s/   Lloyd
    C. Blankfein 

Lloyd
    C. Blankfein 
    Chief Executive Officer

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant
    to 18 U.S.C.   1350 and is not being filed as part of the
    Report or as a separate disclosure document.

Certification  

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, the undersigned officer of
    The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (the  Company ) hereby
    certifies that the Company s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended November 28, 2008 (the
     Report ) fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the
    Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
    condition and results of operations of the Company.

Dated: January 26, 2009

/s/   David
    A. Viniar 

David
    A. Viniar 
    Chief Financial Officer

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant
    to 18 U.S.C.   1350 and is not being filed as part of the
    Report or as a separate disclosure document.

</EX-32.1>

<EX-99.1>
 32
 y74032exv99w1.htm
 EX-99.1: REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

EX-99.1 

EXHIBIT 99.1  

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    ON SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  

To the Board of Directors and the Shareholders of

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.:

We have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public
    Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated financial statements of The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) at
    November 28, 2008 and November 30, 2007, and
    for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended
    November 28, 2008 and the effectiveness of the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting as of
    November 28, 2008, and in our report dated
    January 22, 2009, we expressed unqualified opinions
    thereon. We have also previously audited, in accordance with the
    standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
    (United States), the Company s consolidated statements of
    financial condition at November 24, 2006,
    November 25, 2005 and November 26, 2004, and
    the related consolidated statements of earnings, changes in
    shareholders  equity, cash flows and comprehensive income
    for the years ended November 25, 2005 and
    November 26, 2004 (none of which are presented
    herein), and we expressed unqualified opinions on those
    consolidated financial statements. In our opinion, the
    information set forth in the selected financial data for each of
    the five fiscal years in the period ended November 28, 2008,
    appearing on page 211 in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K, 
    is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation to the
    consolidated financial statements from which it has been derived.

/s/   PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP 

New York, New York

January 22, 2009

</EX-99.1>

