<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090226_10-K_edgar_data_927628_0001193125-09-039271_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>4336322</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>863036</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>85430</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2712082</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>139</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-09-039271.hdr.sgml : 20090226
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090226172732
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-09-039271
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		12
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090226
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090226

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000927628
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS [6022]
		IRS NUMBER:				541719854
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-13300
		FILM NUMBER:		09638822

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1680 CAPITAL ONE DRIVE
		STREET 2:		SUITE 1400
		CITY:			MCLEAN
		STATE:			VA
		ZIP:			22102
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7037201000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1680 CAPITAL ONE DRIVE
		STREET 2:		SUITE 1400
		CITY:			MCLEAN
		STATE:			VA
		ZIP:			22102

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	OAKSTONE FINANCIAL CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19940728

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 GehW5my2SWZ2tzBIeDYn9LAUoyOQTOXzjbkhjviRxUOSqIQpCAMNPH7Ka4hd1JqG
 gyat40bSN9F4Z6JXMkodnQ==

 0001193125-09-039271.txt : 20090226

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

            UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549                  FORM 10-K                  (Mark One)    
     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008.        

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED).          For the transition period from                to
                       Commission File No. 1-13300                  CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION        (Exact name of registrant as specified in
its charter)                  

Delaware   
     
   54-1719854    
 
     (State or Other Jurisdiction of       Incorporation or Organization)    
     
     (I.R.S. Employer       Identification No.)     
     
     Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (703) 720-1000                  Securities registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the act:        

Title of Each Class    
      
     Name of Each Exchange       on Which Registered     
 
  Common Stock, $.01 Par Value  
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
     Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:        None                 Indicate by check mark if the
registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes         No     
     Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15 (d) of the
Act.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference
in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.           Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).      Large accelerated filer         Accelerated filer         Non-accelerated
filer           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Act.)    Yes         No           The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of the close of business on June 30, 2008.       Common Stock, $.01 Par Value: $14,119,470,287*                  

*  
  In determining this figure, the registrant assumed that the executive officers of the registrant and the registrant s directors are affiliates of the registrant. Such
assumption shall not be deemed to be conclusive for any other purpose. The number of shares outstanding of the registrant s common stock as of the close of business on January 31, 2009.         Common Stock, $.01 Par Value: 391,827,184 shares        DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE        

1.  
  Portions of the Proxy Statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on April 24, 2009 are incorporated by reference into Part III.                 

Table of Contents  

      CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION        2008 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K        TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Item 1.   
     
   Business   
      
  3   

Overview   
      
  3   

Business Description   
      
  3   

Geographic Diversity   
      
  4   

Enterprise Risk Management   
      
  4   

Technology/Systems   
      
  9   

Funding and Liquidity   
      
  9   

Competition   
      
  9   

Intellectual Property   
      
  10   

Employees   
      
  10   

Supervision and Regulation   
      
  10   

Statistical Information   
      
  17   
 
    Item 1A.   
     
   Risk Factors   
      
  17   
 
    Item 1B.   
     
   Unresolved Staff Comments   
      
  23   
 
    Item 2.   
     
   Properties   
      
  23   
 
    Item 3.   
     
   Legal Proceedings   
      
  24   
 
    Item 4.   
     
   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   
      
  24   
 
    Item 5.   
     
   Market for Company s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters   
      
  25   
 
    Item 6.   
     
   Selected Financial Data   
      
  26   
 
    Item 7.   
     
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
      
  28   
 
    Item 7A.   
     
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk   
      
  78   
 
    Item 8.   
     
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
      
  79   
 
    Item 9.   
     
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
      
  150   
 
    Item 9A.   
     
   Controls and Procedures   
      
  150   
 
    Item 10.   
     
   Directors and Executive Officers of the Corporation   
      
  151   
 
    Item 11.   
     
   Executive Compensation   
      
  151   
 
    Item 12.   
     
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
      
  151    
 
    Item 13.   
     
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   
      
  151   
 
    Item 14.   
     
   Principal Accountant Fees and Services   
      
  151   
 
    Item 15.   
     
   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K   
      
  152   
       
   2   

Table of Contents  

    PART I        

Item 1.   
      Business.                Overview       Capital One Financial Corporation (the  Corporation ) is one of the largest banks in the United
States, incorporated in Delaware on July 21, 1994, whose banking and non-banking subsidiaries market a variety of financial products and services. The Corporation s principal subsidiaries include Capital One Bank (USA), National
Association ( COBNA ) which currently offers credit and debit card products, other lending products, and deposit products; and Capital One, National Association ( CONA ) which offers a broad spectrum of banking products and
financial services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients. The Corporation and its subsidiaries are collectively referred to as the  Company.  Unless indicated otherwise, the terms  Corporation ,  we ,
 us , and  our  refer to the Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.      As
of December 31, 2008, we had $108.6 billion in deposits and $146.9 billion in managed loans outstanding. We are the 4   th    largest issuer of
Visa      ( Visa ) and MasterCard      ( MasterCard ) credit cards in the United States based on managed credit
card loans outstanding, and we are the 10   th    largest depository institution in the United States.      We offer our products throughout the United States. We also offer our products outside of the United States principally through Capital One Bank (Europe) plc, an
indirect subsidiary of COBNA organized and located in the United Kingdom (the  U.K. Bank ), and through a branch of COBNA in Canada. Our U.K. Bank has authority, among other things, to accept deposits and provide credit card and
installment loans. Our branch of COBNA in Canada has the authority to provide credit card loans.      Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange
under the symbol COF and as of January 31, 2009, the Company s common stock was held by 17,653 shareholders. Our principal executive office is located at 1680 Capital One Drive, McLean, Virginia 22102 (telephone number
(703) 720-1000). The Corporation maintains a website at  www.capitalone.com . Documents available on our website include (i) Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics for the Corporation; (ii) the Corporation s Corporate
Governance Principles; and (iii) charters for the Audit and Risk, Compensation, Finance and Trust Oversight, and Governance and Nominating Committees of the Board of Directors. These documents are also available in print to any shareholder who
requests a copy. In addition, we make available free of charge through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after
electronic filing or furnishing of such material to the SEC.         Business Description       Capital One is one of the largest banks in the United States. We are a diversified banking corporation focused primarily on consumer and commercial lending and deposit
origination. Our principal business segments are Local Banking and National Lending. Local Banking includes the Company s branch, treasury services and national deposit gathering activities; its commercial, branch based small business lending
and certain branch originated consumer lending; and its mortgage servicing activities. The National Lending segment consists of two sub-segments: the U.S. Card sub-segment which consists of domestic consumer credit and debit card activities, and;
the Other National Lending sub-segment which includes the Company s auto finance and international lending sub-segments. For further discussion of our segments, see Item 7  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations Reportable Segment Summary  and Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 3.        Local Banking Segment.  The Local Banking segment offers traditional banking products through an extensive branch network in Connecticut, Louisiana, New Jersey,
New York, and Texas. Products include commercial and consumer loans, commercial and consumer deposit account services, commercial credit cards, treasury management services, trust services and other banking related products, such as insurance,
brokerage services, merchant services, and investment banking. In addition, the Local Banking segment offers money market (liquid accounts) and certificate of deposit accounts (time deposits) through internet channels.       U.S. Card Sub-segment . The U.S. Card sub-segment offers a wide variety of credit card and small business products, in addition to unsecured closed-end loans
throughout the United States, which we customize to appeal to different consumer preferences and needs. Our product offerings are supported by extensive brand advertising. We routinely test new products to develop products that appeal to different
and changing consumer preferences. Our customized products include products offered to a wide range of consumer credit risk profiles, as well as products aimed at special consumer interests.       Other National Lending Sub-segment.  The Other National Lending sub-segment includes the Auto Finance sub-segment and International sub-segment.       Auto Finance Sub-segment . In the Auto Finance sub-segment, we purchase retail installment contracts, secured by new and used automobiles or other motor vehicles,
through dealer networks throughout the United States. Additionally, we utilize direct marketing, including the internet, to offer automobile financing directly to consumers for the purchase of new and used vehicles, as well as refinancing of
existing motor vehicle loans. As of December 31, 2008, we are the fourth largest non-captive provider of auto financing in the United States.         
   3   

Table of Contents  

    International Sub-segment . The International sub-segment consists of U.K. and Canada credit card lending,
extending Capital One s national scale lending franchise and providing geographic diversification. In our international sub-segment, we utilize methodologies and approaches similar to those we use in the U.S. Card sub-segment, offering
customized credit card products across the consumer risk spectrum.       Chevy Chase Bank Acquisition       On December 4, 2008, the Company announced its intention to acquire Chevy Chase Bank F.S.B., the largest retail depository institution in the Washington, D.C. region
in a cash and stock transaction valued at approximately $520 million. On February 13, 2009, the Company received approval from the Federal Reserve to acquire all of the shares of Chevy Chase Bank F.S.B. and certain of its subsidiaries. The
Company expects the transaction to close in the first quarter of 2009.         Geographic Diversity       Loan portfolio concentration within a specific geographic region may be regarded differently based upon the current and expected credit characteristics and performance of
the portfolio. Our loan portfolio is geographically diverse, although we do have commercial lending concentrations in the New York metropolitan area and Louisiana. See Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 22  of this form.         Enterprise Risk Management       Capital One s policy is to identify, assess, and mitigate risks that affect or have the potential to affect our business, to target financial returns commensurate
with the Company s risk appetite, and to avoid excessive risk-taking. We follow three key principles related to this policy.       

1.  
  Individual businesses take and manage risk in pursuit of strategic, financial, and other business objectives         

2.  
  Independent risk management organizations support individual businesses by providing risk management tools and policies, and by aggregating risks; in some cases, risks are managed
centrally         

3.  
  The Board of Directors and top management review our aggregate risk position and establish the risk appetite        Our approach is reflected in four critical risk management practices of particular importance in today s environment.      First, we recognize liquidity risk as among the critical risks facing financial institutions today. We seek to mitigate this risk strategically and tactically. From a
strategic perspective, we have acquired and built deposit gathering businesses and significantly reduced our loan to deposit ratio. From a tactical perspective, we have accumulated a very large liquidity reserve comprising cash, high-quality,
unencumbered securities, and committed collateralized credit lines and conduit facilities.      Second, we recognize that credit issues are a frequent cause of
financial institution stress and that we are exposed to cyclical changes in credit quality. Consequently, we try to ensure our credit portfolio is resilient to economic downturns. Our most important tool is conservative underwriting. In consumer
underwriting, we try to anticipate recession and base our underwriting decisions on models that include economic assumptions at least as conservative as our financial planning assumptions. In commercial underwriting, we insist on strong cash flow,
strong collateral, and strong covenants and guarantees. In addition to conservative underwriting, we aggressively monitor our portfolio and aggressively collect or work out troubled loans. In our mortgage portfolio, in addition to standard
collection techniques, we modify loans, including principal forbearance, where appropriate, consistent with the general guidelines in Fannie Mae s and Freddie Mac s programs.      Third, we recognize that reputational risk is of particular concern in today s turbulent environment. Consequently, our CEO and executive team manage both tactical and strategic reputation issues and manage our
relationships with the government, media, and other constituencies to help strengthen the reputations of both Capital One and our industry. This includes taking public positions in support of better consumer practices in our industry and, where
possible, unilaterally implementing those practices in our business.      Finally, we recognize that maintaining appropriate capital levels is a particular
concern in today s environment. In September, we raised $760.8 million of new common equity to provide insurance that would be able to seize new opportunities as they arose and to protect our capital position from the potential for
unanticipated credit deterioration. In October, we agreed to issue $3.5 billion of preferred stock and warrants to the U.S. Treasury under the Capital Purchase Program to protect against any potential risks to our regulatory capital ratios. We plan
and manage our balance sheet, lending and investment activities to conform to our views regarding capital sufficiency. Ensuring that we have sufficient capital is one of the core functions of our Finance Department, Executive Committee, ALCO
Committee, Finance Committee of the Board and our full Board of Directors. See Section X. Capital for further discussion regarding capital.       Risk
Management Roles and Responsibilities       The Board of Directors is responsible for:       

establishing Capital One s overall risk framework;          

authorizing, approving, and overseeing execution of the Enterprise Risk Management Policy; and          

reviewing Capital One s risk profile and establishing the overall risk appetite.         The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for:       

managing the company s overall risk position;          

appointing the Chief Risk Officer, subject to the Board s approval;            
   4   

Table of Contents  

appointing executives to the Risk Management Committee, in coordination with the Chief Risk Officer; and          

selecting Risk Stewards for each risk category based on subject matter expertise and organizational authority.         The Division Presidents are responsible for:       

identifying risks and implementing appropriate risk controls when pursuing their business strategies and objectives;          

ensuring their businesses operate within the corporate risk appetite and comply with policies and procedures established by the Risk Stewards;

considering risk when developing strategic plans, budgets, and new products, including mitigating risk when necessary;          

producing risk reporting that is relevant, sufficient, accurate and timely; and          

designating Business Chief Risk Officers for their respective divisions.         The Chief Risk Officer is responsible for:       

assessing the quality of Capital One s risk management program and driving appropriate action to resolve gaps in the risk management program or in risk
mitigation;          

establishing and implementing Capital One s overall Enterprise Risk Management Policy;          

overseeing the overall Enterprise Risk Management Program;          

chairing the Risk Management Committee;          

appointing the Enterprise Risk Management Executive; and          

aggregating risks and reporting Capital One s risk profile to the Board of Directors.         The Enterprise Risk Management Executive is responsible for:       

providing frameworks, tools and methods to identify and manage risk;          

monitoring adherence with the Enterprise Risk Management Policy;          

analyzing, aggregating, and recommending risks for top risk designation;          

managing processes and providing tools for identification, aggregation and mitigation of risks across all risk categories; and          

managing risk related to horizontal functions on behalf of the entire company.         Risk Stewards are responsible for:       

continually monitoring the effectiveness of risk management processes for their risk category;          

setting direction and establishing risk limits (i.e. risk appetite) for their risk category consistent with the risk appetite established by the Board;

identifying when a business area is operating outside of established risk limits and driving corrective action.         Each Business Chief Risk Officer is responsible for the following in his/her business division:       

assessing the quality of the division s risk management program and driving to resolve gaps in the risk management program or in risk mitigation;

creating and maintaining a risk management culture;          

executing a comprehensive risk management strategy;          

leading regular, actionable risk self-assessments that are reviewed with their Division President and the Enterprise Risk Management Executive;

ensuring proper controls are in place and that such controls are properly executed;          

ensuring risk monitoring and data are proper, comprehensive, and accurate; and          

executing an information and communication strategy that supports the risk culture and key risk management objectives.          Risk Management Committees       Capital One maintains the following three
top level risk committees, each with appropriate sub-committees as indicated:       

1.  
  Asset/Liability Management Committee: oversees rate risk, market risk, capital adequacy, and the investment portfolio         

Balance Sheet Risk Management Committee          

2.  
  Credit Policy Committee: oversees the corporate credit portfolio and enterprise-wide credit program and policies         

Divisional Credit Committees for each major product segment          

3.  
  Risk Management Committee: oversees the enterprise risk policy and program with a focus on overall/aggregate risks         

Compliance Committee          

Operational Risk Committee          Risk Management and
Control Framework       Capital One uses a consistent framework to manage risk. The framework applies at all levels, from the development of the Enterprise
Risk Management Program itself to the tactical operations of the front-line business team. The framework has six key elements:       

1.  
  Objective Setting;           
   5   

Table of Contents  

2.  
  Risk Assessment;         

3.  
  Control Activities;         

4.  
  Communication and Information;         

5.  
  Program Monitoring; and         

6.  
  Organization and Culture.          Objective Setting   is at the
beginning of our risk management approach. We set strategic, financial, operational, and other objectives during our strategic and annual planning processes and throughout the year. These objectives cascade through the organization to individual
teams of associates.             Risk Assessment   is the process of identifying risks to our objectives, evaluating the impact of those
risks and choosing a response. Responses include avoidance, mitigation, or acceptance. Risk responses are guided by our established risk appetite. In certain risk categories, risk assessment is largely conducted by central risk groups or jointly
between business areas and central groups (market, liquidity, legal, credit, compliance). In other risk categories, risk assessment is primarily the responsibility of business areas with more limited central support (strategic, operational,
reputation).        Control Activities   are the day-to-day backbone of our Enterprise Risk Management Program. Controls provide reasonable assurance
that legal, regulatory, and business requirements are met, and identified risks are being mitigated, avoided, or accepted according to our risk appetite. We have practices in place to ensure key controls are established, evaluated, and effective in
preventing a breakdown. Control activities include the monitoring of adherence to current requirements, regular reporting to management, and regular reviews and sign-offs. They also include the resolution of regulatory and audit findings and issues
and the procedures that trigger objective setting and risk assessments when new business opportunities are evaluated or business hierarchy changes occur.        Communication and Information   must provide a solid infrastructure to support the objective setting, risk assessment, and control activities described above. We have established policies for each risk category which define the
specific reports to be used and the communication infrastructure. Robust risk management requires well-functioning communication channels to inform associates of their responsibilities, alert them to issues or changes that might affect their
activities, and to enable an open flow of information up, down, and across the company.        Program Monitoring   is critical to the Enterprise
Risk Management Program itself because it assesses the accuracy, sufficiency, and effectiveness of current objectives, risk assessments, controls, ownership, communication, and management support. Where deficiencies are discovered, the Enterprise
Risk Management Program must be updated to resolve the deficiencies in a timely manner. Clear accountability must also be defined when resolving deficiencies to ensure the desired outcome is achieved. Risk management programs are monitored at every
level; from the overall Enterprise Risk Management Program to the individual risk management activities in each business area.      Our   Organization and
Culture   promote risk management as a key factor in making important business decisions. An effective risk management culture starts with a well-defined risk management philosophy. It requires established risk management objectives that align
to business objectives and make targeted risk management activities part of ongoing business management activities.      We have a corporate Code of Business
Conduct and Ethics (the  Code ) (available on the Corporate Governance page of our website at www.capitalone.com/about) under which each associate is obligated to behave with integrity in dealing with customers and business partners and to
comply with applicable laws and regulations. We disclose any waivers to the Code on our website. Currently, there are no waivers. We also have an associate performance management process that emphasizes achieving business results while ensuring
integrity, compliance, and sound business management. Our risk management culture is also encouraged through frequent direction and communications from the Board of Directors, senior leadership, corporate and departmental risk management policies,
risk management and compliance training programs and on-going risk assessment activities in the business areas.       Risk Appetite       Capital One organizes its Enterprise Risk Management Program around eight risk categories. The risk categories enable us to efficiently aggregate risks, provide a
mechanism to discuss risk appetite, and facilitate the assignment of expert risk resources to support our business activities. While we customize specific risk objectives and control methodologies to each risk category, they share, at the highest
level, a common approach to describing and measuring risk appetite.      Risk appetites are approved by the Board of Directors and are used both to monitor the
company s evolving risk position and to guide strategic and tactical decision making. The risk appetite framework assesses each risk category across the following three dimensions:       

1.  
  Net Risk: Assessment of the level of risk given internal and external factors;         

2.  
  Quality of Governance and Controls: Evidence demonstrating the strength (or weakness) of our risk governance structure and/or controls associated with the risk category and our
ability to address issues; and         

3.  
  Mitigation Plan Status: When needed, the status of key mitigation activity needed to reduce risk.           
   6   

Table of Contents  

    Risk Categories       Capital One s risk management program is organized around eight risk categories. They are:       

1.  
  Liquidity         

3.  
  Reputation         

5.  
  Strategic         

6.  
  Operational         

7.  
  Compliance         
    Following are descriptions of our approach to each risk category.
       Liquidity Risk   is the risk that future financial obligations are not met or future asset growth cannot occur because of an inability to
obtain funds at a reasonable price within a reasonable time.      The Chief Financial Officer is the accountable executive for liquidity risk and serves as the
Risk Steward.      Liquidity strength is assessed through balance sheet metrics, and stress testing is used to ensure that Capital One can withstand
significant degradation in the funding markets (particularly in the wholesale funding markets). We regularly evaluate our liquidity position under various liquidity stress scenarios with the Asset/Liability Management Committee and Finance
Committee, providing recommendations for any necessary actions to ensure our liquidity risk exposure is well managed. Management reports liquidity metrics to the Finance Committee no less than quarterly. Breaches in liquidity policy limits are
reported to the Treasurer as soon as they are identified and to the Asset/Liability Management Committee at the next regularly scheduled committee meeting, unless said breach activates the Liquidity Contingency Plan. Breaches are also reported to
the Finance Committee no later than the next regularly scheduled meeting. Detailed processes, requirements and controls are contained in our policies and supporting procedures.        Credit Risk   is the risk of loss from a borrower s failure to meet the terms of any contract or failure to otherwise perform as agreed. There are four primary sources of credit risk:
(1) changing economic conditions, which affect borrowers  ability to pay and the value of any collateral; (2) a changing competitive environment, which affects customer debt loads, borrowing patterns and loan terms; (3) our
underwriting strategies and standards, which determine to whom we offer credit and on what terms; and (4) the quality of our internal controls, which establish a process to test that underwriting conforms to our standards and identifies credit
quality issues so we can act upon them in a timely manner.      The Chief Risk Officer is the accountable executive for credit risk and serves as the Risk
Steward. Responsibility for consumer credit risk is delegated to the Chief Consumer Credit Officer and responsibility for commercial credit risk is delegated to the Chief Commercial Credit Officer.      We have quantitative credit risk guidelines for each of our lines of business. We conduct portfolio and decision level monitoring and stress tests using economic and
legislative stress scenarios. Credit risk objectives are achieved by establishing a credit governance framework and by establishing policies, procedures, and controls for each step in the credit process. The Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Risk Officer, Chief Consumer and Commercial Credit Officers, and Division Presidents have specific accountable roles in the management of credit risk. These include policy approval, creation of credit strategy, review of credit position, and
delegation of authority. Our evolving credit risk position and recommendations to address issues are reviewed by the Credit Policy Committee and the Board of Directors.        Reputation Risk   is the risk to market value, recruitment, and retention of talented associates and a loyal customer base due to the negative perceptions of Capital One s internal and external
stakeholders regarding Capital One s business strategies and activities.      The Company s General Counsel is the accountable executive for
reputation risk and the Corporate Affairs Executive is the Risk Steward on behalf of the General Counsel.      Reputation risk is managed and owned by business
areas in accordance with our Reputation Risk Policy. The Corporate Affairs Executive assists business areas in evaluating the reputation risk of new and existing business activities. Each Division President is responsible for highlighting potential
reputational issues and executing appropriate risk mitigation activities. The Corporate Affairs Executive is responsible for assessing and reporting our aggregate reputation risk, as well as the state of Capital One s reputation with specific
stakeholder groups, to the General Counsel, Chief Risk Officer, and Risk Management Committee.         
   7   

Table of Contents  

     Market Risk   is the risk that earnings or the economic value of equity will under-perform due to changes in
interest rates, foreign exchange rates (market rates), or other financial market asset prices. Our ability to manage market risks contributes to our overall capital management.      The Chief Financial Officer is the accountable executive for market risk and serves as the Risk Steward.      The market risk
positions of Capital One s banking entities and the consolidated Company are calculated separately and in total, are compared to the pre-established limits, and are reported to the Asset/Liability Management Committee and Finance Committee no
less than quarterly. Management is authorized to utilize financial instruments to actively manage market risk exposure. Detailed processes, requirements and controls are contained in our policies and supporting procedures.        Strategic Risk   is the risk that Capital One fails to achieve short and long-term business objectives because we fail to develop the products, capabilities,
and competitive position necessary to attract consumers, compete with competitors and withstand market volatility. The result is a failure to deliver returns expected by stakeholders (customers, associates, shareholders, investors, communities, and
regulators).      The Chief Executive Officer is the accountable executive for Capital One strategy. The Strategy Executive serves as the Risk Steward for
strategy risk identification, aggregation, and mitigation on behalf of the Chief Executive Officer.      The Chief Executive Officer, together with the
strategy executive, develops an overall corporate strategy and leads alignment of the entire organization with this strategy through definition of strategic imperatives and top-down communication. The Chief Executive Officer and other senior
executives spend significant time throughout the entire company sharing the company s strategic imperatives to promote an understanding of our strategy and connect it to day-to-day associate activities to enable effective execution. Division
Presidents are accountable for defining business strategy within the context of the overall corporate level strategy and Strategic Imperatives. Division Presidents review their strategies with the strategy group to assess strategy viability and
identify and mitigate risks. Business strategies are integrated into the Corporate Strategic Plan and are reviewed and approved separately and together on an annual basis by the Chief Executive Officer and Board of Directors.          Operational Risk     is the risk of direct or indirect financial loss from failed or inadequate processes, associate capabilities or systems, or
exposure to external events. The risk of financial loss associated with litigation is also included under operational risk.        The Chief Risk Officer
is the accountable executive for establishment of risk management standards and for governance and monitoring of operational risk at a corporate level. Division Presidents have primary accountability for management of operational risk within their
business areas. The Operational Risk Management Executive is the Risk Steward for operational risk.      While most operational risks are managed and
controlled by business areas, the Operational Risk Management Program establishes requirements and control processes that assure certain consistent practices in the management of operational risk, and provides transparency to the corporate
operational risk profile. Our Operational Risk Management Program also includes two primary additional functions. Operational Risk Reporting involves independent assessments of the control and sustainability of key business processes at a corporate
and business area level, and such assessments are provided to the Chief Risk Officer, Risk Management Committee, and Audit and Risk Committee. The Operational Risk Capital function, in conjunction with the corporate capital process managed by Global
Finance, establishes necessary operational risk capital levels to assure resiliency against extreme operational risk event scenarios.      Operational Risk
results and trends are reported to the Risk Management Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board.        Compliance Risk   is the risk
of financial loss due to regulatory fines or penalties, restriction or suspension of business, or cost of mandatory corrective action as a result of failing to adhere to applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance.      Division Presidents are the accountable executives for compliance risk and are responsible for building and maintaining compliance processes and providing required
reporting to the Risk Steward. With the Chief Compliance Officer, Division Presidents are jointly accountable for ensuring the Compliance Management Program requirements are met for their division. The Chief Compliance Officer is the Risk Steward.
     We ensure compliance by maintaining an effective Compliance Management Program consisting of sound policies, systems, processes, and reports. The
Compliance Management Program provides management with guidance, training, and monitoring to provide reasonable assurance of our compliance with internal and external compliance requirements. Additionally, management and  
       
   8   

Table of Contents  

the Corporate Compliance department jointly and separately conduct on-going monitoring and assess the state of compliance. The assessment provides the basis
for performance reporting to management and the Board, allows business areas to determine if their compliance performance is acceptable, and confirms effective compliance controls are in place. Business areas embed compliance requirements and
controls into their business policies, standards, processes and procedures. They regularly monitor and report on the efficiency of their compliance controls. Corporate Compliance, jointly working with the business, defines and validates a standard
compliance monitoring and reporting methodology. Compliance results and trends are reported to the Risk Management Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board.        Legal Risk   is the risk of material adverse impact due to: (i) new and changed laws and regulations; (ii) new interpretations of law; (iii) the drafting, interpretation and enforceability
of contracts; (iv) adverse decisions or consequences arising from litigation or regulatory scrutiny; (v) the establishment, management and governance of our legal entity structure; and (vi) the failure to seek or follow appropriate
Legal counsel when needed.      The company s General Counsel is the accountable executive for monitoring and controlling legal risk and serves as the
Risk Steward.      The Legal department serves as our control against legal risk by providing legal evaluation and guidance. This evaluation and guidance is
based on the assessment of Legal counsel as to the type and degree of legal risk associated with internal business area practices and activities, and of the controls the business has in place to mitigate legal risk. When Legal becomes aware of any
risk that falls outside of acceptable risk assessment limits, there is an internal escalation process to ensure appropriate executives are made aware of that risk in a timely manner. In addition, we holistically review our legal risk position each
quarter with the Legal Risk Steward, other senior executives, and the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board of Directors.         Technology / Systems       We leverage information technology to achieve our business objectives and to develop and
deliver products and services that satisfy our customers  needs. A key part of our strategic focus is the development of efficient, flexible computer and operational systems to support complex marketing and account management strategies and the
development of new and diversified products. Our commitment to managing risk and ensuring effective controls is built into all of our strategies. We believe that the continued development and integration of these systems is an important part of our
efforts to reduce costs, improve quality and provide faster, more flexible technology services. Consequently, we continuously review capabilities and develop or obtain systems, processes and competencies to meet our unique business requirements.
     As part of our continuous efforts to review and improve our technologies, we may either develop such capabilities internally or rely on third party
outsourcers who have the ability to deliver technology that is of higher quality, lower cost, or both. Over time, we have increasingly relied on third party outsourcers to help us deliver systems and operational infrastructure. These relationships
include (but are not limited to): Total System Services Inc. ( TSYS ) for processing services for Capital One s North American and United Kingdom portfolios of consumer and small business credit card accounts,
Fidelity National Information Services ( Fidelity ) for the Capital One banking systems, and IBM Corporation for management of our North American data centers. In the first quarter of 2008, we migrated our United Kingdom credit card
portfolio to the European version of the TSYS processing platform.      During the first half of 2008, we completed the conversion of the legacy North Fork
banking systems to a single platform hosted by Fidelity. We are in the initial stages of assessing the potential impact of the proposed Chevy Chase Bank F.S.B., acquisition on our systems and technology. We expect the Chevy Chase Bank F.S.B.
acquisition to close in the first quarter of 2009 and we expect to complete integration planning in mid-2009 and to begin the subsequent migrations later in the year.         Funding and Liquidity       A discussion of our funding programs and liquidity has been included
in Item 
7  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Funding.         
 Competition       As a diversified bank that markets credit cards and consumer and commercial financial products and services, we face intense
competition in all aspects of our business from numerous bank and non-bank providers of financial services.      We compete with national and state banks for
deposits, commercial loans and trust accounts and with savings and loan associations and credit unions for loans and deposits. We also compete with other financial services providers for loans, deposits, and other services and products. In addition,
we compete against non-depository institutions that are able to offer products and services that were typically banking products and services. In general, in the current economic environment, customers are attracted to depository institutions that
are perceived as stable, with solid liquidity and funding.         
   9   

Table of Contents  

   We compete with international, national, regional and local
issuers of Visa      and MasterCard      credit cards, as well as with American Express     , Discover Card      and, to a certain extent, debit cards. In general, customers are attracted to credit card issuers largely on the basis of price, credit
limit and other product features, and customer loyalty is often limited.      In motor vehicle finance, we face competition from banks and non-bank lenders who
provide financing for dealer-originated loans.      We believe that we are able to compete effectively in our current markets. There can be no assurance,
however, that our ability to market products and services successfully or to obtain adequate returns on our products and services will not be impacted by the nature of the competition that now exists or may later develop, or by the broader economic
environment. For a discussion of the risks related to our competitive environment, please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors  We Face Intense Competition in All of Our Markets.          Intellectual Property       As part of our overall and ongoing strategy to protect and enhance our
intellectual property, we rely on a variety of protections, including copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, patents and certain restrictions on disclosure and competition. We also undertake other measures to control access to and distribution of
our other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use certain intellectual property or proprietary information without authorization. Our precautions may not prevent
misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or proprietary information. In addition, our competitors also file patent applications for innovations that are used in our industry. The ability of our competitors to obtain such patents
may adversely affect our ability to compete. Conversely, our ability to obtain such patents may increase our competitive advantage. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in such efforts, or that the ability of our competitors to
obtain such patents may not adversely impact our financial results.         Employees       As of December 31, 2008, we employed approximately 25,800 employees whom we refer to as  associates.  A central part of our philosophy is to attract and
maintain a highly capable staff. We view current associate relations to be satisfactory. None of our associates is covered under a collective bargaining agreement.           Supervision and Regulation         General        The Company is a bank holding company ( BHC ) under Section 3 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the  BHC Act ) (12 U.S.C.
  1842). The Company is subject to the requirements of the BHC Act, including its capital adequacy standards and limitations on the Company s nonbanking activities, and to supervision, examination and regulation by the Federal Reserve
Board (the  Federal Reserve ). Permissible activities for a BHC include those activities that are so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto such as consumer lending and other activities that have been approved by the
Federal Reserve by regulation or order. Certain servicing activities are also permissible for a BHC if conducted for or on behalf of the BHC or any of its affiliates. Impermissible activities for BHCs include activities that are related to commerce
such as retail sales of nonfinancial products. Under Federal Reserve policy, the Corporation is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to any banks that it controls, including COBNA and CONA (the  Banks ), and to
commit resources to support them.      On May 27, 2005, the Company became a  financial holding company  under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act
amendments to the BHC Act (the  GLBA ). The GLBA removed many of the restrictions on the activities of BHCs that become financial holding companies. A financial holding company, and the non-bank companies under its control, are permitted
to engage in activities considered financial in nature (including, for example, insurance underwriting, agency sales and brokerage, securities underwriting, dealing and brokerage and merchant banking activities); incidental to financial activities;
or complementary to financial activities if the Federal Reserve determines that they pose no risk to the safety or soundness of depository institutions or the financial system in general.      The Company s election to become a financial holding company under the GLBA certifies that the depository institutions the Company controls meet certain criteria,
including capital, management and Community Reinvestment Act ( CRA ) requirements. If the Company were to fail to continue to meet the criteria for financial holding company status, it could, depending on which requirements it failed to
meet, face restrictions on new financial activities or acquisitions and/or be required to discontinue existing activities that are not generally permissible for bank holding companies.      COBNA and CONA are national associations chartered under the laws of the United States, the deposits of which are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the
 FDIC ) up to applicable limits. In addition to regulatory requirements imposed as a result of COBNA s international operations (discussed below), COBNA and CONA are subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic examination by the
OCC and the FDIC.      On January 1, 2008, Capital One Auto Finance, Inc. ( COAF ), which engages in automobile financing activities, became a
wholly owned subsidiary of CONA. In connection with the COAF reorganization, which included the transfer of approximately $10 billion in assets, the Corporation  
       
   10   

Table of Contents  

committed to the Federal Reserve to contribute capital to CONA equal to the amount of transferred assets that are or become low-quality assets (as defined in
Regulation W) and to hold an amount of risk based capital equal to the book value of low-quality assets. CONA must consider these commitments, in addition to the factors outlined in  Dividends and Transfers of Funds  below, among other
factors when declaring a dividend to the Company.      The Company is also registered as a financial institution holding company under Virginia law and as such
is subject to periodic examination by Virginia s Bureau of Financial Institutions. The Company also faces regulation in the international jurisdictions in which it conducts business (see below under International Regulation).      On February 13, 2009, the Company received approval from the Federal Reserve to acquire all the shares of Chevy Chase Bank, F.S.B., and certain of its subsidiaries.
Subject to the receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals, the Company expects to merge Chevy Chase Bank, F.S.B., with and into CONA prior to the end of 2009.        Regulation of Business Activities        The activities of the Banks as consumer lenders also are subject to regulation under various
federal laws, including the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act (the  FCRA ), the Community Reinvestment Act and the Service members Civil Relief Act, as well as under various state laws.
Depending on the underlying issue and applicable law, regulators are often authorized to impose penalties for violations of these statutes and, in certain cases, to order the Banks to compensate injured borrowers. Borrowers may also have a private
right of action to bring actions for certain violations. Federal bankruptcy and state debtor relief and collection laws also affect the ability of the Banks to collect outstanding balances owed by borrowers. These laws plus state sales finance laws
also affect the ability of our automobile financing business to collect outstanding balances.        New Regulations        On December 18, 2008, the Federal Reserve amended Regulation AA to include new rules that would place limitations on certain credit card practices. Among other
things, the final rules: (i) impose restrictions on increases in the rate charged on pre-existing credit card balances; (ii) prohibit the use of payment allocation methods that maximize interest charges; (iii) limit the
imposition of  default  annual percentage rates on existing credit card balances; (iv) prohibit the imposition of interest charges using the  two-cycle  billing method; and (v) require that consumers receive a certain
amount of time to make their credit card payments. These rules must be implemented by July 1, 2010. While many of the provisions in the new rules are targeted at practices in which Capital One has not engaged, we anticipate that we will
need to make significant changes to current account risk management strategies to address the new limitations these rules impose.      The Federal Reserve also
amended Regulation Z on December 18, 2008 to change a number of disclosure and other obligations for credit cards. Among other things, the final rule requires changes to: (i) solicitation and application
disclosures; (ii) account opening disclosures; (iii) periodic statements; (iv) disclosures regarding changes in terms; and (v) convenience check disclosures. These rules also must be implemented by July 1,
2010. The amendments will require substantial modifications to virtually all marketing and account management communications.      For a discussion of the
risks posed to the Company as a result of these new regulations, please refer to  Compliance With New and Existing Laws and Regulations May Increase Our Costs, Limit Our Ability To Pursue Business Opportunities, And Increase Compliance
Challenges  under Item 1A. Risk Factors.        Dividends and Transfers of Funds        Traditionally dividends to the Company from its direct and indirect subsidiaries have represented a major source of funds for the Company to pay dividends on its stock,
make payments on corporate debt securities and meet its other obligations. There are various federal and state law limitations on the extent to which the Banks can finance or otherwise supply funds to the Company through dividends, loans or
otherwise. These limitations include minimum regulatory capital requirements, federal and state banking law requirements concerning the payment of dividends out of net profits or surplus, Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and
Regulation W governing transactions between an insured depository institution and its affiliates, and general federal and state regulatory oversight to prevent unsafe or unsound practices. In general, federal and applicable state banking laws
prohibit, without first obtaining regulatory approval, insured depository institutions, such as the Banks, from making dividend distributions if such distributions are not paid out of available earnings or would cause the institution to fail to meet
applicable capital adequacy standards.      In the current economic environment, however, we expect that the Company may represent a major source of funds for
its direct and indirect subsidiaries.      In addition, as a result of our participation in the U.S. Department of Treasury s TARP Capital Purchase
Program ( CPP ), the Company must obtain the U.S. Treasury s consent to increase dividends on its common stock. For additional information about the Company s participation in the CPP, please refer to  U.S. Treasury
Department s Capital Purchase Program Participation , under      V. Management Summary and Business Outlook, 2008 Summary of Significant Events.
        
   11   

Table of Contents  

     Capital Adequacy        The Banks are subject to capital adequacy guidelines adopted by federal banking regulators. For a further discussion of the capital adequacy guidelines, see Item 7  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations Capital Adequacy  and Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 21. The Banks were well capitalized under these guidelines as of December 31, 2008.        Basel II        Implementation of the international accord on
revised risk-based capital rules known as  Basel II  continues to progress in the U.S. Federal banking regulators finalized the  Advanced  version of Basel II in December 2007 and they issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking
for the  Standardized  version in June 2008. Neither version is mandatory for the Company, but the Advanced version could become so due to growth in reported assets. Alternatively, the Company might elect to comply with either
the Advanced or Standardized versions of Basel II in the future. Application of the new capital rules could require us to increase the minimum level of capital that we hold. Compliance might also require a material investment of
resources. We will continue to closely monitor regulators  implementation of the new rules with respect to the large institutions that are subject to it and assess the likely eventual impact to us.        FDICIA        Among other things, the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 ( FDICIA ) requires federal bank regulatory authorities to take  prompt corrective action  ( PCA ) with respect to insured depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital
requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital ratio levels: well-capitalized, adequately-capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized. As of December 31, 2008, each of the Banks met the
requirements for a  well-capitalized  institution. The  well-capitalized  classification is determined solely for the purposes of applying FDICIA s PCA provisions, as discussed below, and should not be viewed as describing
the condition or future prospects of a depository institution, including the Banks. Were any of the Banks to lose their status as  well-capitalized  they could be required to increase capital or lose access to deposits.        Deposits and Deposit Insurance        Each of the Banks, as an
insured depository institution, is a member of the Deposit Insurance Fund ( DIF ) maintained by the FDIC. Through the DIF, the FDIC insures the deposits of insured depository institutions up to prescribed limits for each depositor. The DIF
was formed March 31, 2006, upon the merger of the Bank Insurance Fund and the Savings Association Insurance Fund in accordance with the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 (the  Reform Act ). The Reform Act permits the FDIC
to set a Designated Reserve Ratio ( DRR ) for the DIF. To maintain the DIF, member institutions may be assessed an insurance premium and the FDIC may take action to increase insurance premiums if the DRR falls below its required level.
     The FDIC has issued rules increasing the assessment rates banks pay for deposit insurance in order to restore the deposit insurance fund. The final rules
uniformly raised rates for the first quarter of 2009 by 7 basis points (7 cents for every $100 of deposits), on an annual basis, for all banks. The FDIC also issued proposed rules where future rates would be based on an institution s risk, with
riskier institutions bearing a greater share of the proposed increase. Final rules on the risk-based premium assessment are expected in the first quarter of 2009.      The FDIC is also authorized to terminate a bank s deposit insurance upon a finding by the FDIC that the bank s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has
violated any applicable rule, regulation, order or condition enacted or imposed by the bank s regulatory agency. The termination of deposit insurance for a Bank could have a material adverse effect on its earnings.      The Banks may accept brokered deposits as part of their funding. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 ( FDICIA ), as
discussed in Section X. Capital, only  well-capitalized  and  adequately-capitalized  institutions may accept brokered deposits. Adequately-capitalized institutions, however, must first obtain a waiver from the FDIC before
accepting brokered deposits, and such deposits may not pay rates that significantly exceed the rates paid on deposits of similar maturity from the institution s normal market area or the national rate on deposits of comparable maturity, as
determined by the FDIC, for deposits from outside the institution s normal market area.        FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program   
     On October 14, 2008, the FDIC announced its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program ( TLGP ), which is comprised of the Debt Guarantee Program
( DGP ) and the Transaction Account Guarantee Program ( TAGP ).      The TAGP provides unlimited deposit insurance coverage through
December 31, 2009, for non-interest bearing transaction accounts (including accounts swept from a non-interest bearing transaction account into a non-interest bearing savings deposit account) and  
       
   12   

Table of Contents  

certain interest-bearing accounts (negotiable order of withdrawal (NOW) accounts with interest rates of 0.5 percent or less and lawyers trust accounts) at
FDIC-insured depository institutions. Depository institutions participating in the TAGP will be assessed, on a quarterly basis, an annualized 10 basis points fee on the balance of each covered account in excess of the existing FDIC deposit insurance
limit of $250,000 that was established on a temporary basis by the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008.      The DGP provides an FDIC guarantee of
certain senior unsecured debt of FDIC-insured institutions and their holding companies. The unsecured debt must be issued on or after October 14, 2008 and not later than October 31, 2009, and the guarantee is effective through the earlier
of the maturity date or June 30, 2012. The DGP coverage limit is generally 125% of the eligible entity s eligible debt outstanding on September 30, 2008 and scheduled to mature on or before June 30, 2009 or, for certain insured
institutions, 2% of their liabilities as of September 30, 2008. The proceeds of debt guaranteed under the DGP may not be used to prepay debt that is not guaranteed by the FDIC. Depending on the term of the debt maturity, the nonrefundable DGP
fee ranges from 50 to 100 basis points (annualized) for covered debt outstanding until the earlier of maturity or June 30, 2012.      The TAGP and DGP are
in effect for all eligible entities, unless the entity opted out on or before December 5, 2008. COBNA and CONA are participating in the TAGP. The Corporation, COBNA and CONA remain eligible to participate although the Company has not chosen to
issue any debt under the program in the DGP.        Liability for Commonly-Controlled Institutions        Under the  cross-guarantee  provision of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 ( FIRREA ), insured depository
institutions such as the Banks may be liable to the FDIC with respect to any loss incurred or reasonably anticipated to be incurred, by the FDIC in connection with the default of, or FDIC assistance to, any commonly controlled insured depository
institution. The Banks are commonly controlled within the meaning of the FIRREA cross-guarantee provision.        Subprime Lending Guidelines
       On January 31, 2001, the federal banking agencies issued  Expanded Guidance for Subprime Lending Programs  (the
 Guidelines ). The Guidelines, while not constituting a formal regulation, provide guidance to the federal bank examiners regarding the adequacy of capital and loan loss reserves held by insured depository institutions engaged in
 subprime  lending. The Guidelines adopted a broad definition of  subprime  loans which likely covers more than one-third of all consumers in the United States. Because our business strategy is to provide credit card products and
other consumer loans to a wide range of consumers, we believe that a portion of our loan assets are viewed by the examiners as  subprime.  Thus, under the Guidelines, bank examiners could require COBNA to hold additional capital (from one
and one-half to three times the minimally required level of capital, as set forth in the Guidelines), or additional loan loss reserves, against such assets. As described above, as of December 31, 2008 COBNA met the requirements for a
 well-capitalized  institution. Federal examiners, however, have wide discretion as to how to apply the Guidelines and there can be no assurances that COBNA or CONA may not be required to hold additional regulatory capital against such
assets.      For purposes of the Guidelines, we treat as  subprime  all loans in COBNA s programs that are targeted at customers either with a
Fair, Isaac and Company ( FICO ) score of 660 or below or with no FICO score. COBNA holds on average 200% of the total risk-based capital requirement that would otherwise apply to such assets.        FFIEC Account Management Guidance        On January 8, 2003,
the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council ( FFIEC ) released Account Management and Loss Allowance Guidance (the  Guidance ). The Guidance applies to all credit lending of regulated financial institutions and
generally requires that banks properly manage several elements of their lending programs, including line assignments, over-limit practices, minimum payment and negative amortization, workout and settlement programs, and the accounting methodology
used for various assets and income items related to loans.      We believe that our account management and loss allowance practices are prudent and appropriate
and, therefore, consistent with the Guidance. We caution, however, that similar to the subprime Guidelines, the Guidance provides wide discretion to bank regulatory agencies in the application of the Guidance to any particular institution and its
account management and loss allowance practices. Accordingly, under the Guidance, bank examiners could require changes in our account management or loss allowance practices in the future, and such changes could have an adverse impact on our
financial condition or results of operation.        OCC Minimum Payment Rules        Shortly after conversion of COBNA to a national association, COBNA implemented minimum payment requirements established by the OCC for the credit card industry. The OCC s minimum payment policies are designed to
force modest positive amortization for all card accounts. Under the new policy, the monthly minimum payment is set at 1% of principal balance, plus all interest assessed in the prior cycle, plus any past due fees and certain other fees assessed in
the prior cycle. This compares to the Company s previous policy, which for most accounts is a flat 3% of principal balance. This has had the effect of increasing the minimum payment for delinquent customers, while lowering it for many customers
who are current. Please refer to Section V, Management Summary and Business Outlook, for a discussion of the impact on the Company of compliance with this policy.         
   13   

Table of Contents  

     Privacy and Fair Credit Reporting        The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act ( GLBA ) requires a financial institution to describe in a privacy notice certain of its privacy and data collection practices and requires that customers or consumers, before
their nonpublic personal information is shared with nonaffiliated third parties, be given a choice (through an opt-out notice) to limit the sharing of such information about them with nonaffiliated third persons unless the sharing is required or
permitted under the GLBA as implemented. The Company and the Banks have written privacy notices that are available through the web site of the Company, the relevant legal entity, or both, and are delivered to consumers and customers when required
under the GLBA. In accordance with the privacy notices noted above, the Company and the Banks protect the security of information about their customers, educate their employees about the importance of protecting customer privacy, and allow their
customers to remove their names from the solicitation lists they use and share with others to the extent they use or share such lists. The Company and the Banks require business partners with whom they share such information to have adequate
security safeguards and to abide by the redisclosure and reuse provisions of the GLBA. To the extent that the GLBA and the FCRA require the Company or one or more of the Banks to provide customers and consumers the opportunity to opt out of sharing
information, then the relevant entity or entities provide such options in the privacy notice. In addition to adopting federal requirements regarding privacy, the GLBA also permits individual states to enact stricter laws relating to the use of
customer information. To date, at least California, Vermont and North Dakota have done so by statute, regulation or referendum, and other states may consider proposals which impose additional requirements or restrictions on the Company and/or the
Banks. If the federal or state regulators of the financial subsidiaries establish further guidelines for addressing customer privacy issues, the Company and/or one or more of the Banks may need to amend their privacy policies and adapt their
internal procedures.      Like other lending institutions, the Banks utilize credit bureau data in their underwriting activities. Use of such data is regulated
under the FCRA on a uniform, nationwide basis, including credit reporting, prescreening, sharing of information between affiliates, and the use of credit data. The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (the  FACT Act ), which
was enacted by Congress and signed into law in December 2003, extends the federal preemption of the FCRA permanently, although the law authorizes states to enact identity theft laws that are not inconsistent with the conduct required by the
provisions of the FACT Act. If financial institutions and credit bureaus fail to alleviate the costs and consumer frustration associated with the growing crime of identity theft, financial institutions could face increased legislative/regulatory and
litigation risks. In addition, federal regulators are still in the process of promulgating regulations under the FACT Act; there can be no assurance that such regulations, when enacted, will not have an adverse impact on us.        Investment in the Company and the Banks        Certain acquisitions
of capital stock may be subject to regulatory approval or notice under federal or state law. Investors are responsible for ensuring that they do not, directly or indirectly, acquire shares of capital stock of the Company in excess of the amount
which can be acquired without regulatory approval. Each of the Banks is an  insured depository institution  within the meaning of the Change in Bank Control Act. Consequently, federal law and regulations prohibit any person or company from
acquiring control of the Corporation without, in most cases, prior written approval of the Federal Reserve or the OCC, as applicable. Control is conclusively presumed if, among other things, a person or company acquires more than 25% of any class of
voting stock of the Company. A rebuttable presumption of control arises if a person or company acquires more than 10% of any class of voting stock and is subject to any of a number of specified  control factors  as set forth in the
applicable regulations. Additionally, COBNA and CONA are  bank  within the meaning of Chapter 13 of Title 6.1 of the Code of Virginia governing the acquisition of interests in Virginia financial institutions (the  Financial
Institution Holding Company Act ). The Financial Institution Holding Company Act prohibits any person or entity from acquiring, or making any public offer to acquire, control of a Virginia financial institution or its holding company without
making application to, and receiving prior approval from, the Bureau of Financial Institutions.        Non-Bank Activities        The Company s non-bank subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation by various other federal and state authorities. Insurance agency subsidiaries are
regulated by state insurance regulatory agencies in the states in which they operate. Capital One Agency LLC is a licensed insurance agency that is regulated by the New York State Insurance Department in its home state and by the state insurance
regulatory agencies in the states in which it operates. Capital One Agency LLC provides both personal and business insurance services to retail and commercial clients.      Capital One Asset Management, LLC and Capital One Financial Advisors, LLC are registered investment advisers regulated under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. Capital One Asset Management provides investment advice
to institutions, foundations and endowments, and high net worth individuals.         
   14   

Table of Contents  

   Capital One Investment Services, LLC and Capital One Southcoast Capital, Inc. are registered broker-dealers regulated by
the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The Company s broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to, among other things, net capital rules designed to measure the general financial condition and
liquidity of a broker-dealer. Under these rules, broker-dealers are required to maintain the minimum net capital deemed necessary to meet their continuing commitments to customers and others, and are required to keep a substantial portion of their
assets in relatively liquid form. These rules also limit the ability of broker-dealers to transfer large amounts of capital to parent companies and other affiliates. Broker-dealers are also subject to other regulations covering their business
operations, including sales and trading practices, public offerings, publication of research reports, use and safekeeping of client funds and securities, capital structure, record-keeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees.
       USA PATRIOT Act of 2001        The USA PATRIOT Act of
2001 (the  Patriot Act ) contains sweeping anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws as well as enhanced information collection tools and enforcement mechanisms for the U.S. government, including due diligence requirements for
private banking and correspondent accounts; standards for verifying customer identification at account opening; rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators, and law enforcement in identifying parties that may be involved in
terrorism or money laundering; reporting requirements applicable to the receipt of coins and currency of more than $10,000 in nonfinancial trades or businesses; and more broadly applicable suspicious activity reporting requirements.      The Department of Treasury in consultation with the Federal Reserve and other federal financial institution regulators has promulgated rules and regulations implementing
the Patriot Act that prohibit correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks at U.S. financial institutions; require financial institutions to maintain certain records relating to correspondent accounts for foreign banks; require financial
institutions to produce certain records upon request of the appropriate federal banking agency; require due diligence with respect to private banking and correspondent banking accounts; facilitate information sharing between government and financial
institutions; require verification of customer identification; and require financial institutions to have an anti-money laundering program in place.        Interstate Taxation        Several states have passed legislation which attempts to tax the income from interstate financial activities,
including credit cards, derived from accounts held by local state residents. The Company has accounted for this matter applying the recognition and measurement criteria of FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes, an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,  ( FIN 48 ).        Legislation        Throughout 2007 and 2008, Congress introduced legislation focused on a number of areas related to Capital One s businesses. During the same period, eleven
Congressional hearings were held and numerous legislative proposals introduced on credit card practices. Legislation restricting credit card terms passed the U.S. House of Representatives in September 2008, but did not pass the U.S. Senate.
Concurrently, the Federal Reserve Board issued final rules in December 2008 that address many of the same issues raised by legislators. See  Regulation of Lending Activities  in Item 1. Supervision and Regulation. The effective date of the
regulations is July 1, 2010. Legislation has been introduced in Congress and may potentially be considered in both the U.S. House and the U.S. Senate in 2009 that would impact the implementation period of the Federal Reserve rules or extend
limitations to additional practices.      In 2008, legislation was also introduced to regulate interchange fees. Several hearings were held, but the
legislation was not considered by the full House or by the U.S. Senate. This issue is expected to continue to be debated in Congress in 2009 and also at the state level.      In 2008, Congress also focused on the housing market, looking at both retrospective and prospective solutions. In July 2008, legislation was enacted to create additional federal backstops and strengthen regulation of
the Government Sponsored Enterprises ( GSEs ), including an overhaul of Federal Housing Administration ( FHA ) programs. In October 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act ( EESA ) was enacted, which, among other
things, authorized the U. S. Treasury Department to create a $700 billion Troubled Assets Relief Program ( TARP ) originally created to address troubled mortgage assets. In November 2008, the Treasury approved the Company s
participation in one of the programs implemented under the EESA, the TARP Capital Purchase Program (the  CPP ). Treasury continues to refine the regulations implementing the CPP, and it is unclear at this time what its final form will be.
Additional programs are also being created that utilize TARP monies such as the Federal Reserve s Term Asset Loan Facility ( TALF ).      Under
the EESA the Company is subject to increased Congressional scrutiny, including participating in Congressional hearings and investigations and providing reports to the Treasury Department and the Government Accountability Office ( GAO ) as
well as other entities created under the EESA to provide additional oversight. Congress has shown a strong interest in directing how the monies and programs under the EESA are managed. To this end, the U.S. House of Representatives has passed
legislation addressing a number of terms of the EESA and a number of hearings have been scheduled. Recently Congress passed, and the President signed into law, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act ( ARRA ), which, among other things,
includes additional restrictions for participants in programs under the EESA. Such restrictions include limitations on hiring workers under the H1-B visa program and compliance with new standards to be adopted by the U.S. Treasury relating to the
executive compensation practices of participants in programs under the TARP. The ARRA also includes provisions that would allow the Company to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock that it issued to the U.S. Treasury under the CPP using proceeds other
than those received from a  qualified equity offering  under certain circumstances and with regulator approval. In addition, it is expected that provisions related to mortgage loans and modifications are likely to be forthcoming. For
additional information regarding the Company s participation in the CPP please see Section V, Management Summary and Business Outlook, and Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
  Note 10.      Finally, there have been several proposals in Congress to modify the bankruptcy laws to permit homeowners at risk of foreclosure to modify
their primary mortgages. On October 20, 2008, the President signed the  National Guard and Reservists Debt Relief Act of 2008,  making bankruptcy filings easier for national guardsmen and reservists. Broad bankruptcy legislation also has
been introduced in 2009 that could be seen as creating incentives for consumers to choose Chapter 13 bankruptcy as a primary remedy for mortgage related problems, which could lead to an increase in bankruptcy filings. This legislation passed the
U.S. House in February and now heads to the U.S. Senate for possible consideration.      Please see  Compliance With New and Existing Laws and Regulations
May Increase Our Costs, Limit Our Ability To Pursue Business Opportunities, And Increase Compliance Challenges  under Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of the risks posed to the Company as a result of the current legislative environment.
        
   15   

Table of Contents  

     Sarbanes-Oxley Act Compliance        On July 30, 2002, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act ) was passed into law. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act applies to all companies that are required to file periodic reports with the
Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) and contains a number of significant changes relating to the responsibilities of directors and officers and reporting and governance obligations of SEC reporting companies. In addition, the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act also created the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the  PCAOB ), a private sector, non-profit corporation whose mission is to oversee the auditors of public companies. The PCAOB recommends rulemaking to the SEC
and sets certain standards for the auditors which it oversees. Since the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we have taken a variety of steps that we believe place us in substantial compliance with the effective provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
We continue to monitor SEC rulemaking and PCAOB activities to determine if additional changes are needed to comply with provisions that may become effective in the future. Furthermore, our management has supervised the design of, or has designed,
internal controls and procedures to provide reasonable assurances regarding the reliability of its financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material information regarding the Company is made known to them,
particularly during the period in which this Annual Report on Form 10-K is being prepared and has evaluated the effectiveness of those controls as more fully set forth in  Controls and Procedures  below. We have, in compliance with
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, certified, in connection with this Annual Report on Form 10-K, that we did not discover, during the execution of our internal control processes, any material weaknesses. In addition, our management policy
is to disclose to our auditors and the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board of Directors significant deficiencies, if any, in the design or operation of our internal control over financial reporting that are reasonably likely to adversely affect
our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information, as well as any fraud, whether or not material, by those that have a significant role in these processes.        Regulation of International Business by Non - U.S. Authorities        COBNA faces regulation in foreign
jurisdictions where it currently operates. In the United Kingdom, COBNA operates through the U.K. Bank, which was established in 2000. The U.K. Bank is regulated by the Financial Services Authority ( FSA ) and licensed by the Office of
Fair Trading ( OFT ). The U.K. Bank is an  authorized deposit taker  and thus is able to take consumer deposits in the U.K. The U.K. Bank also has been granted a full license by the OFT to issue consumer credit under the
U.K. s Consumer Credit Act. The FSA requires the U.K. Bank to maintain certain regulatory capital ratios at all times, and it may modify those requirements at any time. Effective January 1, 2008, the U.K. Bank has become subject to new
capital adequacy requirements implemented by the FSA as a result of the U.K. s adoption of the European Capital Requirements Directive, itself an implementation of the Basel II Accord. The U.K. Bank obtains capital through earnings or through
additional capital infusion from COBNA, subject to approval under Regulation K of the rules administered by the Federal Reserve. If the U.K. Bank is unable to generate or maintain sufficient capital on favorable terms, it may choose to restrict its
growth to reduce the regulatory capital required. Following the introduction of the Capital Requirements Directive, the U.K. Bank continues to have a capital surplus and the impact of the new capital regime has been fully factored into the U.K.
Bank s financial and capital planning. In addition, the U.K. Bank is limited by the U.K. Companies Act in its distribution of dividends to COBNA in that dividends may only be paid out of the U.K. Bank s  distributable
profits.       As in the U.S., in non-U.S. jurisdictions where we operate, we face a risk that the laws and regulations that are applicable to us (or the
interpretations of existing laws by relevant regulators) may change in ways that adversely impact our business.      The OFT is investigating Visa s and
MasterCard s current methods of setting interchange fees applicable to U.K. domestic transactions. Cross-border interchange fees are also coming under scrutiny from the European Commission ( EC ), which in December 2007 issued a
decision notice stating that MasterCard s interchange fees applicable to cross border transactions are in breach of European Competition Law. MasterCard has appealed this decision. A similar decision is expected in relation to Visa s cross
border interchange fees. The timing of any final resolution of the matter by EC or OFT is uncertain and it is most unlikely that there will be any determination before the end of 2009. However, it is likely that interchange fees will be reduced,
which could adversely affect the yield on U.K. credit card portfolios.         
   16   

Table of Contents  

   Following a referral by the OFT, the Competition Commission ( CC ) launched a market investigation into the
supply of Payment Protection Insurance ( PPI ) in the U.K. PPI on mortgages, credit cards, unsecured loans (personal loans, motor loans and hire purchase) and secured loans are included. The CC published its final report on remedies
on January 29, 2009, which included point of sale changes and the introduction of an annual PPI statement to customers. All changes will take effect in 2010. The U.K. Bank will likely see an increase in customer
cancellations and complaints beginning in 2009, and will stop selling PPI to new customers in 2010. The U.K. Bank continues to consider alternative products to help mitigate these impacts.      Following the change in the U.S. regulator of COBNA in 2008 to the OCC, U.K. Bank has been included in various discovery examinations by the OCC. Following their visit
to the U.K. Bank in November 2008, the OCC has requested that all U.K. lenders which have a U.S. parent company amend the way in which they calculate the minimum monthly payment requested from customers. The new calculation goes beyond what is
currently required of UK lenders under the Banking Code and other U.K. legislation, and therefore means that the U.K. Bank will be subject to additional regulation over and above its U.K. competitors who are not U.S. owned. The potential exists for
further U.S. legislation to be selectively applied by the OCC to U.K. banks with U.S. parents.      The European Payment Services Directive ( PSD )
aims to harmonize the regulatory regime for payment services across the European Union ( E.U. ). The PSD, which is due to be implemented on November 1, 2009, sets minimum standards for payment services, including new information which
must be provided to consumers and the introduction of new faster execution times for payment transactions. The PSD is intended to allow U.K. payment institutions to significantly expand their markets by offering their services across the E.U. It may
encourage new entrants to the payment arena, in particular for mobile phone technology to be used to enable payments. The changes may also offer benefits to consumers by increasing competition in the market leading to lower prices and a wider choice
of services. The final payment services regulations have not been issued, but the U.K. Bank is exploring its impact given the short time frame for implementation.         Statistical Information       The statistical information required by Item 1 can be found in Item 6
 Selected Financial Data , Item 7  Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and in Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data .       

Item 1A.   
      Risk Factors             This Annual Report on Form 10-K
contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We also may make written or oral forward-looking statements in our periodic reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission on Forms
10-Q and 8-K, in our annual report to shareholders, in our proxy statements, in our offering circulars and prospectuses, in press releases and other written materials and in statements made by our officers, directors or employees to third parties.
Statements that are not about historical facts, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, information relating to our future earnings per
share, growth in managed loans outstanding, product mix, segment growth, tangible common equity, managed revenue margin, funding costs, operations costs, employment growth, marketing expense, delinquencies and charge-offs. Forward looking statements
also include statements using words such as  expect,   anticipate,   hope,   intend,   plan,   believe,   estimate  or similar expressions.      Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including the risks discussed below. Our future
performance and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements. Many of the factors that will determine these results and values are beyond our ability to control or predict. Forward-looking statements speak
only as of the date that they are made, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.      This section highlights specific risks that could affect our business. Although we have tried to discuss all material risks, please be aware that other risks may prove
to be important in the future. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, among the other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward looking statements are the following:       The Current Business Environment, Including the Current Economic Downturn, May Adversely Affect Our Industry, Business, Results Of Operations And Capital Levels  
     The current global recession has resulted in a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, reduced asset values (including
residential and commercial properties), reduced business profits, increased rates of business and consumer delinquency, and increased rates of consumer bankruptcy, some of which have had a negative impact on our results of operation. Continued
economic weakness may hurt our financial performance as customers default on their loans or maintain lower deposit levels, or in the case of credit card accounts, carry lower balances and reduce credit card purchase activity. A prolonged global
recession could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.         
   17   

Table of Contents  

   Furthermore, dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing
foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of
mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to turn to the government for extraordinary financial assistance, to seek additional capital, to merge
with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of credit counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or
eliminated their funding to even the most credit-worthy borrowers or to other financial institutions. The resulting lack of available credit and lack of confidence in the financial markets could materially and adversely affect our access to capital
and financial condition.      In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events:       

Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause declines in credit card usage and adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in
delinquencies and default rates, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations.          

The processes we use to estimate inherent losses may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which
may no longer be capable of accurate estimation, which could have a negative impact on our business.          

Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the criteria and/or models we use to underwrite and manage our customers become less
predictive of future losses, which could cause our losses to rise and have a negative impact on our results of operations.          

Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to engage in securitization or unsecured funding transactions on favorable terms or at all could be
adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, which could limit our access to funding. As a result of these current market conditions,
we have increased our reliance on deposit funding. This shift results in higher levels of owned loan receivables and related increases in our allowance for loan and lease losses.          

Increased charge-offs, rising LIBOR and other events may cause our securitization transactions to amortize earlier than scheduled or increase certain capital
requirements, which could accelerate our need for additional funding or have a significant effect on the ability of certain of our business entities to meet capital adequacy requirements.          

An inability to accept or maintain deposits or to obtain other sources of funding could materially effect our liquidity position and our ability to fund our
business. Many other financial institutions are increasing their reliance on deposit funding, including newly formed bank holding companies and, as such, we expect increased competition in the deposit markets. We cannot predict how this increased
competition will affect our costs. If we are required to offer higher interest rates to attract or maintain deposits, our funding costs will be adversely impacted. In addition, our ability to maintain existing or obtain additional deposits may be
impacted by factors beyond our control, including perceptions about our financial strength, which could lead to consumers choosing not to make deposits with us.          

Regulators, rating agencies or investors could change their standards regarding appropriate capital levels for banks in general or our company in particular. If we
are unable to meet any such new standards, it could have negative impacts on our ability to lend, to grow deposits, and on our business results.          

Increased prepayments, refinancings or other factors could lead to a reduction in the value of our mortgage servicing rights, which could have a negative impact on
our financial results.          Compliance With New And Existing Laws And Regulations May Increase Our Costs, Limit Our Ability To Pursue
Business Opportunities, And Increase Compliance Challenges       There has been increased legislation and regulation with respect to the financial services
industry in recent months, and we expect that oversight of our business will continue to expand in scope and complexity. A wide array of banking, consumer lending, and deposit laws apply to almost every aspect of our business. Failure to comply with
these laws and regulations could result in financial, structural and operational penalties, including receivership. In addition, establishing systems and processes to achieve compliance with these laws and regulations may increase our costs and/or
limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities.      Our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program (the  CPP ) subjects us to
increased oversight by the Treasury Department, regulators and Congress under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 ( EESA ). Congress may adopt further legislation to refine EESA in addition to other efforts to change lending
practices that legislators believe led to the current economic situation. Such legislation could increase governmental oversight of the Company, restrict the Company s lending or governance practices, or both, all of which could negatively
impact our business and revenues.         
   18   

Table of Contents  

   In addition, the Federal Reserve Board recently passed amendments to Regulation AA (Unfair or Deceptive Acts or
Practices) and Regulation Z (Truth in Lending), effective July 1, 2010, which limit or prohibit certain credit card practices and require increased disclosures for consumers. Although the Company has not engaged in many of the practices
prohibited by the amendments, the rules could have a material adverse effect on future revenues in our U.S. credit card business and could make the card business generally less resilient in future economic downturns. In particular, the rules will
prohibit an increase in the interest rates applied to existing credit card balances except in limited circumstances. Likewise, several bills pending before Congress could impact credit card pricing and other terms.      In addition, legislation has been introduced that could enable merchants to negotiate interchange fees, which is the discount on the payment due from the card-issuing
bank to the merchant bank through the interchange network. The future of these bills is uncertain, but each, or additional legislation, could be introduced or reintroduced in 2009. We face similar risks with respect to our international businesses,
where changing laws and regulations may have an adverse impact on our results.      In April 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB )
voted to eliminate Qualifying Special Purpose Entities ( QSPEs ) from the guidance in SFAS 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities. This change could have a significant impact on
the Company s consolidated financial statements because the Company could lose sales treatment for assets previously sold to a QSPE, as well as for future sales. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had approximately $45.9 billion of
credit card receivables held by QSPEs. If the Company is required to hold more of these assets on its balance sheet, the Company could be required to comply with increased regulatory capital requirements and such capital may not be available on
terms favorable to the Company, if at all. If the Company were to fail to comply with any additional capital requirements, it could have a negative impact on our business. Likewise, if the Company is required to hold additional assets on its balance
sheet, the Company may also have to increase its allowance for loan and lease losses to account for potential losses with respect to such assets. If the Company were to increase its allowance for loan and lease losses, it could have a negative
impact on the Company s financial results.      Finally, in January 2009, broad bankruptcy legislation was introduced in Congress that could be seen as
creating incentives for consumers to choose Chapter 13 bankruptcy as a primary remedy for mortgage related problems. Such legislation, if enacted, could result in an increase in bankruptcy filings, which could lead to increased credit losses in
certain of our other lending businesses, such as credit cards and auto finance, and could have an overall negative impact on our results of operation.      Laws and regulations, and any interpretations and applications with respect thereto, generally are intended to benefit consumers, borrowers and depositors, not shareholders. The legislative and regulatory environment is beyond our control,
may change rapidly and unpredictably and may negatively influence our earnings and growth. In addition, some of these new laws and regulations may increase our costs. Our success depends on our ability to maintain compliance with both existing and
new laws and regulations. For a description of the laws and regulations to which we are subject, please refer to Supervision and Regulation in Item 1.       The Capital Markets And Credit Environment Have Experienced Unprecedented Levels Of Volatility, Which Could Have A Negative Impact On Our Business       The capital markets have experienced and are continuing to experience extended volatility and disruption, which has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock price and credit capacity
for issuers without regard to those issuers  underlying financial strength. Such market conditions may limit the Company s ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities, satisfy regulatory capital requirements and access the
capital necessary to maintain and grow our business. As such, the Company may be forced to delay raising capital or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could limit financial flexibility and ultimately jeopardize its overall liquidity and
capital position. In the event the Company needs to preserve its capital levels or raise additional capital, the current level of dividends paid to shareholders may decrease and the price at which additional capital may be raised could be dilutive
to existing shareholders.      Similarly, as a result of the extreme dislocation in the marketplace, the market value of assets in the Company s
investment portfolio has declined, and such decline may be lasting or could become even more severe. Such decline has increased and could continue to increase the Company s unrealized losses, which could have a negative impact on the
Company s capital position.      In response to this market dislocation, the federal government has taken unprecedented government action, including the
various programs implemented by the U.S. Treasury to inject capital into the financial system. However, there is no guarantee that the Treasury s programs will necessarily benefit the financial markets in general or the Company in particular.
In addition, the Company could also be adversely impacted if certain of its competitors are beneficiaries of certain of the government s programs and the Company does not receive comparable assistance. The government may not continue to
intervene in the financial markets, and any governmental intervention may not have a positive impact on the Company s business, financial condition or results of operations.         
   19   

Table of Contents  

    We May Experience Increased Delinquencies And Credit Losses       Like other lenders, we face the risk that our customers will not repay their loans. Rising losses or leading indicators of rising losses (such as higher delinquencies,
non-performing loans, or bankruptcy rates; lower collateral values; rising unemployment rates) may require us to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses, which may degrade our profitability if we are unable to raise revenue or reduce costs
to compensate for higher losses. In particular, we face the following risks in this area:       

Missed Payments . Our customers may miss payments. Loan charge-offs (including from bankruptcies) are generally preceded by missed payments or other
indications of worsening financial condition. Our reported delinquency levels measure these trends. Customers are more likely to miss payments during an economic downturn. In addition, we face the risk that consumer and commercial customer behavior
may change (i.e. an increased unwillingness or inability to repay debt), causing a long-term rise in delinquencies and charge-offs.          

Estimates of inherent losses . The credit quality of our portfolio can have a significant impact on our earnings. We allow for and reserve against credit
risks based on our assessment of credit losses inherent in our loan portfolios. This process, which is critical to our financial results and condition, requires complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be
capable of accurate estimation. We may underestimate our inherent losses and fail to hold a loan loss allowance sufficient to account for these losses. Incorrect assumptions could lead to material underestimates of inherent losses and inadequate
allowance for loan and lease losses. In addition, our estimate of inherent losses impacts the amount of allowances we build to account for those losses. The increase or release of allowances impacts our current financial results.

Underwriting.  Our ability to assess the credit worthiness of our customers may diminish. If the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and
underwrite our consumer and commercial customers become less predictive of future charge-offs (due, for example, to rapid changes in the economy, including the unemployment rate), our credit losses and returns may deteriorate.

Business mix . Our business mix could change in ways that could adversely affect credit losses. We participate in a mix of businesses with a broad range of
credit loss characteristics. Consequently, changes in our business mix may change our charge-off rate.          

Charge-off recognition . The rules governing charge-off recognition could change. We record charge-offs according to accounting and regulatory guidelines and
rules. These guidelines and rules, including the FFIEC Account Management Guidance, could require changes in our account management or loss allowance practices and cause our charge-offs to increase for reasons unrelated to the underlying performance
of our portfolio. Such changes could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operation.          

Mortgage repurchases.  We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that we sell to investors in the event that there was improper underwriting or fraud,
or in the event that the loans become delinquent shortly after they are originated. Typically, loans are put back to originators if they experience delinquencies. Consequently, we may be exposed to credit risk associated with sold loans. We hold a
reserve against this risk, but the reserve may not be adequate.          

Industry practices . Our charge-off and delinquency rates may be negatively impacted by industry developments, including new regulations applicable to our
industry.          

Collateral.  Collateral, when we have it, could be insufficient to compensate us for loan losses. When customers default on their loans and we have
collateral, we attempt to seize it. However, the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to compensate us for the amount of the unpaid loan and we may be unsuccessful in recovering the remaining balance from our customers. Particularly with
respect to our commercial lending and mortgage activities, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans and investments. Thus, the recovery of such property could be insufficient to
compensate us for the value of these loans.          

New York Concentration.  Although our lending is geographically diversified, in general, our commercial loan portfolio is concentrated in the New York
metropolitan area. The regional economic conditions in the New York area affect the demand for our commercial products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay their commercial loans and the value of the collateral securing
these loans. A prolonged decline in the general economic conditions in the New York region could have a material adverse effect on the performance of our commercial loan portfolio and our results of operations.          The Soundness of Other Financial Institutions Could Adversely Affect Us       Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the stability and actions of other financial services institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing,
counterparty and other relationships. We  
       
   20   

Table of Contents  

have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry,
including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients, resulting in a significant credit concentration with respect to the financial services industry overall. As a result,
defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other
institutions.      Likewise, adverse developments affecting the overall strength and soundness of our competitors or the financial services industry as a whole
could have a negative impact on perceptions about the strength and soundness of our business even if we are not subject to the same adverse developments. In addition, adverse developments with respect to third parties with whom we have important
relationships also could negatively impact perceptions about us. These negative perceptions about us could cause our business to suffer and exacerbate the other risks that we face.       Reputational Risk And Social Factors May Impact Our Results       Our ability to originate and maintain accounts is highly
dependent upon the perceptions of consumer and commercial borrowers and deposit holders and other external perceptions of our business practices and/or our financial health. Adverse perceptions regarding our reputation in the consumer, commercial
and funding markets could lead to difficulties in generating and maintaining accounts as well as in financing them. Particularly, negative perceptions regarding our reputation could lead to decreases in the levels of deposits that consumer and
commercial customers and potential customers choose to maintain with us.      In addition, a variety of social factors may cause changes in borrowing activity,
including credit card use, payment patterns and the rate of defaults by accountholders and borrowers domestically and internationally. These social factors include changes in consumer confidence levels, the public s perception regarding
consumer debt, including credit card use, and changing attitudes about the stigma of personal bankruptcy. If consumers develop negative attitudes about incurring debt or if consumption trends continue to decline, our business and financial results
will suffer.       Goodwill Impairment Could Negatively Impact Our Net Income And Stockholders  Equity       Goodwill is not amortized, but is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is an operating segment or one level below an operating segment. Goodwill is
required to be tested for impairment annually and between annual tests if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. There are numerous risks that may
cause the fair value of a reporting unit to fall below its carrying amount, which could lead to the measurement and recognition of goodwill impairment. These risks include, but are not limited to, adverse changes in legal factors or the business
climate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, the loss of key personnel, a more-likely-than-not expectation that all or a significant portion of a reporting unit may be disposed of, failure to realize anticipated synergies from
acquisitions, a sustained decline in the Company s market capitalization, significant negative variances between actual and expected financial results, and lowered expectations of future financial results. The Company recorded $810.9 million of
goodwill impairment in 2008, and as of December 31, 2008, had approximately $12.0 billion of goodwill remaining on its balance sheet. Declines in the Company s market capitalization increase the risk of further goodwill impairment in 2009.
      We Face Intense Competition in All of Our Markets       We
operate in a highly competitive environment, and we expect competitive conditions to continue to intensify. In such a competitive environment, we may lose entire accounts, or may lose account balances, to competing financial institutions, or find it
more costly to maintain our existing customer base. Customer attrition from any or all of our lending products, together with any lowering of interest rates or fees that we might implement to retain customers, could reduce our revenues and therefore
our earnings. Similarly, customer attrition from our deposit products, in addition to an increase in rates and/or services that we may offer to retain those deposits, may increase our expenses and therefore reduce our earnings. We expect that
competition will continue to grow more intensely with respect to most of our products. Some of our competitors may be substantially larger than we are, which may give those competitors advantages, including a more diversified product and customer
base, the ability to reach out to more customers and potential customers, operational efficiencies, more versatile technology platforms, broad-based local distribution capabilities, lower-cost funding, and larger existing branch networks. In
addition, some of our competitors may not be subject to the same regulatory requirements or legislative scrutiny to which we are subject, which also could place us at a competitive disadvantage.       Fluctuations In Market Interest Rates Or The Capital Markets Could Adversely Affect Our Revenue And Expense, The Value Of Assets And Obligations, Our Cost Of Capital
Or Our Liquidity       Like other financial institutions, our business may be sensitive to market interest rate movement and the performance of the financial
markets. Changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact us. First, we borrow money from other institutions and depositors, which we use to make loans to customers and invest in debt securities and
other earning assets.  
       
   21   

Table of Contents  

We earn interest on these loans and assets and pay interest on the money we borrow from institutions and depositors. Fluctuations in interest rates,
including changes in the relationship between short term rates and long term rates and in the relationship between our funding basis rate and our lending basis rate, may have negative impacts on our net interest income and therefore our earnings. In
addition, interest rate fluctuations and competitor responses to those changes may affect the rate of customer pre-payments for auto and other term loans and may affect the balances customers carry on their credit cards. These changes can reduce the
overall yield on our earning asset portfolio. Changes in interest rates and competitor responses to these changes may also impact customer decisions to maintain balances in the deposit accounts they have with us. These changes may require us to
replace withdrawn balances with higher cost alternative sources of funding. In addition, changes in valuations in the debt and equity markets could have a negative impact on the assets we hold in our investment portfolio. Finally, such market
changes could also have a negative impact on the valuation of assets for which we provide servicing.      We assess our interest rate risk by estimating the
effect on our earnings under various scenarios that differ based on assumptions about the direction and the magnitude of interest rate changes. We take risk mitigation actions based on those assessments. We face the risk that changes in interest
rates could reduce our net interest income and our earnings in material amounts, especially if actual conditions turn out to be materially different than those we assumed.      See Item 7  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Interest Rate Risk Management  for additional information.       We May Fail To Realize All Of The Anticipated Benefits Of Our Mergers And Acquisitions       Capital One has engaged in merger and acquisition activity over the past several years. If we are not able to achieve the anticipated benefits of such mergers and acquisitions, including cost savings and other
synergies, our business could suffer. In addition, it is possible that the ongoing integration processes could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls,
procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger or acquisition. Integration efforts also may divert management
attention and resources. These integration matters may have an adverse effect on the Company during any transition period.      Our recent acquisitions also
involve our entry into new businesses and new geographic or other markets which present risks resulting from our relative inexperience in these new areas and/or these new businesses. These new businesses change the overall character of our
consolidated portfolio of businesses and could react differently to economic and other external factors. We face the risk that we will not be successful in these new businesses and/or in these new markets.       We Face Risk Related To The Strength Of Our Operational, Technological And Organizational Infrastructure       Our ability to grow and compete is dependent on our ability to build or acquire the necessary operational and technological infrastructure and to manage the cost of that
infrastructure while we expand and as we integrate acquired businesses. Similar to other large corporations, operational risk can manifest itself in many ways, such as errors related to failed or inadequate processes, faulty or disabled computer
systems, fraud by employees or persons outside of the Company and exposure to external events. We are dependent on our operational infrastructure to help manage these risks. From time to time, we may need to change or upgrade our technology
infrastructure. We may experience disruption, and we may face additional exposure to these risks during the course of making such changes. In addition, as we acquire other institutions, we face additional challenges when integrating different
operational platforms. Such integration efforts may be more disruptive to the business and/or more costly than we anticipate.      In some cases, we outsource
the maintenance and development of our operational and technological functionality to third parties. These third parties may experience errors or disruptions that could adversely impact us and over which we may have limited control. Any increase in
the amount of our infrastructure that we outsource to third parties may increase our exposure to this risk.      In addition, we are heavily dependent on the
strength and capability of our technology systems which we use both to interface with our customers and to manage our internal financial and other systems. Our ability to develop and deliver new products that meet the needs of our existing customers
and attract new ones depends on the functionality of our technology systems. Our ability to develop and implement effective marketing campaigns also depends on our technology. Additionally, our ability to run our business in compliance with
applicable laws and regulations is dependent on these infrastructures. Any disruptions or failures of our infrastructure or technology systems could cause us to be unable to market, manage and report on our products, services and financial results
in a timely and accurate manner.         
   22   

Table of Contents  

    The Company s Business Could Suffer If It Is Unable To Attract, Retain and Motivate Skilled Senior Leaders  
     The Company s success depends, in large part, on its ability to retain key senior leaders, and competition for such senior leaders can be intense in
most areas of the Company s business. The executive compensation provisions of the EESA, including amendments to such provisions implemented under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, are expected to limit the types of
compensation arrangements that the Company may enter into with its most senior leaders upon adoption of implementing standards by the U.S. Treasury These standards, and any further legislation or regulation restricting executive compensation could
have a negative impact on the Company s ability to attract, retain and motivate such leaders in support of the Company s long-term strategy. In addition, many of the companies with which the Company competes for senior talent may not be
subject to such compensation limitations. If we are unable to retain talented senior leadership, our business could suffer.       Certain Of Our Businesses
Are Subject To Increased Litigation Risks       Our credit card business is subject to increased litigation as a result of the structure of the credit card
industry, and we face risks from the outcomes of such industry litigation. Substantial legal liability against the Company could have a material adverse financial effect or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our
business. For a full description of the litigation risks that we face in connection with the structure of the credit card industry, please refer to Industry Litigation in Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   Notes to
the Financial Statements   Note 19.        We Face The Risk Of Fluctuations In Our Expenses And Other Costs That May Hurt Our Financial Results
      Our expenses and other costs, such as operating, labor and marketing expenses, directly affect our earnings results. In light of the extremely
competitive environment in which we operate, and because the size and scale of many of our competitors provide them with increased operational efficiencies, it is important that we are able to successfully manage our expenses. Many factors can
influence the amount of our expenses, as well as how quickly they may increase. Investments in infrastructure, which may be necessary to maintain a competitive business, may increase operational expenses in the short-run. As our business develops,
changes or expands, additional expenses can arise from management of outsourced services, asset purchases, structural reorganization, a reevaluation of business strategies and/or expenses to comply with new or changing laws or regulations.
Integration of acquired entities may also increase our expenses, and we may be less able to predict the operational expenses of newly acquired businesses. In addition, we face the risk that the benefits of the Company s cost savings initiative
may not be fully realized. If we are unable to successfully manage our expenses, our financial results will suffer.       We Face Risks From Unpredictable
Catastrophic Events       Natural disasters or other catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks, may have a negative effect on our business and
infrastructure, including our information technology systems. Due to our banking locations in Louisiana and Texas, we are exposed to hurricanes and related damage; in New York and New Jersey, severe winter weather could impact our operations. The
impact of such events and other catastrophes on the overall economy may also adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.       We Face
Risks From The Use Of Estimates In Our Financial Statements       Pursuant to United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ( US GAAP ),
we are required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including in determining the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If the assumptions or estimates underlying the
Company s financial statements are incorrect, the Company may experience unexpected material losses. For a discussion of how we use estimates in accordance with US GAAP, please refer to Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   Notes to the Financial Statements   Note 1.        

Item 1B.   
      Unresolved Staff Comments.             Not applicable.

Item 2.   
      Properties.             Our real estate portfolio is
used to support all of our business segments. We own the 587,000 square foot headquarters building located at 1680 Capital One Drive in McLean, Virginia. The building houses our executive offices and Northern Virginia staff.      We own approximately 316 acres of land in Goochland County, Virginia which consolidates our Richmond operations and houses various functions (the  West Creek
Campus ). The Company has seven office buildings, a support facility and a training center at the West Creek Campus. Totaling nearly 1.2 million square feet, the West Creek Campus houses multiple business and staff groups. Another 460,000
square feet in office, data and production space is owned in Richmond, Virginia, along with a 344,075 square foot facility in Nottingham, United Kingdom, from which we conduct credit, collections, customer service and other operations.   
  Our businesses also occupy leased space totaling, in the aggregate, approximately 450,000 square feet in locations across Richmond, Virginia and Toronto, Canada.
        
   23   

Table of Contents  

   Our Local Banking segment s office and branch operations are conducted primarily utilizing approximately
3.4 million square feet in owned properties and 3.7 million square feet in leased locations across Louisiana, New Jersey, New York and Texas. Portions of the office portfolio are sub-leased where internal demand permits. Additionally, to
support our mortgage businesses, we lease facilities totaling approximately 261,000 square feet in California and Kansas. Additionally, our Auto Finance sub-segment leases just under 600,000 square feet of leased office space in various locations
including California, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Louisiana, Michigan and Oklahoma with the majority of such space in Texas. An additional 73,000 square feet of leased space in Boston and Framingham, Massachusetts supports other portions of the
National Lending segments.       

Item 3.   
   Legal Proceedings.         The information required by Item 3 is
included in Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 19.        

Item 4.   
   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.         During the
fourth quarter of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2008, no matters were submitted for a vote of our stockholders.         
   24   

Table of Contents  

    PART II        

Item 5.   
      Market for Company s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters.              

(1)  
  Shares purchased represent shares purchased and share swaps made in connection with stock option exercises and the withholding of shares to cover taxes on restricted stock lapses.
The stock repurchase program is intended to comply with Rules 10b5-1(c) (1) (i) and 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. See note 10 for additional information.         Cumulative Shareholder Return       The following graph compares
cumulative total stockholder return on our common stock with the S P Composite 500 Stock Index ( S P 500 Index ) and an industry index, the S P Financial Composite Index ( S P 500 Financials Index ), for the
period from December 31, 2003 to December 31, 2008. The graph assumes an initial investment of $100 in common stock of the specified securities. The cumulative returns include stock price appreciation and assume full reinvestment of
dividends. The stock price performance on the graph below is not necessarily indicative of future performance.     

The remaining information required by Item 5 is included under the following:       

Item 1  
      
   Business Overview   
      
  Page 3   
 
  Item 1  
      
   Business Supervision and Regulation Dividends and Transfers of Funds   
      
  Page 11   
 
  Item 7  
      
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Management   
      
  Pages 28-67   
 
  Item 7  
      
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Capital Adequacy   
      
  Pages 67-69   
 
  Item 7  
      
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Dividend Policy   
      
  Page 69   
 
  Item 8  
      
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   
      
  Pages 79-144   
 
  Item 8  
      
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Selected Quarterly Financial Data   
      
  Page 148-149   
       
   25   

Table of Contents  

Item 6.   
      Selected Financial Data              
       
   26   

Table of Contents  

27   

Table of Contents  

(1)  
  Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation.     

(2)  
  Non-interest bearing deposits for the year 2004 were included in other liabilities.     

(3)  
  Based on continuing operations.     

(5)  
  On December 1, 2006, the Company acquired 100% of the outstanding common stock of North Fork Bancorporation for total consideration of $13.2 billion.     

(6)  
  Discontinued operations related to the shutdown of mortgage origination operations of GreenPoint s wholesale mortgage banking unit in 2007.     

(7)  
  Excludes restructuring expenses and goodwill impairment charges.         

Item 7.   
      Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations              I. Introduction       Capital One Financial Corporation (the
 Corporation ) is a diversified financial services company whose banking and non-banking subsidiaries market a variety of financial products and services. The Corporation s principal subsidiaries are:       

Capital One Bank, (USA), National Association ( COBNA ) which currently offers credit and debit card products, other lending products and deposit
products.          

Capital One, National Association ( CONA ) which offers a broad spectrum of banking products and financial services to consumers, small businesses and
commercial clients.         The Corporation and its subsidiaries are hereafter collectively referred to as the  Company .   
  The Company continues to deliver on its strategy of combining the power of national scale lending and local scale banking. As of December 31, 2008, the Company
had $108.6 billion in deposits and $146.9 billion in managed loans outstanding.      The Company s earnings are primarily driven by lending to consumers
and commercial customers and by deposit-taking activities which generate net interest income, and by activities that generate non-interest income, including the sale and servicing of loans and providing fee-based services to customers. Customer
usage and payment patterns, credit quality, levels of marketing expense and operating efficiency all affect the Company s profitability.      The
Company s primary expenses are the costs of funding assets, provision for loan and lease losses, operating expenses (including associate salaries and benefits, infrastructure maintenance and enhancements, and branch operations and expansion
costs), marketing expenses, and income taxes.         
   28   

Table of Contents  

   During 2008, the Corporation completed several reorganizations and consolidations to streamline operations and regulatory
relationships. On January 1, Capital One Auto Finance Inc. ( COAF ) moved from a direct subsidiary of the Corporation to become a direct operating subsidiary of CONA. In connection with the COAF move, one of COAF s direct
operating subsidiaries, Onyx Acceptance Corporation ( Onyx ), became a direct subsidiary of the Corporation. On March 1, the Corporation converted Capital One Bank from a Virginia-state chartered bank to a national association,
Capital One Bank (USA), National Association ( COBNA ). On March 8, Superior Savings of New England, N.A. ( Superior ) merged with and into CONA. Both COBNA and CONA are primarily regulated by the Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency (the  OCC ). In May 2008, we consolidated the business and operations of two registered broker-dealers, Capital One Securities, LLC (dba Capital One Investments, LLC) and Capital One Investment Services Corporation
(formerly NFB Investment Services Corporation), into Capital One Investments Services Corporation. In addition, in May 2008, we consolidated the business and operations of three insurance agencies, Capital One Agency Corp., GreenPoint Agency, Inc.
and Hibernia Insurance Agency, LLC into Green Point Agency, Inc., which is now known as Capital One Agency LLC.      During the first quarter of 2008, the
Company reorganized its National Lending sub-segments. Segment and sub-segment results have been restated for all periods presented. The National Lending segment consists of the following sub-segments:       

U.S. Card sub-segment which consists of the Company s domestic credit card business, including small business credit cards, and the installment loan
businesses.          

Other National Lending sub-segment which includes the Company s auto finance and international lending sub-segments.         On December 4, 2008, the Company announced its intention to acquire Chevy Chase Bank F.S.B., the largest retail depository institution in the Washington, D.C.
region in a cash and stock transaction valued at approximately $520 million. On February 13, 2009, the Company received approval from the Federal Reserve to acquire all of the shares of Chevy Chase Bank F.S.B. and certain of its subsidiaries.
The Company expects the transaction to close in the first quarter of 2009.      During 2007, Capital One F.S.B. and North Fork Bank merged with and into CONA.
     During 2007, the Company shut down the mortgage origination operations of its wholesale mortgage banking unit, GreenPoint Mortgage
( GreenPoint ), an operating subsidiary of CONA. Additional information can be found in Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 2.    
   II. Critical Accounting Estimates       The Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements contain a summary of the Company s significant accounting policies, including a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements. Several of these policies are considered to be more critical to the portrayal of the
Company s financial condition, since they require management to make difficult, complex or subjective judgments, some of which may relate to matters that are inherently uncertain. Areas with significant judgment and/or estimates or that are
materially dependent on management judgment include: fair value measurements including assessments of other-than-temporary impairments of securities available for sale; determination of the level of allowance for loan and lease losses; valuation of
goodwill and other intangibles; finance charge, interest and fee revenue recognition; valuation of mortgage servicing rights; valuation of representation and warranty reserves; valuation of retained interests from securitization transactions;
recognition of customer reward liability; treatment of derivative instruments and hedging activities; and accounting for income taxes.      Additional
information about accounting policies can be found in Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1.         Fair Value Measurements        Certain financial instruments are reported under generally accepted accounting
principles, or GAAP, at fair value. The estimated fair value of other financial instruments not recorded at fair value must be disclosed. Securities available for sale, derivatives, mortgage servicing rights and retained interest in securitizations
are financial instruments recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. Additionally, from time to time, we may be required to record at fair value other financial instruments on a nonrecurring basis, such as loans held for investment and mortgage
loans held for sale. We include in Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 12  information about the extent to which fair value is used to measure assets and
liabilities, the valuation methodologies used and impact to earnings. Additionally, for financial instruments not recorded at fair value we disclose the estimate of their fair value.      Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  ( SFAS 157 ) for all financial assets and
liabilities and for nonfinancial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis. SFAS 157 defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the
principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. SFAS 157 also establishes a fair value hierarchy which prioritizes the valuation inputs into three broad
levels. Based on the underlying inputs, each fair value measurement in its entirety is reported in one of the three levels. These levels are:       

Level 1   Valuation is based upon quoted prices for identical instruments traded in active markets. Level 1 assets and liabilities include debt and equity
securities traded in an active exchange market, as well as U.S. Treasury securities.            
   29   

Table of Contents  

Level 2   Valuation is based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that
are not active, and model based valuation techniques for which all significant assumptions are observable in the market or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.

Level 3   Valuation is determined using model-based techniques with significant assumptions not observable in the market. These unobservable assumptions
reflect the Company s own estimates of assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques include the use of third party pricing services, option pricing models, discounted cash flow models
and similar techniques.         SFAS 157 requires that valuation techniques maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of
unobservable inputs. When available, we use quoted market prices to measure fair value. If market prices are not available, fair value measurement is based upon models that use primarily market-based or independently-sourced market parameters,
including interest rate yield curves, prepayment speeds, option volatilities and currency rates. When market observable inputs for model-based valuation techniques may not be readily available, we are required to make judgments about assumptions
market participants would use in estimating the fair value of the financial instrument.      The extent of management judgment involved in measuring the fair
value of financial instruments is dependent upon the availability of quoted prices or observable market data. For financial instruments that have quoted prices in active markets or whose fair value is measured using data observable in the market,
there is minimal management judgment involved in measuring fair value. When quoted prices or observable market data is not fully available, management judgment is necessary to estimate fair value. In addition, changes in market conditions may reduce
the availability of quoted prices or observable market data. For example, an increase in dislocation and corresponding decrease in new issuance and trading volumes could result in observable market data becoming unavailable. When market data is not
available, we use valuation techniques with assumptions that management believes other market participants would also use to estimate fair value.      Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted SFAS No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Liabilities  ( SFAS 159 ). SFAS 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and
certain other items at fair value with changes in fair value included in current earnings. The election is made on specified election dates, can be made on an instrument by instrument basis, and is irrevocable. The initial adoption of SFAS 159 did
not have a material impact on the consolidated earnings and financial position of the Company.        Determination of Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses
       The allowance for loan and lease losses is maintained at the amount estimated to be sufficient to absorb probable principal losses, net of
principal recoveries (including recovery of collateral), inherent in the existing reported loan portfolios. The provision for loan and lease losses is the periodic cost of maintaining an adequate allowance. The amount of allowance necessary is based
on distinct allowance methodologies depending on the type of loans which include specifically identified criticized loans, migration analysis, forward loss curves and historical loss trends. In evaluating the sufficiency of the allowance for loan
and lease losses, management takes into consideration many factors including, but not limited to: recent trends in delinquencies and charge-offs including bankrupt, deceased and recovered amounts; forecasting uncertainties and size of credit risks;
the degree of risk inherent in the composition of the loan portfolio; economic conditions; legal and regulatory guidance; credit evaluations and underwriting policies; seasonality; and the value of collateral supporting the loans. To the extent
credit experience is not indicative of future performance or other assumptions used by management do not prevail, loss experience could differ significantly, resulting in either higher or lower future provision for loan losses, as applicable. The
evaluation process for determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses and the periodic provisioning for estimated losses is undertaken on a quarterly basis, but may increase in frequency should conditions arise that would
require the Company s prompt attention. Conditions giving rise to such action are business combinations or other acquisitions or dispositions of large quantities of loans, dispositions of non-performing and marginally performing loans by bulk
sale or any development which may indicate a significant trend.      Commercial and small business loans are considered to be impaired in accordance with the
provisions of SFAS No. 114,  Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan , ( SFAS 114 ) when it is probable that all amounts  
       
   30   

Table of Contents  

due in accordance with the contractual terms will not be collected. Specific allowances are determined in accordance with SFAS 114. Impairment is measured
based on the present value of the loan s expected cash flows, the loan s observable market price or the fair value of the loan s collateral.      For purposes of determining impairment, consumer loans are collectively evaluated as they are considered to be comprised of large groups of smaller-balance homogeneous loans and therefore are not individually evaluated for impairment under
the provisions of SFAS 114.      Troubled debt restructurings ( TDR ) occur when the Company agrees to significantly modify the original terms of a
loan due to the deterioration in the financial condition of the borrower. The Company modified an immaterial amount of loans under TDRs in 2008 and 2007.      As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the balance in the allowance for loan and lease losses was $4.5 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively.        Valuation of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets        As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, goodwill of $12.0 billion and $12.8 billion
and net intangibles of $0.9 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, were included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.      Goodwill and other intangible assets,
primarily core deposit intangibles, reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheet arose from acquisitions accounted for under the purchase method. At the date of acquisition, the Company recorded the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair
value. The excess of the cost of the acquired business over the fair value of the net assets acquired is recorded on the balance sheet as goodwill. The cost includes the consideration paid and all direct costs associated with the acquisition.
Indirect costs relating to the acquisition were expensed when incurred.       Goodwill       In accordance with the requirements of SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , ( SFAS 142 ) goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level, which
is at the operating segment level or one level below an operating segment. Impairment is the condition that exists when the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment annually and
between annual tests if events or circumstances change, such as adverse changes in the business climate, that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying value.      Goodwill is assigned to one or more reporting units at the date of acquisition. The Company s reporting units are Local Banking, U.S. Card, Auto Finance, and
International. The goodwill impairment test, performed at October 1 of each year, is a two-step test. The first step identifies whether there is potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to the carrying amount,
including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the second step of the impairment test is required to measure the amount of any impairment loss.      For the 2008 annual impairment test, the fair value of reporting units was calculated using a discounted cash flow analysis, a form of the income approach, using each
reporting unit s internal five year forecast and a terminal value calculated using a growth rate reflecting the nominal growth rate of the economy as a whole and appropriate discount rates for the respective reporting units. Cash flows were
adjusted as necessary in order to maintain each reporting unit s equity capital requirements. Our discounted cash flow analysis required management to make judgments about future loan and deposit growth, revenue growth, credit losses, and
capital rates. The cash flows were discounted to present value using reporting unit specific discount rates that are largely based on the Company s external cost of equity with adjustments for risk inherent in each reporting unit. Discount
rates used for the reporting units ranged from 10.1% to 14.0%. The key inputs into the discounted cash flow analysis were corroborated with market data, where available, indicating that assumptions used were within a reasonable range of observable
market data.      Based on the comparison of fair value to carrying amount, as calculated using the methodology summarized above, fair value exceeded carrying
amount in the U.S. Card, International, and Local Banking reporting units as of the Company s annual testing date; therefore, the goodwill of those reporting units was considered not impaired, and the second step of impairment testing was
unnecessary. However, all others factors held constant, a 7% decline in the fair value of the Local Banking reporting unit, a 19% decline in the fair value the U.S. Card reporting unit and a 5% decline in the fair value of the International
reporting unit would have caused the carrying amount for those reporting units to be in excess of fair value which would require the second step to be performed. The Auto Finance reporting unit, with a $1.4 billion carrying amount of goodwill,
failed the first step as fair value was less than carrying amount by $909.7 million. The deficit was primarily a result of a reduced estimate of the fair value of the Auto Finance reporting unit due to fourth quarter business decisions to scale back
that business.         
   31   

Table of Contents  

   The Auto Finance reporting unit was required to move to the second step of the goodwill impairment test which is used to
measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step compares the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill to the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill,
an impairment loss is recorded for the excess. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. That is, an entity shall allocate the fair value of a reporting unit
to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit (including any unrecognized intangible assets) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the price paid to acquire the
reporting unit. The excess of the fair value of a reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of goodwill. In the allocation of fair value of the Auto Finance reporting unit to its assets and
liabilities, the Company assigned a $1.5 billion discount to the net carrying amount of its loans, largely due to the lack of liquidity and credit deterioration in the auto securitization market. The Company also assigned a $1.4 billion discount to
the carrying amount of its liabilities, largely due to increased spreads resulting from the credit crisis. Based on the final results of the annual impairment test, a loss of $810.9 million was recognized for the year-ended December 31, 2008.
     As part of the annual impairment test, the Company assessed its market capitalization based on the prior month average market price relative to the
aggregate fair value of its reporting units and determined that any excess fair value in its reporting units at that time could be attributed to a reasonable control premium compared to historical control premiums seen in the industry. During the
fourth quarter of 2008 and continuing into 2009, our stock price, along with the stock prices of others in the financial services industry, declined significantly resulting in a decline in our market capitalization subsequent to our annual goodwill
impairment testing date. As a result of this decline, we reassessed and updated assumptions from our annual testing and concluded that while it is reasonable to consider market capitalization as one indicator of fair value of our reporting units,
the Company does not believe the fourth quarter decline in our market capitalization resulted in any further goodwill impairment in 2008. We believe the fourth quarter 2008 decline in our market capitalization to be primarily attributable to the
current lack of liquidity in the financial markets and to continuing economic deterioration with a corresponding decline in the fair value of the Company s tangible net assets that are also impacted by those factors, as reflected in the fair
value disclosures in Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   Note 12,  instead of a decline in the implied fair value of goodwill. However, we will continue to
regularly monitor declines in our market capitalization in 2009, overall economic conditions and other events or circumstances that might result in an impairment of goodwill in the future.       Other Intangible Assets       Other intangible assets having finite useful
lives are separately recognized and amortized over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of the intangible assets is not recoverable and its carrying amount exceeds its fair
value. There were no impairment losses recognized for other intangible assets during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007.        Revenue
Recognition        The Company recognizes earned finance charges and fee income on credit card loans according to the contractual provisions of the credit
arrangements. When the Company does not expect full payment of finance charges and fees, it does not accrue the estimated uncollectible portion as income (hereafter the  suppression amount ). To calculate the suppression amount, the
Company first estimates the uncollectible portion of credit card finance charge and fee receivables using a formula based on an estimate of future non-principal losses. This formula is consistent with that used to estimate the allowance related to
expected principal losses on reported loans. The suppression amount is calculated by adding any current period change in the estimate of the uncollectible portion of finance charge and fee receivables to the amount of finance charges and fees
charged-off (net of recoveries) during the period. The Company subtracts the suppression amount from the total finance charges and fees billed during the period to arrive at total reported revenue.      The amount of finance charges and fees suppressed were $1.9 billion and $1.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.        Nonperforming Assets        Nonperforming assets include nonaccrual
loans, impaired loans, certain restructured loans on which interest rates or terms of repayment have been materially revised and foreclosed and repossessed assets.      Commercial loans, consumer real estate and auto loans are placed in nonaccrual status at 90 days past due or sooner if, in management s opinion, there is doubt concerning full collectibility of both principal and interest. All other
consumer loans and small business credit card loans are not placed in nonaccrual status prior to charge-off.      For other consumer loans and commercial
loans, the Company places loans in a non-accrual status, which prevents the accrual of further interest income, when a loan reaches a pre-determined delinquency status, generally 90 to 120 days past due.         
   32   

Table of Contents  

   At the time a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, interest and fees accrued but not collected through the end of the
previous quarter are systematically reversed and charged against income. Interest payments received on nonaccrual loans are applied to principal if there is doubt as to the collectibility of the principal; otherwise, these receipts are recorded as
interest income. A loan remains in nonaccrual status until it is current as to principal and interest and the borrower demonstrates the ability to fulfill the contractual obligation.      Upon foreclosure or repossession, loans are adjusted, if necessary, to the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral and transferred to other assets, net of a valuation allowance for selling costs. We estimate
market values primarily based on appraisals when available or quoted market prices on liquid assets.        Valuation of Mortgage Servicing Rights   
     Mortgage servicing rights ( MSRs ) are recognized at fair value when mortgage loans are sold in the secondary market and the right to service
these loans are retained for a fee; changes in fair value are recognized in mortgage servicing and other income. The Company continues to operate the mortgage servicing business and to report the changes in the fair value of MSRs in continuing
operations. To evaluate and measure fair value, the underlying loans are stratified based on certain risk characteristics, including loan type, note rate and investor servicing requirements. Fair value of the MSRs is determined using the present
value of the estimated future cash flows of net servicing income. The Company uses assumptions in the valuation model that market participants use when estimating future net servicing income, including prepayment speeds, discount rates, default
rates, cost to service, escrow account earnings, contractual servicing fee income, ancillary income and late fees. This model is highly sensitive to changes in certain assumptions. Different anticipated prepayment speeds, in particular, can result
in substantial changes in the estimated fair value of MSRs. If actual prepayment experience differs from the anticipated rates used in the Company s model, this difference could result in a material change in MSR value.      As of December 31 2008 and 2007, the MSR balance was $150.5 million and $247.6 million, respectively.        Valuation of Representation and Warranty Reserve        The representation and warranty reserve is available to
cover probable losses inherent with the sale of mortgage loans in the secondary market. In the normal course of business, certain representations and warranties are made to investors at the time of sale, which permit the investor to return the loan
to the seller or require the seller to indemnify the investor for certain losses incurred by the investor while the loan remains outstanding. The evaluation process for determining the adequacy of the representation and warranty reserve and the
periodic provisioning for estimated losses is performed for each product type on a quarterly basis. Factors considered in the evaluation process include historical sales volumes, aggregate repurchase and indemnification activity, and actual losses
incurred. Quarterly changes to the representation and warranty reserve related to GreenPoint are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented.      As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the representation and warranty reserve was $140.2 million and $93.4 million, respectively, of which $122.2 million and $84.5 million were attributable to the discontinued wholesale mortgage
origination business of GreenPoint. respectively.        Valuation of Retained Interests in Securitization Transactions        The Company s retained residual interests in off-balance sheet securitizations are recorded in accounts receivable from securitizations and are comprised of
interest-only strips, retained senior tranches, retained subordinated tranches, cash collateral accounts, cash reserve accounts and unpaid interest and fees on the investors  portion of the transferred principal receivables.      In accordance with SFAS No. 140,  Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities  ( SFAS 140 ), the Company
removes loan receivables from its Consolidated Balance Sheet and records a gain on sale for securitization transactions that qualify as sales ( off-balance sheet securitizations ). The gain is recorded net of transaction costs and is based
on the estimated fair value of the assets sold and assets retained or liabilities incurred. The related receivable is the interest-only strip, which is based on the present value of the estimated future cash flows from excess finance charges and
past-due fees over the sum of the return paid to security holders, estimated contractual servicing fees and credit losses. Retained assets are recorded in accounts receivable from securitizations at estimated fair value. The Company s retained
residual interests are generally restricted or subordinated to investors  interests and their value is subject to substantial credit, repayment and interest rate risks on transferred assets if the off-balance sheet loans are not paid when due.
As such, the interest-only strip and subordinated retained interests are classified as trading assets in accordance with SFAS No. 155,  Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and
140  ( SFAS 155 ), and changes in the estimated fair value are recorded in servicing and securitization income. Additionally, the Company may retain senior tranches in the securitization transactions which are considered to be
investment grade securities and subject to a lower risk of loss. These senior tranches are also recorded in accounts receivable from securitizations at estimated fair value. The Company classifies senior retained tranches as available for sale
securities in accordance with SFAS No. 115,  Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities  ( SFAS 115 ), and changes in the estimated fair value are recorded in other comprehensive income.         
   33   

Table of Contents  

   The fair value of retained interest is highly sensitive to changes in certain assumptions. To the extent assumptions used
by management do not prevail, the estimated fair value of retained interests could be materially impacted.      As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, accounts
receivable from securitization totaled $6.34 billion and $4.72 billion, respectively. This balance consists of retained residual interests that are recorded at estimated fair value and totaled $2.30 billion and $2.26 billion at December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively. The remaining balance relates to cash collections held at financial institutions that are expected to be returned to the Company on future distribution dates and principal collections accumulated for expected maturities
of securitization transactions with a subsequent return of loans receivables.        Recognition of Customer Rewards Liability        The Company offers products, primarily credit cards, that provide program members with various rewards such as airline tickets, free or deeply discounted products or cash
rebates, based on account activity. The Company establishes a rewards liability based on points earned which are ultimately expected to be redeemed and the average cost per point redemption. As points are redeemed, the rewards liability is relieved.
The cost of reward programs is primarily reflected as a reduction to interchange income. The rewards liability will be affected over time as a result of changes in the number of account holders in the reward programs, the actual amount of points
earned and redeemed the actual costs of the rewards, changes made by reward partners and changes that the Company may make to the reward programs in the future. To the extent assumptions used by management do not prevail, rewards costs could differ
significantly, resulting in either a higher or lower future rewards liability, as applicable.      As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the rewards liability
was $1.4 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively.        Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities        The Company utilizes certain derivative instruments to minimize significant unplanned fluctuations in earnings caused by interest rate and foreign exchange rate
volatility. The Company s goal is to manage sensitivity to changes in rates by offsetting the repricing or maturity characteristics of certain assets and liabilities, thereby limiting the impact on earnings. The use of derivative instruments
does expose the Company to credit and market risk. The Company manages credit risk through strict counterparty credit risk limits and/or collateralization agreements.      At inception, the Company determines if a derivative instrument meets the criteria for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  as amended by SFAS
No. 138,  Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities  ( SFAS 133 ). Ongoing effectiveness evaluations are made for instruments that are designated and qualify as hedges. If the derivative does
not qualify for hedge accounting, no assessment of effectiveness is needed by management.        Accounting for Income Taxes        The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes  ( SFAS 109 ), recognizing the current and
deferred tax consequences of all transactions that have been recognized in the financial statements using the provisions of the enacted tax laws. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between the financial reporting
and tax basis of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. The Company adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting
for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,  ( FIN 48 ) effective January 1, 2007.      The
calculation of the Company s income tax provision is complex and requires the use of estimates and judgments. When analyzing business strategies, the Company considers the tax laws and regulations that apply to the specific facts and
circumstances for any transaction under evaluation. This analysis includes the amount and timing of the realization of income tax provisions or benefits. Management closely monitors tax developments in order to evaluate the effect they may have on
its overall tax position and the estimates and judgments utilized in determining the income tax provision and records adjustments as necessary.      The
Company records valuation allowances to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In making this assessment, management analyzes future taxable income, reversing temporary differences and ongoing tax
planning strategies. Should a change in circumstances lead to a change in judgment about the realizability of deferred tax assets in future years, the Company would adjust related valuation allowances in the period that the change in circumstances
occurs, along with a corresponding increase or charge to income.         
   34   

Table of Contents  

   For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, the provision for income taxes on continuing operations was $0.5
billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, and as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the valuation allowance was $67.7 million and $21.3 million, respectively.       III. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements       The Company has various types of off-balance sheet arrangements that we enter into in the ordinary
course of business. Off-balance sheet activities typically utilize special purpose entities ( SPEs ) that may be in the form of limited liability companies, partnerships or trusts. The SPEs raise funds by issuing debt to third party
investors. The SPEs hold various types of financial assets whose cash flows are the primary source of repayment for the liabilities of the SPE. Investors only have recourse to the assets held by the SPE but may also benefit from other credit
enhancements.      The Company s involvement in these arrangements can take many different forms, including securitization activities, servicing
activities, the purchase or sale of mortgage-backed and other asset backed securities in connection with our investment portfolio, and loans to variable interest entities ( VIEs ) that hold debt, equity, real estate or other assets. In
certain instances, the Company also provides guarantees to VIEs or holders of variable interests in VIEs. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 13   Mortgage Servicing
Rights; Note 18   Securitizations; Note 19   Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees; and Note 20   Other Variable Interest Entities for more detail on the Company s involvement and exposure related to off-balance sheet
arrangements.       Special Purpose Entities       A SPE is an
entity in the form of a trust or other legal vehicle designed to fulfill a specific limited need of the company that was initially involved in the organization of the SPE. The primary use of SPEs is to obtain liquidity and favorable capital
treatment by securitizing certain assets of the Company. In a securitization, a company transfers assets to an SPE and receives cash proceeds for the assets that have been transferred upon the issuance of debt and equity instruments, certificates or
other notes of indebtedness. The transferred assets and the related debt issuances are recorded on the balance sheet of the SPE and are not reflected on the company s balance sheet, assuming the transfer satisfies the sale criteria of SFAS 140.
Investors usually have recourse to the assets in the SPE and may also benefit from other credit enhancements, such as a collateral account or overcollateralization in the form of excess assets in the SPE, or from other liquidity guarantees. The SPE
can typically obtain a more favorable credit rating from rating agencies than the transferor could obtain for its own debt issuances, resulting in less expensive financing costs. The SPE may also enter into derivative contracts in order to convert
the yield or currency of the underlying assets to match the needs of the SPE investors, or to limit or change the credit risk of the SPE. The Company may be the provider of certain credit enhancements as well as the counterparty to any related
derivative contracts.       Qualifying SPEs       Qualifying
special purpose entities ( QSPEs ) are a special class of SPEs which are defined in SFAS 140. These SPEs have significant limitations on the types of assets and derivative instruments they may own and may not actively manage their assets
through discretional sales and are generally limited to making decisions inherent in servicing activities and issuance of liabilities. QSPEs are passive entities designed to purchase assets and pass through the cash flows from the transferred assets
to the investors of the QSPE. QSPEs are generally exempt from consolidation by the transferor of assets to the QSPE and any investor or counterparty.      In
April 2008, the FASB voted to eliminate QSPEs from the accounting guidance. On September 15, 2008, the FASB issued exposure drafts to amend SFAS 140 and FASB Interpretation No. 46 (Revised 2003),  Consolidation of Variable Interest
Entities  ( FIN 46(R) ). The two proposed Statements would significantly change accounting for transfers of financials assets, due to elimination of the concept of a QSPE, and would change the criteria for determining whether to
consolidate a VIE. The proposals are currently in a public comment period and are subject to change. As the proposals stand, however, the change would have a significant impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements as a result of
the loss of sales treatment for assets previously sold to a QSPE, as well as for future sales. As of December 31, 2008, the total assets of QSPEs to which the Company has transferred and received sales treatment were $45.9 billion.   
   Variable Interest Entities       VIEs are entities defined in FIN
46(R), and are entities that have either a total equity investment that is insufficient to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support or whose equity investors lack the characteristics of a
controlling financial interest (i.e.,  
       
   35   

Table of Contents  

ability to make significant decisions through voting rights, right to receive the expected residual returns of the entity, and obligation to absorb the
expected losses of the entity). Investors that finance the VIE through debt or equity interests, or other counterparties that provide other forms of support, such as guarantees, subordinated fee arrangements, or certain types of derivative
contracts, are variable interest holders in the entity. The variable interest holder, if any, that will absorb a majority of the entity s expected losses, receive a majority of the entity s expected residual returns, or both, is deemed to
be the primary beneficiary and must consolidate the VIE. Consolidation under FIN 46(R) is based on expected losses and residual returns, which consider various scenarios on a probability-weighted basis. Consolidation of a VIE is determined based
primarily on variability generated in scenarios that are considered most likely to occur, rather than based on scenarios that are considered more remote. Certain variable interests may absorb significant amounts of losses or residual returns
contractually, but if those scenarios are considered very unlikely to occur, they may not lead to consolidation of the VIE.      All these facts and
circumstances are taken into consideration when determining whether the Company has variable interest that would deem it to be the primary beneficiary and require consolidation of the VIE or otherwise rise to the level where disclosure would provide
useful information to the users of the Company s financial statements. In some cases, it is qualitatively clear based on the extent of the Company s involvement or the seniority of its investments that the Company is not the primary
beneficiary of the VIE. In other cases, a more detailed and quantitative analysis may be required to make such a determination.       Securitization
Activities       The securitization of loans has been a significant source of liquidity for the Company. The Company typically uses QSPEs to securitize its
credit card loans. QSPEs are generally exempt from consolidation by the transferor of assets to the QSPE and any investor or counterparty.       Recourse Exposure       The Company retains residual interests in the trusts as credit enhancements to support the credit quality
of the receivables transferred to the trust. The Company s retained residual interests are generally restricted or subordinated to investors  interests and their value is subject to substantial credit, repayment and interest rate risks on
the transferred financial assets. The value of the retained residual interests represents the Company s only exposure to loss resulting from its continuing involvement in the trusts. The investors and the trusts have no recourse to the
Company s assets if the off-balance sheet loans are not paid when due. The Company has not provided any financial or other support during the periods presented that it was not previously contractually required to provide. The Company s
retained residual interests in the off-balance sheet securitizations are recorded in accounts receivable from securitizations and are comprised of interest-only strips, retained senior tranches, retained subordinated interests, cash collateral
accounts, cash reserve accounts and unpaid interest and fees on the investors  portion of the transferred principal receivables. See Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements Note 18  for quantitative information regarding retained interests.       Collections and Amortization    
  Collections of interest and fees received on securitized receivables are used to pay interest to investors, servicing and other fees, and are available
to absorb the investors  share of credit losses. Amounts collected in excess of that needed to pay the above amounts are remitted, in general, to the Company. Under certain conditions, some of the cash collected may be retained to ensure future
payments to investors. See Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 18  for quantitative information regarding revenues, expenses and cash flows that arise from
securitization transactions.      Maturity terms of the existing securitizations vary from 2009 to 2025 and, for revolving securitizations, have
accumulation periods during which principal payments are aggregated to make payments to investors. As payments on the loans are accumulated and are no longer reinvested in new loans, the Company s funding requirements for loans increase
accordingly. The Company believes that it has the ability to continue to utilize securitization arrangements as a source of liquidity; however, a significant reduction, termination or change in sale accounting for the Company s off-balance
sheet securitizations could require the Company to draw down existing liquidity and/or to obtain additional funding through the issuance or recognition of secured borrowings or unsecured debt, the raising of additional deposits or the slowing of
asset growth to offset or to satisfy liquidity needs.      Securitization transactions may amortize earlier than scheduled due to certain early amortization
triggers, which could require the Company to fund spread accounts, reduce the value of its retained residual interests and ultimately require the off-balance sheet loans to be recorded on the Company s balance sheet and accelerate the need for
alternative funding. Additionally, early amortization of securitization structures would require the Company to record higher reserves for loan losses and would also have a significant impact on the ability of the Company to meet regulatory capital
adequacy requirements. As of December 31, 2008, no early amortization events related to the Company s off-balance sheet securitizations have occurred.         

   36   

Table of Contents  

   The amounts of investor principal from off-balance sheet loans as of December 31, 2008 that are expected to amortize
into the Company s loans, or be otherwise paid over the periods indicated, are summarized in Table 12. Of the Company s total managed loans, 31% and 33% were included in off-balance sheet securitizations for the years ended
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.       Servicing Activities       The Company services mortgage loans that have been sold through either whole loan sales or securitizations with servicing retained. MSRs, are recognized when mortgage loans are sold in the secondary market and the
right to service these loans are retained for a fee, and are carried at fair value; changes in fair value are recognized in mortgage servicing and other. The Company may enter into derivatives to economically hedge changes in fair value of MSRs. The
Company typically does not have any continuing involvement other than its right to service the loans and the Company does not hold subordinate residual interests or enter into other guarantees or liquidity agreements with these structures. The
Company records the MSR at estimated fair value and has no other loss exposure over and above the recorded fair value. See Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note
13  for quantitative information regarding MSRs.       Community Development Activities       As part of its community reinvestment initiatives, the Company invests in private investment funds that make investments in common stock of VIEs or provide debt financing
to VIEs to support multi-family affordable housing properties. The Company receives affordable housing tax credits for these investments. The activities of these entities are financed with a combination of invested equity capital and debt. The
Company is not required to consolidate these entities because it does not absorb the majority of the entities  expected losses nor does it receive a majority of the entities  expected residual returns. The Company records its interests in
these unconsolidated VIEs in loans held for investment, other assets and other liabilities. The Company s maximum exposure to these entities is limited to its variable interests in the entities and the creditors of the VIEs have no recourse to
the general credit of the Company. The Company has not provided additional financial or other support during the period that it was not previously contractually required to provide. See Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 20  for quantitative information regarding Other Variable Interest Entities.      The
Company holds variable interests in entities ( Investor Entities ) that invest in community development entities ( CDEs ) that provide debt financing to businesses and non-profit entities in low-income and rural communities.
Investments of the consolidated Investor Entities are also variable interests of the Company. The activities of the Investor Entities are financed with a combination of invested equity capital and debt. The activities of the CDEs are financed solely
with invested equity capital. The Company receives federal and state tax credits for these investments. The Company consolidates the VIEs of which it absorbs the majority of the entities  expected losses or receives a majority of the
entities  expected residual returns. The assets of the entities consolidated by the Company at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 were approximately $189.7 million and $102.1 million, respectively. The assets and liabilities of
these consolidated VIEs were recorded in cash, loans held for investment, interest receivable, other assets and other liabilities. In addition to the amounts above, the Company had involvement with entities where we held a significant variable
interest in the VIE but were not deemed to be the primary beneficiary as the Company would not absorb the majority of expected losses or receive a majority of the expected residual returns. Accordingly, these entities were not consolidated by the
Company. The assets of the entities that the Company held a significant variable interest in but was not required to consolidate at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 were approximately $46.6 million and $12.0 million, respectively.
The Company records its interests in these unconsolidated VIEs in loans held for investment and other assets. The Company s maximum exposure to these entities is limited to its variable interests in the entities. The creditors of the VIEs have
no recourse to the general credit of the Company. The Company has not provided additional financial or other support during the period that it was not previously contractually required to provide. See Item 8  Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 20  for quantitative information regarding Other Variable Interest Entities.         
   37   

Table of Contents  

    Trust Preferred Securities       The Company has raised financing through the issuance of trust preferred securities. In these transactions, the Company forms a statutory business trust and owns all of the voting equity shares of the trust. The trust issues preferred
equity securities to third-party investors and invests the gross proceeds in junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures issued by the Company. These trusts have no assets, operations, revenues or cash flows other than those related to the
issuance, administration, and repayment of the preferred equity securities held by third-party investors. These trusts  obligations are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the Company.      Because the sole asset of the trust is a receivable from the Company, the Company is not permitted to consolidated the trusts under FIN 46R, even though the Company owns
all of the voting equity shares of the trust, has fully guaranteed the trusts  obligations, and has the right to redeem the preferred securities in certain circumstances. The Company recognizes the subordinated debentures on its balance sheet
as long-term liabilities. See Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 8  for quantitative information regarding Deposits and Other Borrowings.       IV. Reconciliation to GAAP Financial Measures       The Company s
consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ( GAAP ) are referred to as its  reported  financial statements. Loans included in securitization
transactions which qualify as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company s  reported  balance sheet. However, servicing fees, finance charges, and other fees, net of charge-offs, and interest paid to investors of
securitizations are recognized as servicing and securitizations income on the  reported  income statement.      The Company s
 managed  consolidated financial statements reflect adjustments made related to effects of securitization transactions qualifying as sales under GAAP. The Company generates earnings from its  managed  loan portfolio which
includes both the on-balance sheet loans and off-balance sheet loans. The Company s  managed  income statement takes the components of the servicing and securitizations income generated from the securitized portfolio and distributes
the revenue and expense to appropriate income statement line items from which it originated. For this reason, the Company believes the  managed  consolidated financial statements and related managed metrics to be useful to stakeholders.
     As of and for the year ended December 31, 2008       

(2)  
  The managed loan portfolio does not include auto loans which have been sold in whole loan sale transactions where the Company has retained servicing rights.

(3)  
  Based on continuing operations.         V. Management Summary and Business
Outlook         Management Summary        The following
discussion provides a summary of 2008 results compared to 2007 results and 2007 results compared to 2006 results on a continuing operations basis, unless otherwise noted. Each component is discussed in further detail in subsequent sections of this
analysis. The results of the Company s mortgage origination operations of GreenPoint, which was acquired as part of the North Fork Bancorporation acquisition in December 2006, are accounted for as discontinued operations.         
   38   

Table of Contents  

     Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007        The Company had a net loss of $46.0 million, or $(0.21) per share (diluted) for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to net income of $1.6 billion, or $3.97
per share (diluted) for the year ended December 31, 2007. Net loss for 2008 included an after-tax loss from discontinued operations of $130.5 million, or $(0.35) per share (diluted), compared to an after-tax loss from discontinued operations of
$1.0 billion, or $(2.58) per share (diluted) in 2007.      Income from continuing operations for 2008 was $84.5 million, a decrease of $2.5 billion, or 96.7%
from $2.6 billion in 2007. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for 2008 was $0.14, a decrease of 97.9% from $6.55 in 2007.       2008
Summary of Significant Events        U.S. Economic Recession and Credit Deterioration       The U.S. economic recession has impacted the Company in multiple ways during the year. Most notably we have seen significant deterioration in credit performance. As the recession deepened, the Company responded by
fortifying its balance sheet, exiting the riskiest areas we operated in and reducing costs as appropriate. The following demonstrates how the U.S. economic recession and credit deterioration, and the Company s actions to anticipate and respond
to economic worsening, have impacted the Company:       

Increased managed charge-off rate and managed delinquency rate by 147 basis points and 62 basis points, respectively, to 4.35% and 4.49%, respectively,

Increased the allowance for loan and lease losses by $1.6 billion to $4.5 billion, increasing the coverage ratio of allowance as a percentage of loans held for
investment by 157 basis points to 4.48%,          

Increased our provision for loan and lease losses by $2.5 billion to $5.1 billion,          

Reduced the fair value of the interest-only strips by $224.8 million,          

Revenue suppression, which is the amounts billed to customers but not recognized as revenue, increased to $1.9 billion from $1.1 billion,

Experienced a $4.4 billion reduction in managed loans held for investment, due to weaker spending and loan demand from credit-worthy customers, tightening
underwriting, an exit from lending activities not resilient to the economic downturn and an increase in charge-offs,          

Deposit growth was primarily invested in high-quality agency mortgage backed securities and AAA-rated securities backed by consumer loans. Increasing our securities
available for sale by $11.2 billion to $31.0 billion.          U.S. Treasury Department s Capital Purchase Program Participation  
     On November 14, 2008 the Company entered into an agreement (the  Securities Purchase Agreement ) to issue 3,555,199 Fixed Rate Cumulative
Perpetual Preferred Shares, Series A, par value $0.01 per share (the  Series A Preferred Stock ), to the United States Department of the Treasury ( U.S. Treasury ) as part of the Company s participation in the U.S.
Treasury s Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program ( CPP ), having a liquidation amount per share equal to $1,000. The Series A Preferred Stock pays cumulative dividends at a rate of 5% per year for the first five
years and thereafter at a rate of 9% per year. The Company may not redeem the Series A Preferred Stock during the first three years except with the proceeds from a  qualified equity offering.  The ARRA includes provisions that would
allow the Company to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock using proceeds other than those received from a  qualified equity offering  under certain circumstances and with regulatory approval. After three years, the Company may, at its
option, redeem the Series A Preferred Stock at the liquidation amount plus accrued and unpaid dividends. The Series A Preferred Stock is generally non-voting.      In addition, the Company issued Warrant to purchase 12,657,960 of the Company s common shares to the U.S. Treasury as part of the Securities Purchase Agreement. The Warrant have an exercise price of $42.13 per share. The Warrant expire
ten years from the issuance date. If, on or prior to December 31, 2009, the Company receives aggregate gross cash proceeds of not less than the purchase price of the Series A Preferred Stock from one or more  qualified equity
offerings  announced after October 13, 2008, the number of shares of common stock issuable pursuant to the U.S. Treasury s exercise of the Warrant will be reduced by one-half of the original number of shares, taking into account all
adjustments, underlying the Warrant. Pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement, the U.S. Treasury has agreed not to exercise voting power with respect to any shares of common stock issued upon exercise of the Warrants.      The Company received proceeds of $3.55 billion for the Series A Preferred Stock and the Warrant. The Company allocated the proceeds based on a relative fair value basis
between the Series A Preferred Stock and the Warrant, recording $3.06 billion and $491.5 million, respectively. The fair value of the preferred stock was estimated using independent quotes from third party sources who considered the structure,
subordination and size of the preferred stock issuance in comparison to the trust preferred securities issued by special purpose trusts established by the Company. Fair value of the stock warrant was estimated using a pricing model with the most

39   

Table of Contents  

significant assumptions being the forward dividend yield and implied volatility of the Company s stock price. The $3.06 billion of Series A Preferred
Stock is net of a discount of $491.5 million. The discount will be accreted to the $3.55 billion liquidation preference amount over a five year period. The accretion of the discount and dividends on the preferred stock reduce net income available to
common shareholders.      The Company is subject to a number of restrictions as a result of participation in the CPP. Among these are restrictions on dividend
payments to common shareholders and restrictions on share repurchases. If the Series A Preferred Stock has not been redeemed by November 14, 2011 or the U.S. Treasury has not transferred the Series A Preferred Stock to a third party, the
consent of the U.S Treasury will be required to (1) declare or pay any dividend or make any distribution on the Company s common stock (other than regular quarterly cash dividends of not more than $0.375 per share of common stock) or
(2) redeem, purchase or acquire any shares of our common stock or other equity or capital securities, other than in connection with benefit plans consistent with past practice and certain other circumstances specified in the Securities Purchase
Agreement.      The Company is considered  well-capitalized  under the applicable capital adequacy guidelines and did not need to participate in the
CPP. However, the Company concluded, following careful analysis and consultation with regulators, that the CPP was an important step in supporting the financial and economic stability of the U.S. and that the U.S. Treasury s investment provided
an attractive alternative source of capital which we can use for the benefit of our customers and investors.       OCC Minimum Payment Rules    
  In March 2008, COBNA converted from a Virginia state-charted bank to a national association, which is regulated by the OCC. The OCC has minimum payment policies for
the credit card industry designed to force modest positive amortization for all card accounts.      Under the new policy, the monthly minimum payment is set at
1% of principal balance, plus all interest assessed in the prior cycle, plus any past due fees and certain other fees assessed in the prior cycle. This compares to the Company s previous policy, which for most accounts was a flat 3% of
principal balance. This will have the effect of increasing the minimum payment for delinquent customers, while lowering it for many customers who are current.      The Company has converted substantially all accounts to comply with OCC minimum payment policies as of year end.       Secondary Equity Offering
      On September 30, 2008, the Company was able to take advantage of favorable market conditions and raised $760.8 million through the issuance of
15,527,000 shares of common stock at $49.00 per share.       Goodwill Impairment       During the fourth quarter of 2008 the Company recorded an impairment to goodwill of $810.9 million. The impairment was recorded in the Auto Finance sub-segment. See Section II Critical Accounting Estimates,
  Valuation of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets   for additional information .        Sale of MasterCard Shares       During the second quarter of 2008, the Company recognized a gain of $44.9 million in other non-interest income from the sale of 154,991 shares of MasterCard class B
common stock.       Visa IPO       During the first quarter of
2008, Visa completed an initial public offering ( IPO ) of its stock. With IPO proceeds Visa established an escrow account for the benefit of member banks to fund certain litigation settlements and claims. As a result, in the first quarter
of 2008, the Company reduced its Visa-related indemnification liabilities of $90.9 million recorded in other liabilities with a corresponding reduction of other non-interest expense. In addition, the Company recognized a gain of $109.0 million in
non-interest income for the redemption of 2.5 million shares related to the Visa IPO. Both items were included in the Other segment.         
   40   

Table of Contents  

    Debt Refinancing       During the first quarter of 2008, the Company repurchased approximately $1.0 billion of certain senior unsecured debt, recognizing a gain of $52.0 million in non-interest income. The Company initiated the repurchases to take advantage of
the current market environment and replaced the repurchased debt with lower-rate unsecured funding.       Chevy Chase Bank Acquisition       On December 4, 2008, the Company announced its intention to acquire Chevy Chase Bank F.S.B., the largest retail depository institution in the Washington, D.C. region
in a cash and stock transaction valued at approximately $520 million. On February 13, 2009, the Company received approval from the Federal Reserve to acquire all of the shares of Chevy Chase Bank F.S.B. and certain of its subsidiaries. The
Company expects the transaction to close in the first quarter of 2009.      The Company expects the acquisition to be accretive to operating earnings per share
in 2009 and accretive to GAAP earnings per share in 2010. The Company expects to incur approximately $225 million of merger and integration costs and achieve a reduction in non-interest costs of $125 million as a result of the acquisition. The
Company anticipates taking a fair value mark of approximately $1.75 billion for expected losses on the Chevy Chase Bank loan portfolio.        Year Ended
December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006        Net income was $1.6 billion, or $3.97 per share (diluted) for 2007, compared
to $2.4 billion, or $7.62 per share (diluted) for 2006. Net income for 2007 included an after-tax loss from discontinued operations of $1.0 billion, or $2.58 per share (diluted), compared to an after-tax loss from discontinued operations of $11.9
million, or $0.03 per share (diluted) in 2006.      Income from continuing operations for 2007 was $2.6 billion, an increase of $165.3 million, or 7% from
2006. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for 2007 was $6.55, a decrease of 14% from $7.65 in 2006.      Results from continuing operations
for 2007 include:       

The impact of a full year of results of operations from the North Fork Bank acquisition which was completed on December 1, 2006 and the dilutive impact on
earnings per share of the 103.8 million incremental shares issued in December 2006 related to the acquisition.          

Net interest income and non-interest income growth driven mainly by selective pricing and fee changes in the U.S. Card portfolio.          

Provision for loan and lease losses increase due to the continued normalization of consumer credit following the unusually favorable credit environment in 2006,
adverse delinquency and charge-off trends in our National Lending businesses and the increase in our coverage ratio in allowance to loans held for investment as a result of economic weakening in the latter part of 2007, as evidenced by increased
delinquencies and consistent with recently released economic indicators.          

Restructuring charges of $138.2 million resulting from the Company s broad-based initiative announced during the second quarter of 2007 to reduce expenses and
improve its competitive cost position.          

Legal liabilities and reserves of $138.9 million in connection with the Visa antitrust lawsuit settlement with American Express and estimated possible damages in
connection with other pending Visa litigation.          

The impact of the Company s $3.0 billion share repurchase program completed in 2007.          

Moderate loan (held for investment) growth primarily attributable to the acquisition of North Fork in December 2006, offset somewhat by a portfolio sale related to
a co-branded credit card partnership during first quarter 2007 and our significant pull back from prime revolver marketing in the U.S. Card sub-segment.          

Moderate deposit decrease attributable to deliberate funding decisions including a shift from higher cost brokered deposits and public funds to lower cost funding
options. Deposits were $83.0 billion at December 31, 2007, down $2.8 billion, or 3% from December 31, 2006.          2007 Summary of
Significant Events        Shut Down of Mortgage Origination Operations of Wholesale Mortgage Banking Unit       Additional information can be found in Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note
2.          
   41   

Table of Contents  

    Restructuring Charges Associated with Cost Initiative       During the second quarter of 2007, we announced a broad-based initiative to reduce expenses and improve our competitive cost position. We recognized $138.2 million in
restructuring charges in 2007. Additional information can be found in Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 14 .       Share Repurchase       During 2007, we executed a $3.0 billion stock
repurchase program, resulting in a net share retirement of 43,717,110 shares. Additional information can be found in Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note
10 .       Litigation Settlements and Reserves       During
the fourth quarter of 2007, we recognized a pre-tax charge of $79.8 million for liabilities in connection with the antitrust lawsuit settlement with American Express. Additionally, we recorded a legal reserve of $59.1 million for estimated possible
damages in connection with other pending Visa litigation, reflecting our share of such potential damages as a Visa member. Additional information can be found in Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements Note 19  and Part 1, Item 3.   Legal Proceedings .         Sale of Interest in Spain  
     During 2007, the Company completed the sale of its interest in a relationship agreement to develop and market consumer credit products in Spain and
recorded a net gain related to this sale of $31.3 million consisting of a $41.6 million increase in non-interest income partially offset by a $10.3 million increase in non-interest expense.       Gain on Sale of MasterCard Shares       As a result of MasterCard s
IPO in 2006, Capital One owned class B shares of MasterCard common stock, with sale restrictions that were originally scheduled to expire on May 31, 2010. In 2007 shareholders approved an amendment to the MasterCard Certificate of Incorporation
that provides for an accelerated conversion of class B common stock into class A common stock. The MasterCard Board of Directors approved a conversion window running from August 4 to October 5, 2007, during which time owners of class B
shares may voluntarily elect to convert and sell a certain number of their shares. During the conversion period, Capital One elected to convert and sell 300,482 shares of MasterCard class B common stock. The Company recognized gains of $43.4 million
on these transactions in non-interest income.       Gain on Sale of Equity Interest in DealerTrack       In 2001 we acquired a 7% stake in the privately held company DealerTrack, a leading provider of on-demand software and data solutions for the automotive retail industry.
DealerTrack went public in 2005. During the first quarter of 2007 we sold our remaining interest of 1,832,767 shares for $52.2 million resulting in a pre-tax gain of $46.2 million in non-interest income.       Senior Note Issuance       During the third quarter 2007, we closed the
public offering of $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of our Senior Notes Due 2017 (the  Notes ). The Notes were issued pursuant to a Senior Indenture dated as of November 1, 1996 (the  Indenture ) between the
Corporation and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (as successor to Harris Trust and Savings Bank), as Indenture Trustee. Proceeds from the sale of the notes will be used for general corporate purposes, which may include repurchases of shares
of our common stock. Additional information can be found in Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 8  and Part 2, Item 7, Section VIII.   Liquidity
and Funding .         Acceleration of Equity Awards       During the second quarter of 2007, a charge of $39.8 million was taken against salaries and associate benefits. This charge was taken as a result of the accelerated vesting of equity awards in conjunction with the transition of the Banking
leadership team, consistent with the terms of the awards. This charge is not included as a restructuring charge associated with our 2007 cost initiative.       Income Taxes       We recognized a $69.0 million one-time tax benefit in the second quarter of 2007 resulting from previously unrecognized tax
benefits related to our international tax position. In addition, we recognized a $29.7 million reduction in retained earnings associated with the adoption of FIN 48 in 2007.         
   42   

Table of Contents  

     Business Outlook        The statements contained in this section are based on our current expectations regarding the Corporation s 2009 financial results and business strategies. Certain statements are forward looking statements within the meaning of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially from those in our forward looking statements. Factors that could materially influence results are set forth throughout this section and in Item 1A
 Risk Factors .        2009 Expectations        The Company expects continued pressure on profitability as deteriorating global economic conditions continue to have an impact on credit performance and require the Company to increase its provision for loan losses.       Credit:        

As of December 31, 2008, the Company s allowance is consistent with an outlook for $8.6 billion of managed losses in 2009. This loss outlook assumes that
the U.S. unemployment rate increases to around 8.7% by the end of 2009, and that home prices, as measured by the Case-Schiller 20-City Index, decline by an additional 10 percentage points by the end of 2009.          

The Company expects 2009 provision expense levels to be higher than 2008 provision expense levels.          

In addition to the effects of the weakening economy, the Company expects that in 2009 the charge-off rate in the U.S. Card sub-segment will be adversely impacted by
(i) continuing pressure from the unsecured closed-end loans included in the U.S. Card sub-segment; and (ii) from the implementation of the OCC minimum payment policies. The Company expects that the conversion to the OCC minimum payment
policies will increase the U.S. Card charge-off rate by approximately 10 basis points in the first quarter of 2009, and by approximately 50 basis points in subsequent quarters of 2009. The Company expects that the impact of the new minimum payment
policies on the Company s charge-off levels will begin to subside in 2010 as customers adjust to the new policies. The impact of the new policies has been factored into the Company s expectations for charge-off levels in the U.S. Card
sub-segment, as discussed above, and in the Company s outlook for total company managed charge-off dollars for the next twelve months associated with the allowance for loan and lease losses.          

The Company expects that the charge-off rate in the U.S. Card sub-segment will be around 8.1% in the first quarter of 2009.          Earning Assets:  The Company expects that new loan originations, reduced by weakening demand from credit worthy borrowers, will not be sufficient to offset rising
charge-offs, normal amortization and attrition, and weaker credit card spending. As a result, the Company expects a decline in managed loans. We expect that the decline in earning assets will be more modest, resulting in a continuing shift from
loans to high-quality investment securities backed by mortgage and consumer loans.       Deposit Growth:  The Company expects deposits in the Local
Banking segment to grow in 2009. The Company also expects to continue to maintain disciplined pricing and deposit margins in 2009.       Revenue Margin: 
The Company expects a modest decline in 2009 revenue margin as compared to 2008 revenue margin, although there may be variability between quarterly periods.       Cost Management:  The Company expects to continue to benefit from cost cutting actions taken in 2007 and 2008 and will pursue additional efforts to achieve sustainable efficiency through cost reductions, including realizing synergies
from the Chevy Chase Bank acquisition.       Capital Management:        

The Company s TCE (tangible common equity / tangible managed assets) ratio is currently impacted by unrealized losses associated with its investment
portfolio. The Company does not anticipate that these unrealized losses would result in a materially permanent reduction in capital given the low risk of principal loss and that it is unlikely that the Company will need to liquidate securities prior
to maturity for liquidity purposes as the Company has the intent and ability to hold the securities until recovery, which may be maturity.          

The Company expects the TCE ratio to decline by about 100 basis points with the close of the Chevy Chase Bank F.S.B. acquisition.          

The Company expects to maintain a strong TCE ratio in 2009. The TCE ratio is expected to remain below the long-term target range of 5.5% to 6.0% in 2009.
The Company expects regulatory capital ratios to remain comfortably above the level required by regulators in 2009.          

The Company will actively manage capital in conjunction with evolving views of the economy and portfolio trends. The Company believes it will maintain adequate
capital ratios.            
   43   

Table of Contents  

    VI. Financial Summary       Table 1 provides a summary view of the consolidated income statement and selected metrics at and for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.       CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION        Table 1: Financial Summary        

(1)  
  In accordance with the Company s finance charge and fee revenue recognition policy, the amounts billed to customers but not recognized as revenue were $1.9 billion, $1.1
billion and $0.9 billion for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.     

(2)  
  Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.     

(3)  
  Based on continuing operations.           
   44   

Table of Contents  

(4)  
  On December 1, 2006, the Company acquired 100% of the outstanding common stock of North Fork Bancorporation for total consideration of $13.2 billion.     

(5)  
  Discontinued operations related to the shutdown of mortgage origination operations of GreenPoint s wholesale mortgage banking unit in 2007.     

(6)  
  Risk adjusted margin equals total revenue less net charge-offs as a percentage of average earning assets.     

(7)  
  Efficiency ratio equals non-interest expense less restructuring expense and goodwill impairment charge divided by total revenue.     

(8)  
  In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company recorded impairment of goodwill in its Auto Finance sub-segment of $810.9 million.          Summary of the Reported Income Statement        The following is a
detailed description of the financial results reflected in Table 1. Additional information is provided in Section XI, Tabular Summary as detailed in sections below.      The following discussion provides a summary of 2008 results compared to 2007 results and 2007 results compared to 2006 results on a continuing operations basis, unless otherwise noted. Each component is discussed in
further detail in subsequent sections of this analysis.        Net interest income        Net interest income is comprised of interest income earned on securities and interest income and past-due fees earned and deemed collectible from the Company s loans, less interest expense on interest-bearing
deposits, senior and subordinated notes, and other borrowings. For the year ended December 31, 2008, reported net interest income increased 9.5%, or $618.9 million.      Interest income on loans held for investment decreased modestly to $9.46 billion from $9.50 billion at the end of 2007 as the increase in average loans held for investment from $93.5 billion to $99.0 billion was
offset by the impact of increasing delinquencies which caused our revenue suppression to increase to $1.9 billion from $1.1 billion in 2007, and by lower interest rates on our variable rate products as interest rates declined throughout the year.
     Interest income on securities available for sale increased $273.0 million driven by increases in the average portfolio from $18.9 billion to $25.0 billion
in 2008 while yields remained stable. The increase in the securities available for sale portfolio came as the Company continued to grow its deposit base and maintained our approach of holding high quality, low risk investments rather than taking
excessive credit risk to generate incremental earnings. While interest rates declined throughout 2008, the Company maintained stable yields in growing the securities portfolio by taking advantage of market illiquidity to purchase securities at an
attractive yield.      Interest expense on interest-bearing deposits decreased $394.3 million from 2007. The average balance on interest-bearing deposits
increased to $82.7 billion from $74.0 billion while the yield decreased to 3.04% in 2008 from 3.94% as the Federal Reserve reduced the federal funds rate throughout 2008.      For the year ended December 31, 2007, reported net interest income increased 28%, or $1.4 billion, compared to 2006. The increase was driven by the acquisition of North Fork, modest loan growth and increased
margins in the U.S Card sub-segment due to selective pricing changes implemented after the completion of our card holder system conversion in 2007. Net interest margin decreased 68 basis points for the year ended December 31, 2007, primarily
due to the addition of the lower net interest margin North Fork business.      For additional information, see section XI, Tabular Summary, Table A and Table
B.        Non-interest income        Non-interest income is
comprised of servicing and securitizations income, mortgage servicing and other, service charges and other customer-related fees, interchange income and other non-interest income.      For the year ended December 31, 2008, non-interest income decreased 16%. For the year ended December 31, 2007, non-interest income increased 15%. See detailed discussion of the components of non-interest
income below.       Servicing and Securitizations Income       Servicing and securitizations income represents servicing fees, excess spread and other fees derived from the off-balance sheet loan portfolio, adjustments to the fair value of retained interests derived through
securitization transactions, as well as gains and losses resulting from securitization and other sales transactions.      Servicing and
securitizations income decreased 30% for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease was attributable to reductions in average securitized loans year over year and to reductions in fair value of the interest-only strips of $224.8 million due
to the worsening global credit environment. Average securitized loans were $48.8 billion for 2008 compared to $51.2 billion for 2007.      Servicing and securitizations income increased 15% for the year ended December 31, 2007. This increase was attributable to higher net gains on sales resulting from higher revenue generated from selective pricing and fee changes in the
U.S. card  
       
   45   

Table of Contents  

portfolio offset somewhat by higher charge-offs in the securitized portfolio resulting from continued normalization of credit losses and a 7% increase in
average securitized loans year over year. Average securitized loans were $51.2 billion for 2007 compared to $47.8 billion in 2006.       Service Charges and Other Customer-Related Fees       For 2008, service charges and other customer-related fees grew 8% due to
higher overlimit and cash advance fees.      For 2007, service charges and other customer-related fees grew 16% due to the inclusion of North
Fork and selective pricing changes in the U.S. Card sub-segment.       Mortgage Servicing and Other Income       Mortgage servicing and other income is comprised of non-interest income related to our mortgage servicing business and other mortgage related income. For
the year ended December 31, 2008, mortgage servicing and other income decreased 37% from the prior year due to the changes in fair value of the mortgage servicing rights attributable to the run-off of the portfolio and reduced gains on sales
due to lower originations in 2008.      For the year ended December 31, 2007, mortgage servicing and other income decreased 6% from prior
year due to the changes in fair value of the mortgage servicing rights attributable to the run-off of the portfolio and lack of originations subsequent to the shutdown of GreenPoint s mortgage origination business in 2007.       Interchange       Interchange income, net
of rewards expense, increased 12.3% for the year ended December 31, 2008 on a reported basis due to a shift in loans from a reduction in our off-balance sheet securitized loans to an increase in our reported on-balance sheet loans during 2008.
Interchange on a managed basis decreased 7.8% due to decreases in managed purchase volume of 1.2% and increases in rewards expense. Costs associated with the Company s rewards programs in 2008 were $221.4 million on a reported basis and $709.2
million on a managed basis. The increase in the rewards expense was due to an expansion of our rewards programs.      Interchange income, net of
rewards expense, decreased 9% for the year ended December 31, 2007 due to decreases in reported purchase volume of 3% and higher costs associated with our rewards programs of 3%. Managed U.S. Card purchase volume increased 3% compared to 2006.
Costs associated with the Company s rewards programs in 2007 were $182.9 million on a reported basis and $602.2 million on a managed basis.       Other Non-Interest Income       Other non-interest income includes, among other items, gains and losses on sales of securities,
gains and losses associated with hedging transactions and revenue generated by our healthcare finance business.      Other non-interest income
for the year ended December 31, 2008 decreased $28.4 million or 5.8%. The decrease was primarily due to reduced commission income and changes in exchange rates from 2007. Other non-interest income for 2008 also includes a $109.0 million gain
from the redemption of shares related to the Visa IPO and a gain of $44.9 million from the sale of MasterCard stock.      Other non-interest
income for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased $194.4 million or 66%. The increase is primarily due to the North Fork acquisition. Other non-interest income for 2007 also includes a $46.2 million gain from the sale of a stake in
DealerTrack Holding Inc., a $41.6 million gain on sale of our interest in a relationship agreement to develop and market consumer credit products in Spain and gains from sales of MasterCard stock of $43.4 million.        Provision for loan and lease losses        Provision for loan and
lease losses increased $2.5 billion, or 93% for the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase in the provision is a result of continued worsening of the economy which rapidly deteriorated during the later part of 2008 as evidenced by increases
in both the charge-off rate and delinquency rate, rising to 3.51% and 4.37%, respectively, from 2.10% and 3.66%, respectively. The provision for loan and lease loses increased $1.0 billion in the fourth quarter alone as the Company increased the
allowance for loan and lease losses as the unemployment rate and housing prices showed significant worsening during the fourth quarter of 2008.      Provision
for loan and lease losses increased $1.2 billion, or 79% for the year ended December 31, 2007. The increase in provision is a result of the continued normalization of consumer credit following the unusually favorable credit environment in 2006,
adverse charge-off and delinquency trends in our National Lending businesses and the increase in our coverage ratio of allowance to loans held for investment as a result of economic weakening in the latter part of 2007 as evidenced by increased
delinquency rates and consistent with recently released economic indicators.         
   46   

Table of Contents  

     Non-interest expense        Non-interest expense consists of marketing, goodwill impairment and operating expenses.      For the year ended December 31, 2008, non-interest
expense, excluding goodwill impairment, decreased 8%. For the year ended December 31, 2007, non-interest expense increased 16%. See detailed discussion of the components of non-interest expense below.       Marketing       Marketing expenses
decreased 17% for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease in marketing expenses was due to selective pull-backs in certain marketing channels and other reductions in response to the changes in the economic environment.      Marketing expenses decreased 7% for the year ended December 31, 2007. The decrease in marketing expenses was due to selective pull-backs in certain
marketing channels.       Goodwill impairment       The Company recorded an impairment to goodwill of $810.9 million, as a result of a reduced estimate of the fair value of the Auto Finance sub-segment due to business decisions to scale back origination volume in that
business. For additional information, see Section II Critical Accounting Estimates,  Valuation of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets .       Operating Expenses       Operating expenses decreased 7% for the year ended December 31. 2008. The decrease in operating
expenses was a direct result of benefits from the Company s continued cost reduction initiatives.      Operating expenses increased 22% for
the year ended December 31. 2007. The increase The increase in operating expense was driven by the addition of North Fork s operating expenses, CDI amortization and integration expenses associated with our bank acquisitions, litigation
accruals related to industry litigation, restructuring charges associated with our cost initiative, and the accelerated vesting of restricted stock related to the transition to new management in our Local Banking segment.        Income Taxes        The Company s effective tax rate was 85.5%,
33.0% and 33.9% for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The effective rate includes federal, state, and international tax components. The increase in the 2008 rate compared to the 2007 rate was primarily due to the
non-deductible portion of the goodwill impairment recognized during 2008. The Company s effective tax rate excluding the goodwill impairment was 37.8%. The decrease in the 2007 rate compared to the 2006 rate was primarily due to changes in the
Company s international tax position recognized in the second quarter 2007 in the amount of $69.0 million and increases in certain tax credits.        Loan Portfolio Summary        The Company analyzes its financial performance on a managed loan portfolio basis. The managed loan portfolio
is comprised of on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet loans. The Company has retained servicing rights for its securitized loans and receives servicing fees in addition to the excess spread generated from the off-balance sheet loan portfolio.
     Average managed loans held for investment from continuing operations grew $3.1 billion, or 2%, for the year ended December 31, 2008. The modest
growth in 2008 was a result of increases in Local Banking and U.S. Card which was mostly offset by reductions in our International and Auto Finance sub-segments.      Average managed loans held for investment from continuing operations grew $33.4 billion, or 30%, for the year ended December 31, 2007. The increase in average managed loans held for investment during 2007 was due to the North Fork
acquisition in late 2006.      For additional information, see section XI, Tabular Summary, Table C and Table D.        Asset Quality         Delinquencies       The Company believes delinquencies to be an indicator of loan portfolio credit quality at a point in time.      The 30-plus day delinquency rate for the reported and managed loan portfolio increased 71 and 62 basis points to 4.37% and 4.49%, respectively, from December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2008. The increase was
due to the continued worsening of the economy which rapidly deteriorated during the second half of 2008 impacting both the National Lending and Local Banking segments.       
  
   47   

Table of Contents  

   The 30-plus day delinquency rate for the reported and managed loan portfolio increased 92 and 85 basis points to 3.66%
and 3.87%, respectively, from December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2007. The acquisition of the lower loss North Fork loan portfolio reduced reported and managed delinquency rates. The decrease was offset by normalization of credit following
the unusually favorable credit environment in 2006, selective pricing and fee policy moves in the U.S. Card sub-segment, the significant pull back from prime revolver marketing in the U.S. Card sub-segment, continued elevated losses in the Auto
Finance sub-segment, and from economic weakening evidenced by increased delinquencies and consistent with recently released economic indicators.      For
additional information, see section XI, Tabular Summary, Table E.       Net Charge-Offs       Net charge-offs include the principal amount of losses (excluding accrued and unpaid finance charges and fees and fraud losses) less current period principal recoveries. We charge-off credit card loans at 180 days
past the statement cycle date and generally charge-off other consumer loans at 120 days past the due date or upon repossession of collateral. Bankruptcies charge-off within 30 days of notification and deceased accounts charge-off within 60 days of
notification. Commercial loans are charged-off when the amounts are deemed uncollectible. Costs to recover previously charged-off accounts are recorded as collection expenses in other non-interest expense.      For 2008, reported and managed net charge-off rates increased 141 basis points and 147 basis points to 3.51% and 4.35%, respectively. The increase in both the reported
and managed charge-off rates was due to the continued worsening of the economy which rapidly deteriorated during the second half of 2008. The reported charge-off dollars totaled $3.5 billion during 2008, an increase of 77% from 2007. The managed
charge-off dollars totaled $6.4 billion, increasing 54% from 2007.      For 2007 reported and managed net charge-off rates decreased 11 basis points to 2.10%
and increased 4 basis points to 2.88%, respectively. The decrease in the reported charge-off rate was impacted by the higher credit quality North Fork loan portfolio for a full year 2007 which more than offset the effects of continued consumer
credit normalization and economic weakness during the latter part of 2007. The impacts of the continued credit normalization and economic weakness also had a significant impact on the managed charge-off rate for the Company s credit card
securitization programs. Year-to-date reported and managed net charge-off dollars increased 39% and 32%, respectively, compared to the prior year.      For
additional information, see section XI, Tabular Summary, Table F.       Nonperforming Loans       Nonperforming loans as a percentage of total loans held for investment were 0.80% and 0.39% at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The increase in nonperforming loans was due to the continued economic
weakening and credit deterioration during 2008.      For additional information, see section XI, Tabular Summary, Table G.       Allowance for loan and lease losses       The allowance for loan and lease
losses related to loans held for investment increased $1.5 billion, or 53% to $4.5 billion at December 31, 2008. The increase is due to the continued worsening of the economy which rapidly deteriorated during the second half of 2008 increasing
our expectation of credit losses in 2009. Certain factors impacting the calculation of the allowance for loan and lease losses, such as the unemployment rate and housing prices, showed significant worsening during the fourth quarter of 2008
contributing to a $1.0 billion increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses during the fourth quarter alone.      The allowance for loan and lease
losses related to loans held for investment increased $783.0 million, or 36% to $3.0 billion at December 31, 2007. The increase is driven primarily by an increase in our coverage ratio of allowance to loans held for investment as a result of
economic weakening in the latter part of 2007 as evidenced by increased delinquencies and consistent with recently released economic indicators.      For
additional information, see section XI, Tabular Summary, Table H.         
   48   

Table of Contents  

    VII. Reportable Segment Summary for Continuing Operations       We manage our business as two distinct operating segments: Local Banking and National Lending. The Local Banking and National Lending segments are considered reportable
segments based on quantitative thresholds applied to the managed loan portfolio for reportable segments provided by SFAS No. 131,  Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information.        As management makes decisions on a managed basis within each segment, information about reportable segments is provided on a managed basis.      In 2007, the Company shut down mortgage origination operations of its wholesale mortgage banking unit, GreenPoint. The results of the mortgage origination operations are
being reported as discontinued operations for each period presented, and are not included in segment results of the Company. The results of GreenPoint s mortgage servicing business continue to be reported as part of the Company s
continuing operations. The mortgage servicing function was moved into the Local Banking segment in conjunction with the shutdown of the mortgage origination operation, and the results of the Local Banking segment were restated to include the
mortgage servicing results for each period of 2007. During 2007, GreenPoint s held for investment commercial mortgage portfolio results were moved into the Local Banking segment. GreenPoint s held for investment consumer portfolio results
were moved into the Other segment in 2007.      We maintain our books and records on a legal entity basis for the preparation of financial statements in
conformity with GAAP. The following table presents information prepared from our internal management information system, which is maintained on a line of business level through allocations from legal entities.         
   49   

Table of Contents  

      Local Banking Segment          Table 2: Local Banking        
       
   50   

Table of Contents  

(1)  
  Core deposits includes domestic non-interest bearing deposits, NOW accounts, money market deposit accounts, savings accounts, certificates of deposit of less than $100,000 and other
consumer time deposits.     

(2)  
  Net interest margin loans equals net interest income loans divided by average managed loans.     

(3)  
  Net interest margin deposits equals net interest  deposits divided by average retail deposits.     

(4)  
  Commercial and multi-family real estate targets private developers and commercial property investors and owners with credit requirements up to $100 million.

(5)  
  Middle market focuses on businesses with annual revenues between $10 million and $250 million located within the segment s local footprint.     

(6)  
  Small ticket commercial real estate is comprised of small business products, mainly mixed-use and multi-family real-estate in the Local Banking segment.     

(7)  
  Specialty lending provides equipment leasing and other specialized lending in the national marketplace.     

(8)  
  Small business lending is focused on businesses with $10 million or less in revenues and $3 million or less in household size.     

(9)  
  Mortgage lending includes held for investment first lien residential mortgage assets.     

(10)  
  Branch based home equity and other consumer lending primarily includes home equity loans and lines of credit in the local consumer banking segment, and some consumer unsecured loans
and lines of credit.     

(11)  
  Other loans held for investment includes unamortized premiums and discounts recognized on loans acquired in North Fork and Hibernia acquisitions, certain items in process, and other
loans originated by the Local Banking segment.     

(12)  
  Non performing assets is comprised of non performing loans and foreclosed assets. The non performing asset rate equals non performing assets divided by the sum of loans held for
investment plus foreclosed assets.        The Local Banking segment includes the Company s branch, treasury services and national deposit
gathering activities; its commercial, branch based small business and certain branch originated consumer lending; and its mortgage servicing.      Beginning in
2006, we added a Local Banking segment. The Local Banking segment represents the results of the legacy Hibernia and North Fork business lines, except for the indirect auto business and the investment portfolio results. The legacy indirect auto
businesses of both Hibernia and North Fork are included in the Auto Finance sub-segment results, and the respective investment portfolio results are included in the Other segment. The impacts of the North Fork acquisition for the year ended
December 31, 2006 are included in the Other segment.        Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007     
  The Local Banking segment contributed $224.6 million of net income during 2008, compared to $593.1 million during 2007. At December 31, 2008, loans outstanding in
the Local Banking segment totaled $45.1 billion while deposit balances totaled $78.9 billion compared to loans outstanding of $44.0 billion and deposits of $73.1 billion at December 31, 2007. The increase in loans can be attributed to 9.5%
growth in commercial loans, primarily in our middle market portfolio as the Gulf South region, with a concentration in the energy sector, weathered the economic downturn better than other markets, partially offset by runoff in our residential
mortgage portfolio. Deposits grew 8%, primarily driven by increases in our national direct and our consumer branch deposits.      Local Banking segment profits
are primarily generated from net interest income, which represents the yield earned on the loans less the internal transfer price charged to the business for those loans, plus the spread between deposit interest costs and the funds transfer price
credited to the business for those deposits. During 2008, the Local Banking segment generated net interest income of $2.4 billion compared to $2.3 billion during 2007. The increase in net interest income can be attributed to higher net interest
margin on both loans and deposits.         
   51   

Table of Contents  

   Non-interest income declined from $939.9 million in 2007 to $813.7 million in 2008. Compared to 2007, mortgage
originations decreased significantly due to the continued industry-wide challenges in the mortgage market. Lower gain on sale revenue and an increase in representation and warranty reserves resulted in a year over year decline of $102.7 million in
non-interest income. In addition, revenue in the mortgage servicing business declined $19.0 million in 2008 from 2007 as the principal balance of loans serviced continued to decline year over year.      Provision for loan and lease losses was $447.6 million in 2008 compared to $32.2 million in 2007, as charge-offs increased to $222.4 million and an increase to the
allowance for loan and lease losses. The increase in provision expense was related to the deterioration in the economy during 2008. Deteriorating economic conditions negatively impacted borrowers  ability to repay and decreased collateral
values, resulting in an increase in criticized and non-performing loans and charge-offs during the year.      Non-interest expenses were $2.4 billion in 2008,
compared to $2.3 billion in 2007. In addition to investments in branches and other infrastructure projects, during 2008 the Local Banking segment continued to incur North Fork Bank integration costs such as brand conversion and deposit system
integration. In 2008, the Company opened 21 new banking locations across Louisiana, New Jersey, New York, Texas and Virginia while closing 24 branches. The costs of operating these branches, including lease costs, depreciation and personnel, is
included in non-interest expense.        Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006        The Local Banking segment contributed $574.2 million of net income during 2007, compared to $178.6 million during 2006. At December 31, 2007, loans outstanding in
the Local Banking segment totaled $44.0 billion while deposits outstanding totaled $73.3 billion. The increases in loans and deposits outstanding are due primarily to the addition of the loan and deposit portfolios of North Fork Bank, along with
modest growth in loans and deposits during 2007. As of December 31, 2006, North Fork loan and deposit balances of $30.1 billion and $37.8 billion, respectively, were included in the Other segment.      Local Banking segment profits are primarily generated from net interest income, which represents the spread between loan yields and the internal cost of funds charged to
the business for those loans, plus the spread between deposit interest costs and the funds transfer price credited to the business for those deposits. During 2007, the Local Banking segment generated net interest income of $2.3 billion compared to
$996.9 million during 2006. The increase is due to the increase in loan and deposit outstandings mentioned above. The net interest margin on loans was lower in 2007 than 2006 because of the addition of the North Fork loan portfolio, which contained
a higher percentage of lower yielding loans than the Hibernia portfolio. Net interest margins on deposits are higher in 2007 than in 2006 because of the addition of the lower cost North Fork deposit portfolio to the existing Hibernia and Capital One
deposits.      The provision for loan losses increased to $32.1 million in 2007 from $0.4 million in 2006. The increase is primarily the result of the addition
of the North Fork loan portfolios in 2007, offset by a $91.4 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses to conform the allowance for loan and lease losses methodology of the Local Banking segment to the Company s established
methodology. In addition, during 2006, $25.7 million of allowance for loan losses previously established to cover expected losses in the portion of the loan portfolio impacted by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita was no longer needed and these amounts
reduced the overall provision expense in 2006.      Non-interest expenses were $2.3 billion in 2007, compared to $1.2 billion in 2006. The primary reason for
the increase is the addition of North Fork to the Local Banking segment results in 2007. In addition, during 2007 the Local Banking segment continued to incur costs associated with the integration of Hibernia and North Fork. These activities
progressed as planned during the year and all Hibernia related integration activities were completed. In 2007, the Company opened 39 new banking locations across Louisiana, New Jersey, New York, Texas and Virginia. The costs of operating these
branches, including lease costs, depreciation and personnel, is included in non-interest expense.        National Lending Segment         Table 3: National Lending        
       
   52   

Table of Contents  

The National Lending segment consists of two sub-segments: U.S. Card and Other National Lending. Other National
Lending consists of Auto Finance and International.        Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007
       The National Lending segment contributed $110.0 million of net income during 2008, compared to $2.4 billion during 2007. At December 31, 2008,
loans outstanding in the National Lending segment totaled $101.1 billion while deposits outstanding totaled $1.5 billion. Profits are primarily generated from net interest income, which includes past-due fees earned and deemed collectible from our
loans, and non-interest income, which includes fee-based services to customers. The reduction in net income was driven by an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses of $2.7 billion to $7.4 billion and by the recognition of an impairment
on goodwill of $810.9 million in the Auto Finance sub-segment partially offset by a $526.3 million decrease in non-interest expense due to benefits from the Company s cost reduction initiatives. The increase in the provision for loan and lease
losses was due to a significantly worse credit environment in 2008 as evidenced by an increase in the net charge-off rate to 5.88% from 3.96% in 2007. Total revenue was flat compared to 2007 as average managed loans held for investment were
essentially level, increasing only 0.44% from 2007 levels, with growth in U.S. Card offset by declines in both Auto Finance and International. The net interest margin and revenue margin were 8.76% and 13.37%, respectively, during 2008 compared to
8.65% and 13.41%, respectively, during 2007. The risk adjusted margin decreased to 7.49% from 9.45% in 2007 due to the increase in charge-offs. Accounts have declined by 3.7 million in U.S. Card as the Company closed approximately
2 million inactive accounts during the second quarter of 2008. See below for a detailed discussion of the results of the U.S. Card, Auto Finance and International sub-segments.        Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006        The National Lending segment
contributed $2.4 billion of net income during 2007, compared to $2.3 billion during 2006. At December 31 2007, loans outstanding in the National Lending segment totaled $106.5 billion while deposits outstanding totaled $2.1 billion. Profits are
primarily generated from net interest income, which includes past-due fees earned and deemed collectible from our loans, and non-interest income, which includes fee-based services to customers. Total revenue increased 12% during 2007 primarily due
to growth in the average managed loans held for investment portfolio of 7% and selective pricing and fee changes following conversion of our cardholder system. Provision for loan and lease losses increased $1.5 billion, or 46%, during 2007, compared
to 2006 due to normalization of credit following the unusually favorable credit environment in 2006, selective pricing and fee policy moves in the U.S. Card sub-segment, the significant pull back from prime revolver marketing in the U.S. Card
sub-segment, continued elevated losses in the Auto Finance sub-segment, and from economic weakening consistent with recently released economic indicators.         
   53   

Table of Contents  

     U.S. Card Sub-Segment         Table 4: U.S. Card        

(1)  
  Includes purchase transactions net of returns and excludes cash advance transactions.        The U.S. Card sub-segment consists of domestic consumer credit card lending, national small business lending, installment loans and other unsecured consumer financial service activities.        Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007        Period end loans outstanding increased $1.2 billion, or 2%, with modest growth in our credit card business being partially offset by pullbacks in closed-end loans. Purchase volume decreased by 3% year over year,
particularly in the fourth quarter, as purchases did not show seasonal growth, actually declining from the third quarter. Lower payments have offset the decreased purchase volume, with a decline of 4% from 2007 to 2008. Accounts have declined by
3.7 million primarily in the U.S. Card sub-segment as the Company closed approximately 2 million inactive accounts during the second quarter of 2008.      The U.S. Card sub-segment had earnings of $1.0 billion in 2008, a decline of 56% year over year, driven by higher losses and allowance builds on worsening credit, partially offset by slightly increased revenue and lower non-interest
expenses. The slight increase in revenue was due to lower interest expenses, while the decrease in non-interest expense was due to benefits from the Company s cost reduction initiatives.      Total revenues increased by 2% over the prior year, with slight increases in both interest and non-interest income. Net interest margin increased 7 basis points to
9.46%, which combined with increases in loans held for investment accounted for the bulk of the higher revenues.      The provision for loan and lease losses
increased 80% to $5.5 billion during 2008, driven entirely by a significantly worse credit environment. Net adjusted charge-offs increased $1.7 billion, or 63%, during the year to $4.3 billion. The allowance for loan and lease losses increased
$751.1 million, or 207%. The net charge-off rate increased 233 basis points over 2007 for a full-year rate of 6.33%, while the 30+ day delinquency rate increased 50 basis points to end the year at 4.78%.      Total non-interest expenses decreased 8% from 2007 to $3.6 billion. Marketing expenses declined as a result of risk-related pullbacks and improved marketing efficiency.
Operating expenses declined as a result of continued focus on efficiency gains.         
   54   

Table of Contents  

     Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006        The U.S. Card sub-segment had earnings of $2.3 billion, an increase of 11% year-over-year due to higher revenue generation and increased operational efficiency, partially
offset by the worsening credit environment and associated allowance build.      Period end loans outstanding increased $1.0 billion, or 1%, during 2007, mainly
due to heavy growth within installment loans and small business products, partially offset by a portfolio sale related to the exit of a co-branded consumer card partnership at the end of the first quarter of 2007. Purchase volume increased $3.8
billion, or 4%, with increases in both consumer card, 3%, and small business, 7%.      Total revenues increased by $1.2 billion, or 13%, over the prior year,
as margins expanded due to product and marketing strategy changes implemented in 2007. Net interest margin increased 70 bps to 9.39%, while revenue margin increased 110 bps to 15.59%, primarily due to selective pricing and fee changes within
consumer card.      The provision for loan and lease losses increased 50% to $3.0 billion during 2007. The increase is partly driven by the normalization of
credit in 2007 following the unusually favorable credit environment in 2006, in addition to general economic weakening. Net adjusted charge-offs increased $681 million, or 34%, and the allowance for loan and lease losses increased $334 million as
all businesses experienced worsenings.      Non-interest expenses for 2007 decreased $166 million, or 4%, due to lower marketing spend as a result of evolving
marketing strategy, and slightly lower operating expenses from increased operational efficiency.         Other National Lending Sub-Segment    
      Table 5: Other National Lending        
       
   55   

Table of Contents  

   The Other National Lending sub-segment consists of the Auto Finance and International sub-segments.         Auto Finance (a sub-segment of Other National Lending)          Table 6: Auto Finance        
    The Auto Finance sub-segment consists of automobile and other motor vehicle financing activities.        Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007        The Auto Finance sub-segment recognized a net loss of $958.9 million during 2008, compared with a net loss of $33.8 million during 2007. Excluding the $804.4 million after tax impact of the goodwill impairment
incurred in the fourth quarter of 2008, the Auto Finance sub-segment recognized a net loss of $154.5 million in 2008, driven primarily by higher credit related expenses due to the worsening economy and the general conditions surrounding the auto
industry over the past year.      As a result of the uncertain operating environment, the Auto Finance sub-segment chose to purposefully reduce the size of the
loan portfolio from the prior period. Originations in 2008 were $6.9 billion, 48% lower than the prior year, driven by pullbacks across both the dealer and direct channels. Loans held for investment decreased 15% year over year, as the business
focused on its most resilient customer segments during these economic challenges.      Despite the significant volume pullbacks over the period, total revenue
in 2008 declined only 2% from 2007. Partially offsetting the volume driven revenue impacts was an ability to modestly increase net interest margin as several key competitors pulled back or exited markets over the period.      During 2008, the Auto Finance sub-segment s net charge-off rate was 4.59%, up 153 basis points from 3.06% during 2007. Net charge-offs increased $340.4 million, or
46%, while average loans outstanding during 2008 decreased $666.5 million, or 3%, compared to 2007. Declining auction rates for used vehicles contributed approximately $31.1 million to the increase in net charge-offs. The 30-plus day delinquency
rate was 9.91%, up 207 basis points at December 31, 2008 versus prior year. The provision for loan losses increased $264.4 million, or 25% in 2008 driven by further weakening in the U.S. economy, partially offset by the shrinking loan portfolio
over the period.         
   56   

Table of Contents  

   Excluding the goodwill impairment charge, non-interest expense declined by 18.5% over the period, as volume related
pullbacks resulted in lower origination and servicing costs, coupled with an overall improvement in efficiency over the period.        Year Ended
December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006        The Auto Finance sub-segment recognized a net loss of $33.8 million during
2007, compared with net income of $233.5 million during 2006, as revenue generated from portfolio growth was more than offset by worsening credit performance.      The loan portfolio increased 16% year over year as a result of the transfer of $1.8 billion of North Fork Bank s auto loans to the Auto Finance sub-segment on January 1, 2007 and strong organic originations growth within our
dealer and direct marketing channels. Originations in 2007 were $13.2 billion, 7% higher than prior year. As a result of this portfolio growth, net interest income increased 10% during 2007 compared to 2006.      Non-interest income for 2007 included a one-time gain of $46.2 million related to the sale of 1.8 million shares of DealerTrack.      During 2007, the Auto Finance sub-segment s net charge-off rate was 3.06%, up 78 basis points from 2.28% during 2006. Net charge-offs of loans outstanding increased
$272.8 million, or 58%, while average loans outstanding during 2007 grew $3.7 billion, or 18%, compared to 2006. The 30-plus day delinquency rate was up 149 basis points at December 31, 2007. The adverse credit performance was mainly driven by
credit normalization following the unusually favorable credit environment in 2006 and elevated losses with weakening U.S. economy. The provision for loan and lease losses increased $561.3 million, or 113% during 2007. This increase was driven by a
weakening U.S. economy, growth in the loan portfolio, and elevated losses from discontinued programs in our prime segment, as well as moderately worse credit quality in subprime.      In 2007, Non-interest expense increased 3%, compared to 12% revenue growth. Operating costs as a percent of loans have declined from 2.8% during the first quarter of 2007 to 2.3% during the fourth quarter of 2007 as
the Auto Finance sub-segment realized the benefits of the integration of the dealer programs of the legacy Capital One, Onyx, Hibernia, and North Fork auto lending businesses.         
   57   

Table of Contents  

      International (a sub-segment of Other National Lending)          Table 7: International        
    The International sub-segment consists of U.K. and Canada lending activities.        Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007        Net income for the International sub-segment decreased 51% from 2007 to 2008. Excluding the $31.3 million net gain on the sale of an interest in Spain booked in Q4 2007, full year net income decreased 38% from 2007.
This year over year decline was driven by lower revenue in the U.K. due to lower loans held for investment of $2.9 billion as the business continues to focus its long term strategy on more resilient product offerings, coupled with foreign exchange
movements over the period, which accounted for $2.2 billion of the decrease. U.K. non-interest expense declined by 18% from 2007 driven by a continued focus on efficiency and the realization of full year savings from the outsourcing initiative
implemented in 2007. Canada s net income rose a modest 2% from 2007 in U.S. dollars and was flat in local currency, primarily due to higher net interest income driven by higher outstandings, offset by a higher provision for loan and lease
losses, as economic indicators in the Canadian economy have recently begun to show a spillover effect from the U.S.      The net charge-off rate for the
International sub-segment in 2008 was 5.77%, an increase of 14 basis points compared to 5.63% for 2007. The increase in the net charge-off rate is largely the result of worsening credit quality trends in both the U.K. and Canada.        Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006        Net income for the International sub-segment increased 354% from 2006 to 2007. Excluding the $31.3 million net gain on the sale of an interest in Spain, net income increased 252% from 2006. Profitability improved year
over year in both the Canada and U.K. businesses driven by underlying growth as well as foreign exchange movements over the period. In the U.K., credit conditions eased substantially from 2006, causing a 19% decline in the provision for loan and
lease losses. Additionally, the U.K. business saw modest improvements in its efficiency ratio as it implemented several cost initiatives over the period. Our Canadian business saw significant growth from 2006 to 2007, driven by 8% local currency
outstandings growth and significant appreciation of the Canadian dollar to the U.S. dollar over the comparison period. This growth, coupled with improvements in both revenue margin and operating efficiency, led to a 40% year-over-year increase in
net income.         
   58   

Table of Contents  

    VIII. Liquidity and Funding       The Company manages liquidity risk to ensure that we can fund asset and loan growth, debt and deposit maturities and withdrawals, and payments of other corporate obligations. To achieve this, the Company s Asset/Liability Management
Committee and Finance Committee establish liquidity guidelines to ensure that the Company can withstand significant degradation in the funding markets. The Company seeks to maintain a large liquidity reserve to guard against possible degradation.
This reserve is comprised of cash, unencumbered securities available for sale and undrawn committed facilities. The current economic environment could have an adverse impact on our asset values, including our securities available for sale, and
impact our ability to borrow funds or engage in securitization transactions. See Section  1A. Risk Factors  for additional information.      The
Company uses a variety of funding sources to establish a maturity pattern that provides a prudent mixture of short-term and long-term funds. The Company obtains funds through the gathering of deposits, issuing debt and equity securities, and
securitizing assets. Further liquidity is available to the Company through committed facilities, including undrawn conduits, FHLB advances and recently enacted government programs.       Cash and Cash Equivalents       The Company held $7.5 billion of cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2008,
compared to $4.8 billion of cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2007. Cash and cash equivalents provide immediate sources of funds to meet the Company s liquidity needs, including dividend payments and other funding obligations.
      Securities Available for Sale       The Company held $31.0
billion in available for sale investment securities, of which $13.7 billion was pledged available-for-sale investment securities at December 31, 2008, compared to $19.8 billion in available for sale investment securities, of which $9.3 billion
was pledged available-for-sale investment securities at December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2008, the weighted average life of the investment securities was approximately 2.6 years. These investment securities provide increased liquidity
and flexibility to support the Company s funding requirements.      The Company monitors the available for sale investment securities for
other-then-temporary impairment based on a number of criteria, including the size of the unrealized loss position, the duration for which the security has been in a loss position, credit rating, the nature of the investments, current market
conditions and the Company s intent and ability to hold the securities until anticipated recovery, which may be upon maturity. The Company recognized other-than-temporary impairment charges of $10.9 million for the year ended December 31,
2008. No other-than-temporary impairment was recognized for the year ended December 31, 2007. The available for sale investment securities had net unrealized losses of $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2008, and net unrealized gains of $22.3
million as of December 31, 2007. The Company has the ability and intent to hold these investments until a recovery of fair value, which may be maturity. For additional information see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Date  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   Note 4.       Deposits       Deposits have become the Company s largest funding source. Deposits provide a stable, low-cost source of funds that we utilize to fund loan and asset growth and to diversify funding sources. The Company has
continued to expand its deposit gathering efforts through its direct and indirect marketing channels, the existing branch network and through de novo branch expansion. These channels offer a broad set of deposit products that include demand
deposits, money market deposits, NOW accounts, and certificates of deposit ( CDs ).      As of December 31, 2008, the Company had $108.6 billion
in deposits of which $2.7 billion were held in foreign banking offices and $11.3 billion represented large domestic denomination certificates of $100 thousand or more. The Company s core deposits are comprised of domestic non-interest bearing
deposits, NOW accounts, money market deposit accounts, savings accounts, CDs of less than $100,000 and other consumer time deposits. The Company maintains a Grand Cayman branch for issuing Eurodollar time deposits.      The Company has deposits that are obtained through the use of a third-party intermediary. Included in these deposits at December 31, 2008 were brokered deposits of
$26.9 billion, compared to $6.9 billion at December 31, 2007. These deposits represented 24.8% and 8.3% of total deposits at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. If these brokered deposits are not renewed at maturity, the Company
would use its investment securities and money market instruments in addition to alternative funding sources to fund increases in loans and meet its other liquidity needs. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 limits the
use of brokered deposits to  well-capitalized  insured depository institutions and, with a waiver from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, to  adequately capitalized  institutions. At December 31, 2008, the Banks and
the Corporation were  well-capitalized  as defined under the federal banking regulatory guidelines. Based on the Company s historical access to the brokered deposit market, it expects to replace maturing brokered deposits with new
brokered deposits or with the Company s direct deposits. Brokered deposits are included in other consumer time deposits and money market deposit accounts.         
   59   

Table of Contents  

   Table 8 shows the maturities of domestic time certificates of deposit in denominations of $100 thousand or more (large
denomination CDs) as of December 31, 2008. Based on past deposit activity, the Company expects to retain a portion of its deposit balances as they mature. Therefore, the Company anticipates the net cash outflow related to deposits within the
next year will be significantly less than reported in Table 8. Table 9 shows the composition of period end deposits, average deposits and the average deposit rate for the periods presented.       Table 8: Maturities of Large Denomination Certificates $100,000 or More        
     Table 9: Deposit Composition and Average Deposit Rates        
       
   60   

Table of Contents  

Additional information regarding funding can be found in Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 8 .       Credit Ratings       The Company also meets its liquidity needs by accessing the capital markets for long-term funding by issuing asset-backed securities and senior and subordinated debt.
Rating agencies base their ratings on numerous factors, including liquidity, capital adequacy, asset quality and quality of earnings. Significant changes in these factors could result in different ratings. Table 10 provides the senior unsecured debt
credit ratings of the Corporation, COBNA and CONA as of December 31, 2008.       Table 10: Senior Unsecured Debt Credit Ratings        

Capital One Financial     Corporation   
     
   Capital One     Bank (USA), N.A.   
     
   Capital One, N.A.    
 
    Moody s   (1)      
      
  A3  
     
  A2  
     
  A2   

S P   (1)      
      
  BBB+  
     
  A-  
     
  A-   

Fitch, Inc.   
      
  A-  
     
  A-  
     
  A-   

Dominion Bond Rating Service   
      
  BBB***  
     
  A*  
     
  A*   

(1)      
    As of the date of this report, Moody s and S P have the Company on a negative outlook.

*  
  low  *** high         Loan Securitizations       The Company actively engages in securitization transactions of loans for funding purposes. The Company receives the proceeds from third party investors for securities
issued from the Company s securitization vehicles which are collateralized by transferred receivables from the Company s portfolio. The Company removes loans from the reported financial statements for securitizations that qualify as sales
in accordance with SFAS 140. Alternatively, when the transfer would not be considered a sale but rather a financing, the assets will remain on the Company s reported financial statements with an offsetting liability recognized in the amount of
proceeds received.      The Company s securitizations have maturities from 2009 to 2025. The revolving securitizations have accumulation periods during
which principal payments are aggregated to make payments to investors. As payments on the loans are accumulated and are no longer reinvested in new loans, the Company s funding requirements for loans increase accordingly. Securitization
transactions may amortize earlier than scheduled due to certain early amortization triggers, which could require the Company to fund spread accounts, reduce the value of its retained residual interests and ultimately require loans that would have
been sold off of the balance sheet to remain on the Company s balance  
       
   61   

Table of Contents  

sheet and accelerate the need for alternative funding. Additionally, early amortization of securitization structures would require the Company to record
higher reserves for loan and lease losses and would also have a significant impact on the ability of the Company to meet regulatory capital adequacy requirements. As of December 31, 2008, no early amortization events related to the
Company s off-balance sheet securitizations have occurred.      The Company believes that it has the ability to continue to utilize securitization
arrangements as a source of liquidity; however, a significant reduction, termination or change in sale accounting for the Company s off-balance sheet securitizations could require the Company to draw down existing liquidity and/or to obtain
additional funding through the issuance or recognition of secured borrowings or unsecured debt, the raising of additional deposits or the slowing of asset growth to offset or to satisfy liquidity needs. The Company has committed securitization
conduits of $12.0 billion, of which, $6.2 billion was outstanding as of December 31, 2008.       Senior and Subordinated Notes       Other funding programs established by the Company include senior and subordinated notes. At December 31, 2008, the Company had $8.3 billion in senior and
subordinated notes outstanding that mature in varying amounts from 2009 to 2017, as compared to $10.7 billion at December 31, 2007.      Included in
senior and subordinated notes on the Company s balance sheet are notes issued under COBNA s Senior and Subordinated Global Bank Note Program (the  Program ). The Program gives COBNA the ability to issue securities to both U.S.
and non-U.S. lenders and to raise funds in U.S. and foreign currencies, subject to conditions customary for transactions of this nature. Notes may be issued under the Program with maturities of thirty days or more from the date of issue. The Program
was last updated in June 2005. At December 31, 2008, COBNA had $1.8 billion in bank notes outstanding under the Program.       Federal Home Loan Bank
Advances       The Banks are members of various Federal Home Loan Banks ( FHLB ). The FHLB provides additional sources of funding through advances
to the Banks. The FHLB advances are secured by the Company s securities, residential mortgage loan portfolio, multifamily loans, commercial real estate loans and home equity lines of credit. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had
approximately $20.1 billion in securities and loans pledged as collateral to the FHLB. In addition, the Company s FHLB membership is secured by the Company s investment in FHLB stock, which totaled $267.5 million at December 31, 2008
and is included in other assets. Total advances with FHLB agencies at December 31, 2008 were $4.9 billion. During 2008, the Company received $15.4 billion in new advances and had $17.3 billion in advances mature.       Collateralized Revolving Credit Facilities       In March 2002, the
Company entered into a revolving warehouse credit facility collateralized by a security interest in certain auto loan assets (the  Capital One Auto Loan Facility I ). As of December 31, 2008, the Capital One Auto Loan Facility I had
the capacity to issue up to $1.05 billion in secured notes. The Capital One Auto Loan Facility I has multiple participants each with separate renewal dates. The facility does not have a final maturity date. Instead, each participant may elect to
renew the commitment for another set period of time. Interest on the facility is based on commercial paper rates. The Capital One Auto Loan Facility I was paid down in January 2008.      In March 2005, the Company entered into a second revolving warehouse credit facility collateralized by a security interest in certain auto loan assets (the  Capital One Auto Loan Facility II ). As of
December 31, 2008, the Capital One Auto Loan Facility II had the capacity to issue up to $0.5 billion in secured notes. The facility does not have a final maturity date. Instead, the participant may elect to renew the commitment for another set
period of time. Interest on the facility is based on commercial paper rates. The Capital One Auto Loan Facility II was paid down in January 2008.       Government Programs       The Company is eligible or may be eligible to participate in a number of U.S. government programs designed to support
financial institutions and increase access to credit markets. The Company evaluates each of these programs and determines, based on the costs and benefits of each program, whether to participate. During 2008, the Company participated in or was
eligible to participate in the U.S. Treasury Department s Capital Purchase Program ( CPP ), the FDIC s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program ( TLGP ), the Federal Reserve s Discount Window (the  Discount
Window ) and the Federal Reserve s Term Auction Facility ( TAF ).       U.S. Treasury Department s Capital Purchase Program  
     On October 27, 2008, the Company announced its intention to take part in the CPP. On November 14, 2008 the Company entered into an agreement (the
 Securities Purchase Agreement ) to issue 3,555,199 Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Shares, Series A, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference $1,000 per share (the  Series A Preferred Stock ), to the U.S.
Treasury as part of the  
       
   62   

Table of Contents  

Company s participation in the CPP. The Series A Preferred Stock pays cumulative dividends at a rate of 5% per year for the first five years and
thereafter at a rate of 9% per year. In addition, the Company issued a warrant (the  Warrant ) to purchase 12,657,960 of the Company s common shares to the U.S. Treasury as part of the Securities Purchase Agreement. The Company
received proceeds of $3.55 billion for the Series A Preferred Stock and the Warrant.       FDIC s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program    
  As of December 31, 2008, the Company is a participant in the FDIC s TLGP. The TLGP is comprised of the Debt Guarantee Program ( DGP ) and the
Transaction Account Guarantee Program ( TAGP ). For further information regarding the TLGP and TAGP see Item 1  Supervision and Regulation .      The DGP provides an FDIC guarantee of certain senior unsecured debt of FDIC-insured institutions and their holding companies. The unsecured debt must be issued on or after October 14, 2008 and not later than
October 31, 2009, and the guarantee is effective through the earlier of the maturity date or June 30, 2012. The DGP coverage limit is generally 125% of the eligible entity s eligible debt outstanding on September 30, 2008 and
scheduled to mature on or before June 30, 2009 or, for certain insured institutions, 2% of their liabilities as of September 30, 2008. Based on the Company s outstanding senior unsecured debt as of September 30, 2008, the Company
has capacity to issue $1.2 billion under the DGP. As of December 31, 2008, the Company has not issued any debt under the DGP.       Federal
Reserve s Discount Window       The Federal Reserve s Discount Window allows eligible institutions to borrow funds from the Federal Reserve,
typically on a short-term basis, to meet temporary liquidity needs. Borrowers must post collateral, which can be made up of securities or consumer or commercial loans. As of December 31, 2008, the Company was eligible to borrow up to $4.2
billion through the Discount Window. The eligible amount is reduced dollar for dollar by borrowings under the TAF program. During 2008, the Company did not borrow funds from the Discount Window.       Federal Reserve s Term Auction Facility       The Federal
Reserve s TAF is designed to help increase liquidity in the U.S. credit markets. The Federal Reserve auctions collateral-backed short-term loans under TAF. The auctions allow financial institutions to borrow funds at an interest rate below the
Federal Reserve s discount rate. As of December 31, 2008, the Company was eligible to borrow up to $2.1 billion under the TAF. The eligible amount is reduced dollar for dollar by borrowings made under the Discount Window. During 2008, the
Company did not borrow funds through the TAF.       Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility       In December of 2008, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York ( FRBNY ), the U.S. Treasury and the Federal Reserve Board announced its intentions to launch the Term
Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility ( TALF ). TALF is a funding facility that will help financial markets and institutions meet the credit needs of households and small businesses and thus to support overall economic growth in the
current period of severe financial strains by supporting the issuance of asset-backed securities ( ABS ) collateralized by student loans, auto loans, credit card loans, loans guaranteed by the Small Business Administration
( SBA ), as well as certain types of mortgage loans. Under the current specification of the TALF, the FRBNY will lend up to $1 trillion on a non-recourse basis to holders of certain AAA-rated ABS backed by newly and recently originated
consumer and small business loans, as well as commercial mortgage-backed securities, private-label residential mortgage-backed securities, and other asset-backed securities. The FRBNY will lend an amount equal to the market value of the ABS less a
haircut and will be secured at all times by the ABS. The U.S. Treasury will provide credit protection to the FRBNY in connection with the TALF. As of the date of this report, it is expected that TALF will commence operations during March 2009. As of
the date of this report it is undetermined whether the Company will desire to participate in the TALF program. Such determination will be made after the final terms and conditions of TALF are released.       Funding Obligations        Information regarding the Company s
funding obligations is disclosed in Tables 11 and 12. Table 11 reflects the costs of short term borrowings of the Company as of and for each of the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Table 12 summarizes the amounts and maturities of
the contractual funding obligations of the Company, including off-balance sheet funding obligations.         
   63   

Table of Contents  

    Table 11: Short Term Borrowings        

(1)      
    In 2008, the Company repaid certain borrowings under lines of credit associated with securitizations of auto consumer
loans.         Table 12 summarizes the amounts and maturities of the contractual funding obligations of the Company, including off-balance sheet
funding.       Table 12: Contractual Funding Obligations        

(1)  
  Includes only those interest bearing deposits which have a contractual maturity date.     

(2)  
  Other borrowings includes secured borrowings for the Company s on-balance sheet auto loan securitizations, junior subordinated capital income securities and debentures, FHLB
advances, federal funds purchased and resale agreements and other short-term borrowings.     

(3)  
  Includes scheduled maturities of the external investors  interest in securitizations.         Corporation Shelf Registration Statement       As of December 31, 2008, the Corporation had an effective shelf
registration statement under which the Corporation from time to time may offer and sell an indeterminate aggregate amount of senior or subordinated debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares representing preferred stock, common stock,
warrants, trust preferred securities, junior subordinated debt securities, guarantees of trust preferred securities and certain back-up obligations, purchase contracts and units. There is no limit under this shelf registration statement to the
amount or number of such securities that the Corporation may offer and sell. Under SEC rules, the Automatic Shelf Registration Statement expires three years after filing. Accordingly, the Corporation must file a new Automatic Shelf Registration
Statement at least once every three years. The Automatic Shelf Registration Statement must be updated by May 2009 to remain effective.       Borrowing
Capacity       The Company has access to a variety of established funding sources. Table 13 illustrates details of the Company s Global Bank Note
Program, FHLB Advance capacity, securitization warehouses and conduits and government programs as of December 31, 2008.         
   64   

Table of Contents  

    Table 13: Borrowing Capacity        

(1)  
  All funding sources are non-revolving except for the Capital One Auto Loan Facilities. Funding availability under all other sources is subject to market conditions. Capacity is the
maximum amount that can be borrowed. Availability is the amount that can still be borrowed against the facility.     

(2)  
  Maturity date refers to the date the facility terminates, where applicable.     

(3)  
  There are no effective or final maturity dates on the available lines for FHLB Advances. The ability to draw down funding is based on membership status, and the amount is dependent
upon the Banks  ability to post collateral.     

(4)  
  Securitization committed capacity was established at various dates and is scheduled to terminate between 03/09 and 09/11.         Covenants       In connection with the issuance of certain of its trust
preferred capital securities, the Company has entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant ( RCC ) granting certain rights to the holders of  covered debt,  as defined in the RCC, that prohibit the repayment, redemption or
purchase of the trust preferred capital securities except, with limited exceptions, to the extent that the Company has received specified amounts of proceeds from the sale of certain qualifying securities. Currently, the Company s covered debt
is its 5.35% Subordinated Notes due May1, 2014. For more information regarding this covenant, reference is made to the RCC entered into by the Corporation in connection with the issuances of such trust preferred capital securities, which are filed
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission under cover of Forms 8-K. The Company will provide a copy of the RCC to holders of the covered debt upon request made to Investor Relations.      The terms of the lease and credit facility agreements related to certain other borrowings and operating leases in Table 12 require several financial covenants (including
performance measures and equity ratios) to be met. If these covenants are not met, there may be an acceleration of the payment due dates noted above. As of December 31, 2008, the Company was not in default of any such covenants.       Equity       The Company may also access the equity markets from time to
time to raise additional liquidity. During 2008 the Company issued approximately 15.5 million common shares in a secondary offering, raising $760.8 million in 2008.      The Company, as noted above, issued 3,555,199 preferred shares to the U.S. Treasury under the CPP, raising $3.55 billion in 2008.       IX. Market Risk Management         Interest Rate Risk        The management of interest rate risk, or the risk that earnings will be diminished by changes in interest rates, is fundamental for banking institutions. Like other banks, the Company borrows money from other
institutions and depositors, which it uses to make loans to customers and to invest in debt securities and other earning assets. The Company earns interest on these loans and assets and pays interest on the money it borrows from institutions and
depositors. If the rate of interest it pays on its borrowings and deposits increases more than the rate of interest it earns on its assets, the Company s net interest income, and therefore its earnings, will be diminished. The Company s
earnings could also be negatively impacted if the interest rates it charges on its earning assets fall more quickly than the rates it pays on its borrowings and deposits. Changes in interest rates and competitor responses to those changes may affect
the rate of customer payments or pre-payments for mortgages and auto and installment loans and commercial loans and may affect the balances customers carry on their credit cards. These changes can reduce the overall yield on its earning asset
portfolio. Changes in interest rates and competitor responses to these changes may also impact customer decisions to maintain balances in the deposit accounts they have with the Company. These changes may require the Company to replace withdrawn
balances with higher cost alternative sources of funding.         
   65   

Table of Contents  

   In addition to the impact to current earnings, interest rate risk also refers to changes in the net present value of
assets and off-balance sheet positions less liabilities (termed  economic value of equity ) due to interest rate changes. Economic value of equity could be affected to the extent that the market value of the Company s assets,
liabilities and off-balance sheet positions do not respond equally to changes in interest rates.      The Company s measurement of interest rate risk
considers both earnings and market value exposures. The consolidated balance sheet and all off-balance sheet positions are included in the analysis. The analysis reflects known balances and contractual maturities when available. Balance sheet
positions lacking contractual maturities and those with a likelihood of maturity prior to their contractual term are assumed to mature consistent with business line expectations or, when available in the case of marketable securities, market
expectations. As of December 31, 2008, the Company s Asset/Liability Management Policy limited the change in projected 12-month earnings due to a gradual +/-200 basis points change in interest rates over the course of nine months to less
than 5% of base net interest income. The measurement of impact to current earnings includes the change in net interest income and the change in the valuation of mortgage servicing rights driven by the change in interest rates. Given the absolute low
level of interest rates that prevailed as of December 31, 2008 and the inability for market rates to fall below 0%, the declining rate scenario reflects a gradual 50 basis point rate decline versus the customary 200 basis point scenario. As of
December 31, 2008 the Company estimated a 0.4% increase in 12-month net interest income for a gradual 200 basis point rate increase and a 0.2% reduction in 12-month net interest income for a gradual 50 basis point rate decline.      In addition to limits related to possible changes in 12-month net interest income, as of December 31, 2008 the Asset/Liability Management Policy limited the pre-tax
change in economic value of equity due to instantaneous parallel rate shocks of 200 basis points to less than 12%. As of December 31, 2008, the estimated reduction in economic value of equity due to an adverse 200 basis point rate shock was
4.3%.      The precision of the measures used to manage interest rate risk is limited due to the inherent uncertainty of the underlying forecast assumptions.
These measures do not consider the impact of the effects of changes in the overall level of economic activity associated with various interest rate scenarios. In addition, the measurement of interest rate sensitivity includes assumptions on the
ability of management to take action to mitigate further exposure to changes in interest rates, including, within legal and competitive constraints, the re-pricing of interest rates on outstanding credit card loans and deposits.      The Company manages and mitigates its interest rate sensitivity through several techniques, which include, but are not limited to, changing the maturity and re-pricing
characteristics of various balance sheet categories and by entering into interest rate derivatives.      Table 14 reflects the interest rate repricing schedule
for earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities as of December 31, 2008.       Table 14: Interest Rate Sensitivity        
       
   66   

Table of Contents  

(1)  
  Mortgage loans held for sale line item excludes the related lower of cost or market adjustments.          Foreign Exchange Risk        The Company is exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates which may impact translated
income and expense associated with foreign operations. In order to limit earnings exposure to foreign exchange risk, the Company s Asset/Liability Management Policy requires that material foreign currency denominated transactions be hedged. As
of December 31, 2008, the estimated reduction in 12-month earnings due to adverse foreign exchange rate movements corresponding to a 95% probability is less than 2%. The precision of this estimate is also limited due to the inherent uncertainty
of the underlying forecast assumptions.        Derivative Instruments        The Company enters into interest rate swap agreements in order to manage interest rate exposure. In most cases, this exposure is related to the funding of fixed rate assets with floating rate obligations, including
off-balance sheet securitizations. The Company also enters into forward foreign currency exchange contracts to reduce sensitivity to changing foreign currency exchange rates. The hedging of foreign currency exchange rates is limited to certain
intercompany obligations related to international operations. These derivatives expose the Company to certain credit risks. The Company has established policies and limits, as well as collateral agreements, to manage credit risk related to
derivative instruments.      Additional information regarding derivative instruments can be found in Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 17 .       X. Capital         Federal Reserve and OCC Capital Standards        The Company is
subject to capital adequacy guidance adopted by the Federal Reserve, and CONA and COBNA are subject to capital adequacy guidelines adopted by the OCC. The capital adequacy guidelines set minimum risk-based and leverage capital requirements that are
based on quantitative and qualitative measures of their assets and off-balance sheet items. The Federal Reserve holds the Company to similar minimum capital requirements. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can result in possible
additional, mandatory or discretionary actions by the regulators that, if undertaken, could have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial statements.      Under these guidelines, a bank s or a holding company s assets and certain specified off-balance sheet commitments and obligations are assigned to various risk categories. A bank s or holding
company s capital, in turn, is classified in one of three tiers. Tier 1 capital includes, among other things, common equity, non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, an eligible amount of cumulative perpetual preferred stock at the
holding company level, and minority interests in equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, less goodwill and certain other deductions. Tier 2 capital includes, among other things, perpetual preferred stock not qualified as Tier 1
capital, a certain amount of subordinated debt and the allowable portion of allowances for loan and lease losses, subject to certain limitations. Tier 3 capital includes qualifying unsecured subordinated debt.      Banks and bank holding companies currently are required to maintain Tier 1 capital and the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital equal to at least 4% and 8%,
respectively, of their total risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of credit). The federal banking agencies, however, may set higher capital requirements for an individual bank or bank holding
company when a bank s particular circumstances warrant.      The federal banking agencies also require incorporation of market components into regulatory
capital computations. Under the market risk requirements, capital is allocated to support the amount of market risk related to a financial institution s ongoing trading activities.      In addition, the federal banking agencies have established minimum leverage (Tier 1 capital to adjusted average total assets) guidelines for banks within their regulatory jurisdiction. These guidelines provide
for a minimum leverage ratio of 3% for banks that meet certain specified criteria, including excellent asset quality, high liquidity, low interest rate exposure and the highest regulatory rating. Banks not meeting these criteria are required to
maintain a leverage ratio of 4%.         
   67   

Table of Contents  

   From time to time, the regulators propose changes and amendments to, and issue interpretations of, risk-based capital
guidelines and related reporting instructions. Such proposals or interpretations could, if implemented in the future, affect the Company s or each of the Bank s reported capital ratios and net risk-adjusted assets. For additional
information on capital guidelines, see Part I, Item 1  Supervision and Regulation.       As of December 31, 2008, the Banks each exceeded
the minimum regulatory requirements to which it was subject. Each of the Banks was considered  well-capitalized  under applicable capital adequacy guidelines. Also as of December 31, 2008, the Company was considered
 well-capitalized  under Federal Reserve capital standards for bank holding companies and, therefore, exceeded all minimum capital requirements. There have been no conditions or events since that we believe would have changed the capital
category of the Company or either of the Banks.      Failure to meet applicable capital guidelines could subject the Company or the Banks to a variety of
enforcement remedies available to the regulators, including a limitation on the ability to pay dividends and the issuance of a capital directive to increase capital, and in the case of the Banks, the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC (in
severe cases) and the appointment of a conservator or receiver. Failure to meet these capital guidelines could also prevent the Company or the Banks from engaging in the expanded activities permitted for bank holding companies and banks under the
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.        Prompt Corrective Action        In general, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 ( FDICIA ) subjects banks to significantly increased regulation and supervision. Among other things, FDICIA requires federal banking agencies to take
 prompt corrective action  in respect of banks that do not meet minimum capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital ratio levels: well-capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, and
critically undercapitalized. Under applicable regulations, a bank is considered to be well-capitalized if it maintains a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6%, a Tier 1 leverage
capital ratio of at least 5% and is not subject to any supervisory agreement, order, or directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital reserve. A bank is considered to be adequately capitalized if it maintains a total
risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 4%, a Tier 1 leverage capital ratio of at least 4% (3% for certain highly rated institutions), and does not otherwise meet the well-capitalized
definition. The three undercapitalized categories are based upon the amount by which a bank falls below the ratios applicable to adequately capitalized institutions. The capital categories are determined solely for purposes of applying FDICIA s
prompt corrective action provisions, as discussed below, and such capital categories may not constitute an accurate representation of each of the Bank s overall financial condition or prospects. As of December 31, 2008, COBNA and CONA each
met the requirements for a  well capitalized  institution.      Under FDICIA s prompt corrective action system, a bank in the undercapitalized
category must submit a capital restoration plan guaranteed by its parent company. The liability of the parent company under any such guarantee is limited to the lesser of 5% of the bank s assets at the time it became undercapitalized, or the
amount which is necessary (or would have been necessary) to bring the institution into compliance with all capital standards applicable with respect to such institution as of the time the institution fails to comply with the plan. A bank in the
undercapitalized category also is subject to limitations in numerous areas including, but not limited to, asset growth, acquisitions, branching, new business lines, acceptance of brokered deposits and borrowings from the Federal Reserve.
Progressively more burdensome restrictions are applied to banks in the undercapitalized category that fail to submit or implement a capital plan and to banks that are in the significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized categories.
In addition, a bank s primary federal banking agency is authorized to downgrade the bank s capital category to the next lower category upon a determination that the bank is in an unsafe or unsound condition or is engaged in an unsafe or
unsound practice. An unsafe or unsound practice can include receipt by the institution of a less than satisfactory rating on its most recent examination with respect to its asset quality, management, earnings or liquidity.  Critically
undercapitalized  institutions are subject to the appointment of a receiver or conservator. Under FDICIA, absent an FDIC exemption, from the date 60 days after an institution becomes or is deemed to become  critically
undercapitalized  it may not make any payments of principal or interest on its subordinated debt.      As an additional means to identify problems in the
financial management of depository institutions, FDICIA requires regulators to establish certain non-capital safety and soundness standards. The standards relate generally to operations and management, asset quality, interest rate exposure and
executive compensation. The agencies are authorized to take action against institutions that fail to meet such standards.        Subprime Lending
Guidelines        As discussed in the Supervision and Regulation section on page 10, COBNA treats a portion of its loans as  subprime  under the
Guidelines issued by the four federal banking agencies that comprise the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council ( FFIEC ), and have assessed its capital and allowance for loan and lease losses accordingly.         
   68   

Table of Contents  

   Under the Guidelines, COBNA exceeded the minimum capital adequacy guidelines as of December 31, 2008. Also, as of
December 
31, 2008, none of CONA s on-balance sheet assets were treated as  subprime  for purposes of the Subprime Guidelines.         
 Dividend Policy        The declaration and payment of dividends, as well as the amount thereof, are subject to the discretion of the Board of
Directors of the Company and will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. As a holding company, our ability to pay dividends is
largely dependent upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our subsidiaries. Regulatory restrictions exist that limit the ability of COBNA and CONA to transfer funds to the Company. As of December 31, 2008, retained earnings of
COBNA and CONA of $239.3 million and zero, respectively, were available for payment of dividends to the Company without prior approval by the regulators. Additionally, applicable provisions that may be contained in our borrowing agreements or the
borrowing agreements of our subsidiaries may limit our subsidiaries  ability to pay dividends to us or our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. There can be no assurance that the Company will declare and pay any dividends. In addition,
U.S. Treasury consent is required to increase our dividend above its current quarterly level of $0.375 per share until November 14, 2011, under the terms of the CPP.       
  
   69   

Table of Contents  

    XI. Tabular Summary        TABLE A STATEMENTS OF AVERAGE BALANCES, INCOME AND EXPENSE, YIELDS AND RATES       Table A provides average balance sheet data and an
analysis of net interest income, net interest spread (the difference between the yield on earning assets and the cost of interest-bearing liabilities) and net interest margin for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.       
       
   70   

Table of Contents  

(2)  
  Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation.     

(3)  
  Based on continuing operations.     

(4)  
  Non-accrual loans are included in their respective loan categories.           
   71   

Table of Contents  

    TABLE B INTEREST VARIANCE ANALYSIS        

(1)  
  The change in interest due to both volume and rates has been allocated in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each. The changes in income
and expense are calculated independently for each line in the table. The totals for the volume and yield/rate columns are not the sum of the individual lines.     

(2)  
  Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation.     

(3)  
  Based on continuing operations.           
   72   

Table of Contents  

    TABLE C MANAGED LOAN PORTFOLIO        
       
   73   

Table of Contents  

74   

Table of Contents  

    TABLE D COMPOSITION OF REPORTED LOAN PORTFOLIO        
     TABLE E DELINQUENCIES       Table E shows the Company s loan delinquency trends for the periods presented on a reported and managed basis.       

75   

Table of Contents  

    TABLE F NET CHARGE-OFFS       Table F shows the Company s net charge-offs for the periods presented on a reported and managed basis.       

(1)  
  Based on continuing operations.         TABLE G NONPERFORMING ASSETS
      Table G shows a summary of nonperforming assets for the periods indicated.       

(1)  
  Our policy is not to classify credit card loans as nonperforming loans. Credit card loans continue to accrue finance charges and fees until charged-off at 180-days.

(2)  
  Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.           
   76   

Table of Contents  

    TABLE H SUMMARY OF ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN AND LEASE LOSSES       Table H sets forth activity in the allowance for loan and lease losses for the periods indicated.       

(1)  
  Does not include charge-offs of $22.3 million and $29.2 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively, relating to certain loans which were segregated into pools apart from the remaining
portfolio and accounted for under Statement of Position 03-3,  Accounting for Certain Loans or Debt Securities Acquired in a Transfer  ( SOP 03-3 ).           
   77   

Table of Contents  

Item 7A.   
      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk             The information required by Item 7A is included in Item 7,  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Management.          
   78   

Table of Contents  

Item 8.   
      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data              CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS        
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   79   

Table of Contents  

    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME        
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   80   

Table of Contents  

    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY        
       
   81   

Table of Contents  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   82   

Table of Contents  

    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS        
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   83   

Table of Contents  

    Note 1        Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies        Business       Capital
One Financial Corporation (the  Corporation ) is a diversified financial services company whose banking and non-banking subsidiaries market a variety of financial products and services. The Corporation s principal subsidiaries are:

Capital One Bank (USA), National Association ( COBNA ) which currently offers credit and debit card products, other lending products and deposit products.

Capital One, National Association ( CONA ) which offers a broad spectrum of banking products and financial services to consumers, small businesses and
commercial clients.         During 2008, the Corporation completed several reorganizations and consolidations to streamline operations and
regulatory relationships. On January 1, Capital One Auto Finance Inc. ( COAF ) moved from a direct subsidiary of the Corporation to become a direct operating subsidiary of CONA. In connection with the COAF move, one of COAF s
direct operating subsidiaries, Onyx Acceptance Corporation ( Onyx ), became a direct subsidiary of the Corporation. On March 1, the Corporation converted Capital One Bank from a Virginia-state chartered bank to a national association
called Capital One Bank (USA), National Association ( COBNA ). On March 8, Superior Savings of New England, N.A. ( Superior ) merged with and into CONA. Both COBNA and CONA are primarily regulated by the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency (the  OCC ). In May 2008, we consolidated the business and operations of two registered broker-dealers, Capital One Securities, LLC (dba Capital One Investments, LLC) and Capital One Investment Services
Corporation (formerly NFB Investment Services Corporation), into Capital One Investments Services Corporation. In addition, in May 2008, we consolidated the business and operations of three insurance agencies, Capital One Agency Corp., GreenPoint
Agency, Inc. and Hibernia Insurance Agency, LLC into Green Point Agency, Inc., which is now known as Capital One Agency LLC.      On December 4, 2008, the
Company announced its intention to acquire Chevy Chase Bank F.S.B. in a cash and stock transaction valued at approximately $520 million. On February 13, 2009, the Company received approval from the Federal Reserve to acquire all of the shares
of Chevy Chase F.S.B. and certain of its subsidaires. The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2009.      During 2007, Capital One F.S.B.
and North Fork Bank merged with and into CONA.      In the third quarter of 2007, the Company shut down the mortgage origination operations of its wholesale
mortgage banking unit, GreenPoint Mortgage ( GreenPoint ), an operating subsidiary of CONA. Additional information can be found in Note 2.      The
Corporation and its subsidiaries are hereafter collectively referred to as the  Company .       Basis of Presentation       The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ( GAAP )
that require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from these estimates.      The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Company in which it has a controlling financial interest. Investments in unconsolidated entities where
we have the ability to exercise significant influence over the operations of the investee are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. This includes interests in variable interest entities ( VIEs ) where we are not the primary
beneficiary. Investments not meeting the criteria for equity method accounting are accounted for using the cost method of accounting. Investments in unconsolidated entities are included in other assets, and our share of income or loss is recorded in
other non-interest income. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Certain prior years  amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2008 presentation. All amounts in the following notes, excluding per
share data, are presented in thousands.        Special Purpose Entities and Variable Interest Entities        Special purpose entities ( SPEs ) are broadly defined as legal entities structured for a particular purpose. There are two different accounting frameworks
applicable to SPEs: the qualifying SPE ( QSPE ) framework under Statement of Financial Accounting Standard ( SFAS ) No. 140,  Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities
 ( SFAS 140 ) and the VIE framework under Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46 (Revised 2003),  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities  ( FIN 46(R) ).       QSPEs.  QSPEs are passive entities that are commonly used in mortgage, credit card, auto and installment loan securitization transactions. SFAS 140 establishes the
criteria an entity must satisy to be a QSPE which includes restrictions on the types of assets a QSPE may hold, limits on repurchase of assets, the use of derivatives and financial guarantees, and the level of discretion a servicer  
       
   84   

Table of Contents  

may exercise to collect receivables. SPEs that meet the criteria for QSPE status are not required to be consolidated. The Company uses the QSPE model to
conduct off-balance sheet securitization activities. See Note 18 for more information on the Company s off-balance sheet securitization activities.      In April 2008, The Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) voted to eliminate the concept of QSPEs from the accounting guidance. On September 15, 2008, the FASB issued exposure drafts to amend SFAS 140 and FIN46R. The
two proposed Statements would significantly change accounting for transfers of financials assets, due to elimination of the concept of a QSPE, and would change the criteria for determining whether to consolidate a VIE. The proposals are currently in
a public comment period and are subject to change. As the proposals stand, however, the change would have a significant impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements as a result of the loss of sales treatment for assets previously
sold to a QSPE, as well as for future sales. As of December 31, 2008, the total assets of QSPEs to which the Company has transferred and received sales treatment were $45.9 billion.       VIEs:  Special purpose entities that are not QSPEs are considered for consolidation in accordance with FIN46(R), which defines a VIE as an entity that (1) lacks sufficient equity to finance its activities
without additional subordinated financial support; (2) has equity owners that lack the ability to make significant decisions about the entity; or (3) has equity owners do not have the obligation to absorb expected losses or the right to
receive expected returns. In general, a VIE may be formed as a corporation, partnership, limited liability corporation, or any other legal structure used to conduct activities or hold assets. A VIE often holds financial assets, including loans or
receivables, real estate or other property.      The Company consolidates a VIE if the Company is considered to be its primary beneficiary. The primary
beneficiary is subject to absorbing the majority of the expected losses from the VIE s activities, is entitled to receive a majority of the entities residual returns, or both.      The Company, in the ordinary course of business, has involvement with or retains interests in VIEs in connection with some of its securitization activities, servicing activities, the purchase or sale of
mortgage-backed and other asset backed securities in connection with its investment portfolio. The Company also makes loans to VIEs that hold debt, equity, real estate or other assets. In certain instances, the Company provides guarantees to VIEs or
holders of variable interests in VIEs. See Note 13   Mortgage Servicing Rights; Note 18   Securitizations; Note 19   Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees; and Note 20   Other Variable Interest Entities for more detail on the
Company s involvement and exposure related to non-consolidated VIEs.       Recent Accounting Pronouncements       In January 2009, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ( FSP ) No. EITF 99-20-1,   Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased Beneficial
Interests and Beneficial Interests That Continue to Be Held by a Transferor in Securitized Financial Assets.   ( FSP EITF 99-20 ) The FSP was issued to achieve more consistent determination of whether an other-than-temporary
impairment has occurred. The FSP also retains and emphasizes the objective of an other-than-temporary impairment assessment and the related disclosure requirements in SFAS No. 115,   Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity
Securities,   ( SFAS 115 ) and other related guidance. FSP EITF 99-20 emphasizes that any other-than-temporary impairment resulting from the application of SFAS 115 or EITF 99-20 shall be recognized in earnings equal to the entire
difference between the investment s cost and its fair value at the balance sheet date of the reporting period for which the assessment is made. FSP EITF 99-20 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods ending after December 15,
2008, and shall be applied prospectively. Retrospective application to a prior interim or annual reporting period is not permitted. The adoption of FSP EITF 99-20 did not have impact on consolidated earnings or financial position of the Company. See
Note 4 for additional details.      In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8,  Disclosures by Public Entities (Enterprises) about
Transfers of Financial Assets and Interests in Variable Interest Entities,  ( FSP FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8 ). FSP FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8 amends SFAS 140 and FIN 46(R). This FSP requires public companies to provide additional
disclosures about their involvement with variable interest entities. This FSP is effective for the first reporting period ending after December 15, 2008. This FSP does not impact the consolidated earnings or financial position of the Company.
See Note 20 for additional detail.      In June 2008, the FASB issued FSP EITF 03-6-1,   Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment
Transactions Are Participating Securities.   The FSP addresses whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participating securities prior to vesting and therefore need to be included in the earnings allocation in
calculating earnings per share under the two-class method described in SFAS No. 128,   Earnings per Share .  ( SFAS 128 ) The FSP requires companies to treat unvested share-based payment awards that have non-forfeitable
rights to dividend or dividend equivalents as a separate class of securities in calculating earnings per share. The FSP is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008; earlier application is not permitted. We do not expect
adoption of FSP EITF 03-6-1 to have a material effect on our results of operations or earnings per share.      In September 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS
133-1 and FIN 45-4,   Disclosures about Credit Derivatives and Certain Guarantees: An Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 and   FASB Interpretation   No. 45; and Clarification of the Effective Date of FASB Statement
No. 161.  FSP FAS 133-1 and FIN 45-4 requires enhanced disclosures about credit derivatives and guarantees and amends FASB Interpretation No. 45,   Guarantor s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including
Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness   
       
   85   

Table of Contents  

of Others   ( FIN 45 ) to exclude credit derivative instruments accounted for at fair value under SFAS 133. The FSP is effective for
financial statements issued for reporting periods ending after November 15, 2008. The adoption of FSP FAS 133-1 did not have a material impact on the consolidated earnings or financial position of the Company. FIN 45-4 only requires additional
disclosures concerning guarantees, which did not have an impact on the consolidated earnings or financial position of the Company because it only amends the disclosure requirements. See Note 19 for additional detail.      Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  ( SFAS 157 ) for all financial assets and liabilities and
for nonfinancial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Under FSP No. FAS 157-2,  Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157  (FSP 157-2), the Company elected to defer the adoption of SFAS 157 for nonfinancial
assets and nonfinancial liabilities measured on a nonrecurring basis until January 1, 2009. The adoption of SFAS 157 for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities measured on a nonrecurring basis is not expected to have a material impact
on the Company. SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in GAAP, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The initial adoption of SFAS 157 did not have a material impact on the consolidated
earnings and financial position of the Company. There are no material assets or liabilities recognized or disclosed at fair value for which the Company has not applied the provisions of SFAS 157. See Note 12 for additional detail.      Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted SFAS No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Liabilities  ( SFAS 159 ). SFAS 159
permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value with changes in fair value included in current earnings. The election is made on specified election dates, can be made on an instrument by
instrument basis, and is irrevocable. The initial adoption of SFAS 159 did not have a material impact on the consolidated earnings and financial position of the Company. See Note 12 for additional detail.      In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,  Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities-an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 ,
( SFAS 161 ). This Statement changes the disclosure requirements for derivative and hedging activities. Entities are required to provide enhanced disclosures about (a) how and why an entity uses derivative instruments, (b) how
derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS 133 and its related interpretations, and (c) how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entity s financial position, financial performance, and
cash flows. This Statement is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after November 15, 2008. The adoption of SFAS 161 will not have an impact on the consolidated earnings or financial position of
the Company because it only amends the disclosure requirements for derivatives and hedged items.      In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,
 Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No.  51, ( SFAS 160 ). This Statement applies to all entities that prepare consolidated financial statements, except not-for-profit
organizations, but will affect only those entities that have an outstanding noncontrolling interest in one or more subsidiaries or that deconsolidate a subsidiary. This Statement amends ARB 51 to establish accounting and reporting standards for the
noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. It clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity that should be reported as equity in the
consolidated financial statements. This Statement is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15, 2008. The adoption of SFAS 160 did not have a material impact on the consolidated
earnings or financial position of the Company.      In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R),  Business Combinations  ( SFAS
141(R) ). This Statement replaces SFAS 141,  Business Combinations.  It retains the fundamental requirements in SFAS 141; however, the scope is broader than that of SFAS 141 by applying to all transactions and other events in which one
entity obtains control over one or more other businesses. SFAS 141(R) requires an acquirer to recognize the assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the acquisition date, at their fair values as of
that date, with limited exceptions, thereby replacing SFAS 141 s cost-allocation process. This Statement also changes the requirements for recognizing acquisition related costs, restructuring costs, and assets acquired and liabilities assumed
arising from contingencies. It also changes the accounting for step acquisitions. The Company will apply the provisions of SFAS 141(R) to the Chevy Chase Bank F.S.B., acquisition.      In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No 87, 88, 106, and 132(R) ,
( SFAS 158 ). SFAS 158 requires plan sponsors of defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans (collectively,  defined benefit plans ) to recognize the funded status of their defined benefit plans in the
Consolidated Balance Sheet, measure the fair value of plan assets and benefit obligations as of the date of the fiscal year-end Consolidated Balance Sheet, and provide additional disclosures. On December 31, 2006, the Company adopted the
recognition and disclosure provisions of SFAS 158. The effect of adopting SFAS 158 on the Company s financial condition for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, has been included in the accompanying consolidated financial
statements. SFAS 158 did not have an effect on the Company s consolidated financial condition at December 31, 2005. SFAS 158 s provisions regarding the change in the measurement date of defined benefit plans are effective for fiscal
years ending after December 15, 2008. The adoption of SFAS 158 did not have a material impact on the consolidated earnings or financial position of the Company. See Note 11 for further discussion.         
   86   

Table of Contents  

   In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an Interpretation of FASB
Statement No. 109,  ( FIN 48 ). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting treatment for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise s financial statements in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109,  Accounting for
Income Taxes.  This interpretation prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. This interpretation also
provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition. The Company adopted the provisions of FIN 48 effective January 1, 2007. As a result of adoption, the Company
recorded a $29.7 million reduction in retained earnings.      In March 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 156,  Accounting for Servicing of Financial
Assets-an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140,  ( SFAS 156 ). SFAS 156 amends SFAS 140, with respect to the accounting for separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities. SFAS 156 requires an entity to recognize a
servicing asset or servicing liability each time it undertakes an obligation to service a financial asset by entering into a servicing contract in certain situations prescribed by SFAS 156. All separately recognized servicing assets and servicing
liabilities are to be initially measured at fair value, if practicable, and SFAS 156 permits an entity to choose either the amortization method or fair value measurement method for subsequent measurement methods for each class of separately
recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities. SFAS 156 was effective as of the beginning of an entity s first fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006. The requirements for recognition and initial measurement of servicing
assets and servicing liabilities should be applied prospectively to all transactions after the effective date of this statement. As of January 1, 2007, the Company has adopted SFAS 156 and elected to measure its servicing assets and servicing
liabilities using the fair value measurement method. The Company has identified mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) relating to residential mortgage loans as a single class of servicing rights and has elected to apply fair value accounting to these
MSRs. Presently, this class represents all of the Company s material servicing rights. The adoption of SFAS 156 did not have a material impact on the consolidated earnings or financial position of the Company.      In February 2006, the FASB SFAS No. 155,  Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments-an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140,
 ( SFAS 155 ). SFAS 155 amends SFAS 133, and SFAS 140 .  SFAS 155 resolves issues addressed in SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No. D1,  Application of Statement 133 to Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets. 
SFAS 155 permits fair value remeasurement for any hybrid financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation, clarifies which interest-only strips and principal-only strips are not subject to the
requirements of SFAS 133, establishes a requirement to evaluate interests in securitized financial assets to identify interests that are freestanding derivatives or that are hybrid financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative requiring
bifurcation, clarifies that concentrations of credit risk in the form of subordination are not embedded derivatives, and amends SFAS 140 to eliminate the prohibition on a qualifying special-purpose entity from holding a derivative financial
instrument that pertains to a beneficial interest other than another derivative financial instrument. SFAS 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired or issued after the beginning of an entity s first fiscal year that begins after
September 15, 2006. The adoption of SFAS 155 did not have a material impact on the consolidated earnings or financial position of the Company.      Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123(R) using the modified-prospective-transition method. Under that transition method, compensation cost recognized during the year ended
December 31, 2006 includes: (a) compensation cost for all share-based payments granted prior to, but not yet vested as of January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS
No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation ( SFAS 123 ) and (b) compensation cost for all share-based payments granted subsequent to January 1, 2006, based on the grant-date fair valued estimated in accordance with the
provisions of SFAS 123(R). The Company voluntarily adopted the expense recognition provisions of SFAS 123, prospectively to all awards granted, modified, or settled after January 1, 2003. Prior to January 1, 2003, the Company applied
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  and related Interpretations in accounting for its stock based compensation plans. Results for prior periods have not been restated.      The Company has two active stock-based compensation plans, one employee plan and one non-employee director plan, which are described more fully in Note 9. Under these
plans, the grants to retirement eligible associates continue to vest after the associate retires. For awards granted prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company had been and will continue to recognize the compensation cost of those awards over
the full vesting periods or up to the date of retirement.      As a result of adopting SFAS 123(R) on January 1, 2006, the Company s income before
income taxes and net income for the year ended December 31, 2006 are $35.3 million and $23.3 million lower, respectively, than if it had continued to account for share-based compensation under SFAS 123. Basic and diluted earnings per share for
2006 would have been $7.87 and $7.69, respectively, if the Company had not adopted SFAS 123(R), compared to reported basic and diluted earnings per share of $7.80 and $7.62, respectively.         
   87   

Table of Contents  

   Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company presented all tax benefits of deductions resulting from the exercise of
stock options as operating cash flows in the Statement of Cash Flows. SFAS 123(R) requires the cash flows resulting from the tax benefits resulting from tax deductions in excess of the compensation cost recognized for those options (excess tax
benefits) to be classified as financing cash flows.       Significant Accounting Policies         Cash and Cash Equivalents        Cash and cash equivalents includes cash and due from banks, federal funds sold and
resale agreements and interest-bearing deposits at other banks. Cash paid for interest for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $4.0 billion, $4.5 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively. Cash paid for income taxes for the years
ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $1.2 billion, $1.5 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively.        Securities Available for Sale   
     The Company considers the nature of investments in securities in order to determine the appropriate classification and currently treat investments in debt
securities as securities available for sale. These securities are stated at fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, reported as a component of cumulative other comprehensive income. The fair value of securities is based on
quoted market prices, or if quoted market prices are not available, then the fair value is estimated using the quoted market prices for similar securities, pricing models or discounted cash flow analyses, using observable market data where
available. The amortized cost of debt securities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. Such amortization or accretion is included in interest income. Realized gains and losses on sales of securities are
determined using the specific identification method. The Company evaluates its unrealized loss positions for impairment in accordance with SFAS 115, as amended by FSP No. 115-1,  The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and its
Application to Certain Investments  and EITF 99-20,  Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased Beneficial Interests and Beneficial Interests That Continue to Be Held by a Transferor in Securitized Financial Assets and FSP EITF
99-20.  As such, when there is other-than-temporary impairment, the Company recognizes an impairment loss in earnings equal to the entire difference between the investment s cost and its fair value. See Note 4 for additional details.
       Mortgage Loans Held for Sale        The Company
classifies loans originated with the intent of selling in the secondary market as held for sale. Loans originated for sale are primarily sold in the secondary market as whole loans. Whole loan sales are executed with either the servicing rights
being retained or released to the buyer. For sales where the loans are sold with the servicing released to the buyer, the gain or loss on the sale is equal to the difference between the proceeds received and the carrying value of the loans sold. If
the loans are sold with the servicing rights retained, the gain or loss on the sale is also impacted by the fair value attributed to the servicing rights. In the third quarter of 2007, the Company shut down the mortgage origination operations of its
wholesale mortgage banking unit, GreenPoint. The results of the mortgage origination operation of GreenPoint have been accounted for as discontinued operations and have been removed from the Company s results of continuing operations for all
periods presented. The results of GreenPoint s mortgage servicing business continue to be reported as part of the Company s continuing operations.      Mortgage loans held for sale are carried at the lower of aggregate cost, net of deferred fees, deferred origination costs and effects of hedge accounting, or fair value. The fair value of mortgage loans held for sale is determined using
current secondary market prices for loans with similar coupons, maturities and credit quality. The fair value of mortgage loans held for sale is impacted by changes in market interest rates. The exposure to changes in market interest rates is hedged
primarily by selling forward contracts on agency securities. These derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with changes in fair value being recorded in mortgage banking operations in current earnings. Also, changes in
the fair value of mortgage loans held for sale are recorded as an adjustment to the loans  carrying basis through mortgage banking operations income in current earnings.      Prior to the shutdown of GreenPoint, the Company entered into commitments to originate or purchase loans whereby the interest rate of the loan was determined prior to funding ( interest rate lock
commitment ). Interest rate lock commitments on mortgage loans that the Company intended to sell in the secondary market were considered freestanding derivatives. These derivatives were carried at fair value with changes in fair value reported
as a component of gain on sale of the loans. As of December 31, 2008, the Company has no loan commitments due to the shutdown of the mortgage origination operations of GreenPoint. See Note 17 for additional details on mortgage banking
derivatives.      As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the balance in mortgage loans held for sale was $68.5 million and $315.9 million, respectively.
        
   88   

Table of Contents  

     Loan Securitizations        The Company primarily securitizes credit card loans, auto loans and installment loans. Securitization provides the Company with a significant source of liquidity and favorable regulatory capital treatment for securitizations accounted for
as off-balance sheet arrangements. See Note 18 for additional detail.      Loan securitization involves the transfer of a pool of loan receivables to a trust
or other special purpose entity. The trust sells an undivided interest in the pool of loan receivables to third-party investors through the issuance of asset backed securities and distributes the proceeds to the Company as consideration for the
loans transferred. The Company removes loans from the reported financial statements for securitizations that qualify as sales in accordance with SFAS 140. Alternatively, when the transfer would not be considered a sale but rather a financing, the
assets will remain on the Company s reported financial statements with an offsetting liability recognized in the amount of proceeds received.      The
Company uses QSPEs to conduct off-balance sheet securitization activities and SPEs that are considered VIEs to conduct other securitization activities. See  Note 19   Loan Securitizations  for information regarding our continuing
involvement as transferor of assets to QSPEs and VIEs in accordance with the new disclosure requirements of FSP FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8. Additionally, refer to Note 1 for information regarding the proposed amendments to SFAS 140 and FIN 46(R).
     Interests in the securitized and sold loans may be retained in the form of subordinated interest-only strips, senior tranches, subordinated tranches, cash
collateral and spread accounts. The Company also retains a seller s interest in the receivables transferred to the trusts which is carried on a historical cost basis and classified as loans held for investment on the Reported Consolidated
Balance Sheet.      Gains on securitization transactions and fair value adjustments related to residual interests in securitizations are recognized in
servicing and securitizations income and amounts due from the trusts are included in accounts receivable from securitizations. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, accounts receivable from securitization totaled $6.34 billion and $4.72 billion.
This balance consists of retained residual interests that are recorded at estimated fair value and totaled $2.30 billion and $2.26 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The remaining balance relates to cash collections held at
financial institutions that are expected to be returned to the Company on future distribution dates, and principal collections accumulated for expected maturities of securitization transactions with the subsequent return of loan receivables.
     The gain on sale recorded from off-balance sheet securitizations is recorded based on the estimated fair value of the assets sold and retained and
liabilities incurred, and is recorded at the time of sale, net of transaction costs, in servicing and securitizations income. The related receivable is the interest-only strip, which is based on the present value of the estimated future cash flows
from excess finance charges and past-due fees over the sum of the return paid to security holders, estimated contractual servicing fees and credit losses. The interest-only strip, cash collateral and subordinated tranches are subject to substantial
credit, repayment and interest rate risks on transferred assets if the off-balance sheet loans are not paid when due. As such, the interest-only strip and subordinated retained interests are classified as trading assets in accordance with SFAS 155
and changes in the estimated fair value are recorded in servicing and securitization income. Additionally, the Company may also retain senior tranches in the securitization transactions which are considered to be higher investment grade securities
and subject to lower risk of loss. The retained senior tranches are classified as available for sale securities in accordance with SFAS 115 and changes in the estimated fair value are recorded in other comprehensive income.      The Company does not typically recognize servicing assets or servicing liabilities for servicing rights retained from credit card, auto loan and installment loan
securitizations since the servicing fee approximates adequate compensation to the Company for performing the servicing.        Loans Held for Investment
       Loans held for investment include consumer and commercial loans. Consumer loans include credit card, installment, auto and mortgage loans. Credit
card loans are reported at their principal amounts outstanding and include uncollected billed interest and fees.      All new originations of consumer and
commercial loans, except for certain mortgage loans previously originated under GreenPoint, are deemed to be held for investment at origination because management has the intent and ability to hold them for the foreseeable future or until maturity
or payoff. Management believes the foreseeable future is relatively short based on the weighted average life of the consumer loans and the homogeneous nature of the receivables. In determining the amount of loans held for investment, management
makes judgments about the Company s ability to fund these loans through means other than securitization, such as investments, deposits and other borrowings. Management assesses whether loans can continue to be held for investment on a quarterly
basis by considering capital levels and scheduled maturities of funding instruments used.         
   89   

Table of Contents  

   Consumer loan balances that are expected to be securitized in the next three months are accounted for as held for sale.
The loans that have been identified as held for sale are carried at the lower of aggregate cost or fair value and an allowance for loan losses is not provided for these loans. Management believes its ability to reasonably forecast the amount of
existing consumer loans that should be accounted for as held for sale is limited to three months from the balance sheet date because of the short-term nature of the assets, the revolving nature of the securitization structures and the fact that
securitizations that occur beyond three months will involve a significant proportion of consumer loans that have not yet been originated. The Company continues to include these loans in loans held for investment because separate classification in
the Reported Consolidated Balance Sheets and related impacts to the Reported Consolidated Statements of Income is considered immaterial to the Company s financial statements. Cash flows associated with loans that are originated with the intent
to hold for investment are classified as investing cash flow, regardless of a subsequent change of intent. Certain mortgage loans associated with the GreenPoint shut down, which were previously categorized as held for sale and marked at the lower of
aggregate cost or fair value, were transferred to held for investment at December 31, 2007. Cash flows associated with these loans were included in operating cash flows. All other loans are reported at their principal amounts outstanding.
       Nonperforming Assets        Nonperforming assets
include nonaccrual loans, impaired loans, certain restructured loans on which interest rates or terms of repayment have been materially revised, foreclosed and repossessed assets.      Commercial loans, consumer real estate and auto loans are placed in nonaccrual status at 90 days past due or sooner if, in management s opinion, there is doubt concerning full collectibility of both principal and
interest. All other consumer loans and small business credit card loans are not placed in nonaccrual status prior to charge-off.      At the time a loan is
placed on nonaccrual status, interest and fees accrued but not collected through the end of the previous quarter are systematically reversed and charged against income. Interest payments received on nonaccrual loans are applied to principal if there
is doubt as to the collectibility of the principal; otherwise, these receipts are recorded as interest income. A loan remains in nonaccrual status until it is current as to principal and interest and the borrower demonstrates the ability to fulfill
the contractual obligation.      Upon foreclosure or repossession, loans are adjusted, if necessary, to the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral
and transferred to other assets, net of a valuation allowance for selling costs. We estimate market values primarily based on appraisals when available or quoted market prices on liquid assets. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the balance of
foreclosed assets and repossessed assets were $89.0 million and $48.0 million, respectively, and $65.6 and $56.9 million, respectively.        Charge-offs
and Delinquencies        Commercial and small business loans are considered past due or delinquent based on contractual terms. Principal amounts
charge-off when amounts are deemed uncollectible and interest is reversed and charged against income when the loans are placed on nonaccrual status.      Credit card loans charge-off at 180 days past the statement cycle date and other consumer loans generally charge-off at 120 days past due or upon repossession of collateral. The entire balance of an account is contractually delinquent if
the minimum payment is not received by the specified due date on the customer s billing statement. Bankruptcies charge-off within 30 days of notification and deceased accounts charge-off within 60 days of notification. Fraudulent amounts are
charged to non-interest expense after a 60 day investigation period.      Net charge-offs represent principal losses net of current period principal
recoveries. Principal losses exclude accrued and unpaid interest income and fees and fraud losses. Interest income and fees accrued and not collected are reversed when the loan charges off or when placed in nonaccrual status. Costs to recover
previously charged-off loans are recorded as collection expenses in other non-interest expense.        Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses
       The allowance for loan and lease losses is maintained at the amount estimated to be sufficient to absorb probable principal losses, net of
principal recoveries (including recovery of collateral), inherent in the existing reported loan portfolios. The provision for loan and lease losses is the periodic cost of maintaining an adequate allowance. The amount of allowance necessary is based
on distinct allowance methodologies depending on the type of loans which include specifically identified criticized loans, migration analysis, forward loss curves and historical loss trends. In evaluating the sufficiency of the allowance for loan
and lease losses, management takes into consideration many factors including, but not limited to: recent trends in delinquencies and charge-offs including bankrupt, deceased and recovered amounts; forecasting uncertainties and size of credit risks;
the degree of risk inherent in the composition of the loan  
       
   90   

Table of Contents  

portfolio; economic conditions; legal and regulatory guidance; credit evaluations and underwriting policies; seasonality; and the value of collateral
supporting the loans. To the extent credit experience is not indicative of future performance or other assumptions used by management do not prevail, loss experience could differ significantly, resulting in either higher or lower future provision
for loan and lease losses, as applicable. The evaluation process for determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses and the periodic provisioning for estimated losses is undertaken on a quarterly basis, but may increase in frequency
should conditions arise that would require the Company s prompt attention. Conditions giving rise to such action are business combinations or other acquisitions or dispositions of large quantities of loans, dispositions of non-performing and
marginally performing loans by bulk sale or any development which may indicate a significant trend.      Commercial and small business loans are considered to
be impaired in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 114 when it is probable that all amounts due in accordance with the contractual terms will not be collected. Specific allowances are determined in accordance with SFAS 114. Impairment is measured
based on the present value of the loan s expected cash flows, the loan s observable market price or the fair value of the loan s collateral.      For purposes of determining impairment, consumer loans are collectively evaluated as they are considered to be comprised of large groups of smaller-balance homogeneous loans and therefore are not individually evaluated for impairment under
the provisions of SFAS 114.      Troubled debt restructurings ( TDR ) occur when the Company agrees to significantly modify the original terms of a
loan due to the deterioration in the financial condition of the borrower. The Company modified an immaterial amount of loans under TDRs in 2008. The Company had no TDRs in 2007.      As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the balance in the allowance for loan and lease losses was $4.5 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively. See Note 5 for additional detail.        Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets        The Company performs
annual impairment tests on goodwill and between annual tests if events occur or circumstances change in accordance with SFAS 142. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, goodwill of $12.0 billion and $12.8 billion, respectively, was included in the
Consolidated Balance Sheet. See Note 7 for additional detail.      Other intangible assets that have finite useful lives are amortized either on a
straight-line or on an accelerated basis over their respective estimated useful lives and evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. At December 31,
2008 and 2007, net intangible assets included in other assets of $0.9 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, consist of core deposit intangibles, trust intangibles, lease intangibles and other intangibles.        Other Assets        Included in other assets are investments in
Federal Home Loan Bank ( FHLB ) stock of $267.5 million and $424.6 million and Federal Reserve stock of $676.1 million and $645.1 million as of December 31. 2008 and 2007, respectively. We carry FHLB stock and Federal Reserve stock at
cost which approximates fair value and assess for impairment under SFAS 115. No impairment was recognized for 2008 and 2007.         
   91   

Table of Contents  

     Mortgage Servicing Rights        MSRs, are recognized when mortgage loans are sold in the secondary market and the right to service these loans for a fee is retained. MSRs are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in mortgage
servicing and other income. The Company continues to operate the mortgage servicing business and to report the changes in the fair value of MSRs in continuing operations. To evaluate and measure fair value, the underlying loans are stratified based
on certain risk characteristics, including loan type, note rate and investor servicing requirements. Fair value of the MSRs is determined using the present value of the estimated future cash flows of net servicing income. The Company uses
assumptions in the valuation model that market participants use when estimating future net servicing income, including prepayment speeds, discount rates, default rates, cost to service, escrow account earnings, contractual servicing fee income,
ancillary income and late fees. This model is highly sensitive to changes in certain assumptions. Different anticipated prepayment speeds, in particular, can result in substantial changes in the estimated fair value of MSRs. If actual prepayment
experience differs from the anticipated rates used in the Company s model, this difference could result in a material change in MSR value.      The MSR
balance was $150.5 million and $247.6 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. See Notes 12 and 13 for additional detail.        Representation and Warranty Reserve        The representation and warranty reserve is available to cover probable losses inherent with the
sale of mortgage loans in the secondary market. In the normal course of business, certain representations and warranties are made to investors at the time of sale, which permit the investor to return the loan to the seller or require the seller to
indemnify the investor for any losses incurred by the investor while the loan remains outstanding.      The evaluation process for determining the adequacy of
the representation and warranty reserve and the periodic provisioning for estimated losses is performed for each product type on a quarterly basis. Factors considered in the evaluation process include historical sales volumes, aggregate repurchase
and indemnification activity and actual losses incurred. Additions to the reserve are recorded as a reduction to the gain on sale of loans. Losses incurred on loans that the Company is required to either repurchase or make payments to the investor
under the indemnification provisions are charged against the reserve. The representation and warranty reserve is included in other liabilities. Quarterly changes to the representation and warranty reserve related to GreenPoint are reported as
discontinued operations for all periods presented.      As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the representation and warranty reserve was $140.2 million and
$93.4 million, respectively, of which $122.2 million and $84.5 million were part of discontinued operations, respectively.        Rewards Liability
       The Company offers products, primarily credit cards, that provide reward program members with various rewards such as airline tickets, free or
deeply discounted products or cash rebates, based on account activity. The Company establishes a rewards liability based upon points earned which are ultimately expected to be redeemed and the average cost per point redemption. As points are
redeemed, the rewards liability is relieved. The estimated cost of reward programs is primarily reflected as a reduction to interchange income. The cost of reward programs related to securitized loans is deducted from servicing and securitizations
income.      As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the rewards liability was $1.4 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively.        Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities        The Company
recognizes all of its derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet at fair value. These instruments are recorded in other assets or other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and in the operating section of
the Statement of Cash Flows as increases or decreases of other assets and other liabilities. The Company s policy is not to offset fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments and fair value amounts recognized for the right to
reclaim cash collateral or the obligation to return cash collateral arising from derivative instruments recognized at fair value executed with the same counterparty under master netting arrangements. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had
recorded $583.5 million for the right to retain cash collateral and $495.6 million for the obligation to return cash collateral under master netting arrangements. The accounting for changes in the fair value (i.e., gains and losses) of a derivative
instrument depends on whether it has been designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship and, further, on the type of hedging relationship. For those derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as hedging instruments under
SFAS 133, the Company must designate the hedging instrument, based upon the exposure being hedged, as a fair value hedge, a cash flow hedge or a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation.      For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges (i.e., hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset or a liability or an
identified portion thereof that is attributable to a particular risk), the gain or loss on the derivative instrument as well as the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is recognized in current earnings  
       
   92   

Table of Contents  

during the period of the change in fair values. For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges (i.e., hedging the exposure to
variability in expected future cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk), the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative instrument is reported as a component of other comprehensive income and reclassified into earnings in
the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. The remaining gain or loss on the derivative instrument in excess of the cumulative change in the present value of future cash flows of the hedged item, if any, is
recognized in current earnings during the period of change. For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, the gain or loss is reported in other comprehensive income as part of the
cumulative translation adjustment to the extent it is effective. For derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments, the gain or loss is recognized in current earnings during the period of change in the fair value.      The Company enters into derivative agreements with its customers in order to transfer, modify or reduce their interest rate or foreign exchange risks. As part of this
process, the Company considers the customers  suitability for the risk involved, and the business purpose for the transaction. These derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting and are considered trading derivatives with changes in fair
value recognized in current period earnings.      See Note 17 for additional detail.        Revenue Recognition        The Company recognizes earned finance charges, interest income and fee income on loans
according to the contractual provisions of the credit arrangements. For credit card loans, when the Company does not expect full payment of finance charges and fees, it does not accrue the estimated uncollectible portion as income (hereafter the
 suppression amount ). To calculate the suppression amount, the Company first estimates the uncollectible portion of credit card finance charge and fee receivables using an estimate of future non-principal losses. This formula is
consistent with that used to estimate the allowance related to expected principal losses on reported loans. The suppression amount is calculated by adding any current period change in the estimate of the uncollectible portion of finance charge and
fee receivables to the amount of finance charges and fees charged-off (net of recoveries) during the period. The Company subtracts the suppression amount from the total finance charges and fees billed during the period to arrive at total reported
revenue. The amount of finance charge and fees suppressed were $1.9 billion, $1.1 billion and $0.9 billion for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.      For other consumer loans and commercial loans, the Company places loans in a non-accrual status, which prevents the accrual of further interest income, when a loan reaches a pre-determined delinquency status,
generally 90 to 120 days past due.      Interchange income is a discount on the payment due from the card-issuing bank to the merchant bank through the
interchange network. Interchange rates are set by MasterCard International Inc. ( MasterCard ) and Visa U.S.A. Inc. ( Visa ) and are based on cardholder purchase volumes. The Company recognizes interchange income as earned.
     Annual membership fees and direct loan origination costs specific to credit card loans are deferred and amortized over one year on a straight-line basis.
Dealer fees and premiums are deferred and amortized over the average life of the related loans using the interest method for auto, mortgage and commercial loan originations. Direct loan origination costs consist of both internal and external costs
associated with the origination of a loan. Deferred fees (net of deferred costs) were $323.9 million, $389.7 million and $372.2 million as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.        Marketing        The Company expenses marketing costs as incurred.
Television advertising costs are expensed during the period in which the advertisements are aired. The amount of marketing expense was $1.1 billion, $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.        Fraud Losses        The Company
experiences fraud losses from the unauthorized use of credit cards, debit cards and customer bank accounts. Additional fraud losses may be incurred when loans are obtained through fraudulent means. Transactions suspected of being fraudulent are
charged to non-interest expense after an investigation period. Recoveries related to balances treated as fraud losses are also recognized in non-interest expense. See Note 15 for total fraud losses.        Income Taxes        The Company accounts for income taxes in
accordance with SFAS 109, recognizing the current and deferred tax consequences of all transactions that have been recognized in the financial statements using the provisions of the enacted tax laws. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
determined based on differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse.         
   93   

Table of Contents  

   Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized.
See Note 16 for additional detail.        Segments        The accounting policies of operating and reportable segments, as defined by the SFAS No. 131,  Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information , ( SFAS 131 ) are the same as those described elsewhere in
Note 1. Revenue for all segments is generally derived from external parties. The Local Banking segment receives funding credits related to deposits. Performance evaluation of and resource allocation to each reportable segment is based on a wide
range of indicators to include both historical and forecasted operating results. See Note 3 for further discussion of the Company s operating and reportable segments.       Note 2        Discontinued Operations        Shutdown of Mortgage Origination Operations of Wholesale Mortgage Banking Unit       In the third quarter of 2007, the
Company shut down the mortgage origination operations of its wholesale mortgage banking unit, GreenPoint. GreenPoint was acquired by the Company in December 2006 as part of the North Fork acquisition. The results of the mortgage origination
operations of GreenPoint have been accounted for as a discontinued operation and have been removed from the Company s results from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.      The results of GreenPoint s mortgage servicing business continue to be reported as part of the Company s continuing operations. The mortgage servicing function
was moved into the Local Banking segment in conjunction with the shutdown of the mortgage origination operation and the results of the Local Banking segment include the mortgage servicing results for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007.
The commercial and consumer mortgage loans held for investment portfolios were reported in the Local Banking segment and the Other segment, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007.      The Company retained $1.6 billion of certain GreenPoint loans and reclassified them from mortgage loans held for sale to held for investment during 2007. Continuing cash
flows from the held for investment loan portfolios are included in the Company s results of continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, and classified as operating cash flows in the Consolidated Statement of
Cash Flows. The Company will have no significant continuing involvement in the operations of the originate and sell business of GreenPoint.      The loss from
discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 includes an expense of $103.7 million, recorded in non-interest expense, for representations and warranties provided by the Company on loans previously sold to third parties by
GreenPoint s mortgage origination operation.      The following is summarized financial information for discontinued operations related to the closure of
the Company s wholesale mortgage banking unit:       
     
    The Company s wholesale mortgage banking unit had assets of approximately $35.0 million and $91.3 million as of December 31, 2008
and 2007, respectively, consisting of $19.3 million and $35.8 million, respectively, of mortgage loans held for sale and other related assets. The related liabilities consisted of obligations to fund these assets and for representations and
warranties on loans previously sold to third parties.       Note 3        Segments       The segments reflect the manner in which financial information is currently evaluated. The Company strategically manages and
reports the results of its business through two operating segment levels: Local Banking and National Lending. The Local Banking  
       
   94   

Table of Contents  

segment includes the Company s branch, treasury services and national deposit gathering activities; its commercial, branch based small business lending
and certain branch originated consumer lending; and its mortgage servicing and home loans origination activities.      During the first quarter of 2008, the
Company reorganized its National Lending sub-segments. Segment and sub-segment results have been restated for all periods presented. The National Lending segment consists of the following sub-segments:       

U.S. Card sub-segment which consists of the Company s domestic credit card business, including small business credit cards, and the installment loan
businesses.          

Other National Lending sub-segment which includes the Company s auto finance and international lending sub-segments.         The results of the GreenPoint mortgage origination operations are being reported as discontinued operations for 2008, 2007, and 2006, and are not included in the segment
results of the Company. The results of GreenPoint s mortgage servicing business and small ticket commercial real estate loans held for investment portfolio are reported as part of the Company s continuing operations and included in the
Local Banking segment. The results of GreenPoint s consumer mortgage held for investment portfolio are reported as part of the Company s continuing operations and included in the Other segment.      The Local Banking and National Lending segments are considered reportable segments based on quantitative thresholds applied to the managed loan portfolio for reportable
segments provided by SFAS 131, and are disclosed separately. The Other segment includes the Company s liquidity portfolio, emerging businesses not included in the reportable segments, and various non-lending activities. The Other segment
also includes the results of GreenPoint s consumer mortgage held for investment portfolio the GreenPoint home equity line of credit portfolio, the net impact of transfer pricing, certain unallocated expenses, gains/losses related to the
securitization of assets, and restructuring charges related to the Company s cost initiative announced in the second quarter of 2007.      The Company
maintains its books and records on a legal entity basis for the preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP. The following tables present information prepared from the Company s internal management information system, which is
maintained on a line of business level through allocations from the consolidated financial results.         
   95   

Table of Contents  

   The following tables present certain information regarding our continuing operations by segment:       

96   

Table of Contents  

Income statement adjustments for the year ended December 31, 2007 reclassify the net of finance charges of $6,334.8 million, past due fees of
$1,004.1 million, other interest income of $(167.3) million and interest expense of $2,681.7 million; and net charge-offs of $2,201.5 million to non-interest income from net interest income and provision for loan losses, respectively.      Income statement adjustments for the year ended December 31, 2006 reclassify the net of finance charges of $5,485.0 million, past due fees of $938.6
million, other interest income of $(239.7) million and interest expense of $2,342.7 million; and net charge-offs of $1,747.5 million to non-interest income from net interest income and provision for loan losses, respectively.       
     Significant
Segment Adjustments That Affect Comparability       During 2008, the Company recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $810.9 million in the Auto Finance
sub-segment.      During 2008, the Company repurchased approximately $1.0 billion of certain senior unsecured debt, recognizing a gain of $52.0 million in
non-interest income and reported in the Other segment. The Company initiated the repurchases to take advantage of the current market environment and replaced the repurchased debt with lower-rate unsecured funding.      During 2007, the Company completed the sale of its interest in a relationship agreement to develop and market consumer credit products in Spain and recorded a net gain
related to this sale of $31.3 million consisting of a $41.6 million increase in non-interest income partially offset by a $10.3 million increase in non-interest expense. This gain was recorded in the International sub-segment.      During 2007, the Company sold its remaining interest in DealerTrack, a leading provider of on-demand software and data solutions for the automotive retail industry. The
sale resulted in a $46.2 million gain, which was recorded in non-interest income and reported in the Auto Finance sub-segment.      During 2007, the Company
recorded $138.2 million of restructuring charges as part of its broad-based initiative to reduce expenses and improve the Company s competitive cost position. The 2007 restructuring charges were recorded in non-interest expense and held in the
Other Segment.      During 2006, the Company sold a combination of previously purchased charged-off loan portfolios and the Company originated charged-off
loans resulting in the recognition of $83.8 million of non-interest income recognized in the Other Segment.      During 2006, the Company sold a number of
Treasury and Agency securities realizing a loss of $34.9 million which was reported in non-interest expense and held in the Other Segment.       Visa
Litigation and IPO       During 2007, the Company recognized a pre-tax charge of $79.8 million for liabilities in connection with the Visa antitrust lawsuit
settlement with American Express. Additionally, the Company recorded a legal reserve of $59.1 million for estimated possible damages in connection with other pending Visa litigation, reflecting our share of such potential damages as a Visa member.
The 2007 litigation charges were recorded in non-interest expense and held in the Other Segment. During the first quarter of 2008, Visa completed an initial public offering ( IPO ) of its stock. With IPO proceeds Visa established an escrow
account for the benefit of member banks to fund certain litigation settlements and claims. As a result, in the first quarter of 2008, the Company reversed its Visa-related indemnification liabilities of $90.9 million recorded in other liabilities
with a corresponding reduction of other non-interest expense. In addition, the Company recognized a gain of $109.0 million in non-interest income for the redemption of 2.5 million shares related to the Visa IPO. Both items were included in the
Other segment       MasterCard Stock Sale       During 2008, the
Company recognized a gain of $44.9 million in non-interest income from the conversion and sale of 154,991 shares of MasterCard, Inc. class B common stock, which was recorded in the Other Segment.         
   97   

Table of Contents  

   In 2007, shareholders approved an amendment to the MasterCard Certificate of Incorporation that provides for an
accelerated conversion of class B common stock into class A common stock. The MasterCard Board of Directors approved a conversion window running from August 4 to October 5, 2007, during which time owners of class B shares could have
voluntarily elected to convert and sell a certain number of their shares. During the conversion period, Capital One elected to convert and sell 300,482 shares of MasterCard class B common stock. The Company recognized gains of $43.4 million on these
transactions in non-interest income in the Other segment.       MasterCard IPO       During 2006, MasterCard, Inc. completed an initial public offering of its stock. In connection with this transaction, the Company received 2,305,140 Class B shares of which 1,360,032 Class B shares were immediately
redeemed by MasterCard, Inc. The Company recognized a $20.5 million gain from the share redemption, which was reported in non-interest expense and held in the Other segment.       The Gulf Coast Hurricanes  Impacts       During 2006, the Company determined that $25.7 million of allowance for loan
losses previously established by Hibernia to cover expected losses in the portion of the loan portfolio impacted by the Gulf Coast Hurricanes was no longer needed. This determination was driven by improvements in credit performance of the impacted
portfolios since the time those reserves were established. As a result, the Local Banking segment includes the reversal of this allowance.       Note 4  
      Securities Available for Sale       Securities
available-for-sale, aggregated by investment category, and based on expected maturities as of December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 were as follows:       
       
   98   

Table of Contents  

(1)      
    Certain information as of December 31, 2007, and 2006 has been revised in these tables from the versions that
appeared in prior 10-Ks to correct certain expected maturity information and to reclassify securities among investment categories and make certain other immaterial revisions. Information as of December 31, 2006, has been revised to reflect that
expected maturities are based on weighted average remaining life instead of contractual life, which resulted in certain investments shifting from the category of securities with expected maturities over 10 years to the category of securities with
expected maturities of 1-5 years. Further, information for the periods ended December 31, 2006, and December 31, 2007, has been revised to reclassify securities among investment categories so that all tables in this Note reflect consistent
classification of securities among investment categories.      

(2)      
    Other GSE and FDIC Debt Guarantee Program ( DGP ) include investments in senior unsecured debt issued under
the DGP of $542.5 million in market value as of December 31, 2008.         The increase in the securities available for sale portfolio was
due to the Company s decision to increase its available liquidity in response to the dislocation in the capital markets. The composition of the available-for-sale investment portfolio are held in the investment portfolio and continue to be
heavily concentrated in high credit quality assets like government sponsored enterprise ( GSE ) mortgage-backed securities and AAA rated asset-backed securities. In addition to securities held in the investment portfolio, the Company
reports certain equity investments related to Community Reinvestment Act ( CRA ) investments in the available for sale investment portfolio.         
   99   

Table of Contents  

   At December 31, 2008 the portfolio was 95% rated AAA and had virtually no sub-prime or alt-A exposure. The
investment portfolio experienced a substantial increase in the unrealized loss position over the year ended December 31, 2008, which was driven primarily by our prime non-agency mortgage-backed securities holdings.      The Company monitors securities in its available for sale investment portfolio for other-than-temporary impairment based on a number of criteria, including the size of
the unrealized loss position, the duration for which that security has been in a loss position, credit rating, the nature of the investments, current market conditions, and the Company s intent and ability to hold the securities until
anticipated recovery, which may be maturity. The Company continually monitors the ratings of our security holdings and conducts regular reviews of the Company s credit sensitive assets to monitor collateral performance by tracking collateral
trends and looking for any potential collateral degradation.      Based on the evaluation, the Company recognized other-than-temporary impairment charges of
$10.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. No other-than-temporary impairment was recognized for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006.      Unrealized gains and losses on securities included gross unrealized gains of $373.3 million, $118.8 million and $62.2 million, and gross unrealized losses of $1.5 billion, $96.5 million, and $158.8 million, as of December 31, 2008,
2007, and 2006, respectively.      The following table shows the Company s investments  gross unrealized losses and fair value of the investments in
an unrealized loss position, aggregated by investment category, at December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively.       
       
   100   

Table of Contents  

(1)      
    Certain information at December 31, 2007, and 2006 has been revised in these tables from the versions that appeared
in prior 10-Ks to correct the classification of securities in an unrealized loss position and to reclassify securities among investment categories and make certain other immaterial revisions. Fair values and gross losses for investments in an
unrealized loss position have been classified based on the period of time the investments have been in an unrealized loss position rather than based on contractual maturity. This revision resulted in fewer investments in an unrealized loss position
greater than 12 months and more investments in an unrealized loss position less than 12 months. The information at December 31, 2006 has been revised to reflect the fair value of only those investments with an unrealized loss. Further,
information for the periods ended December 31, 2006, and December 31, 2007, has been revised to reclassify securities among investment categories so that all tables in this Note reflect consistent classification of securities among
investment categories.            
   101   

Table of Contents  

   The Company has determined that these investments have only temporary impairment based on the analysis discussed above.
      U.S. Treasury and Other U.S. Government Agency Obligations . The unrealized losses on the Company s investments in U.S. Treasury obligations
and direct obligations of U.S. government agencies were caused by interest rate increases. The contractual terms of these investments do not permit the issuer to settle the securities at a price less than the amortized cost of the investment.
Because the Company has the ability and intent to hold these investments until a recovery of fair value, which may be maturity, the Company did not consider these investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2008, 2007, and
2006.       Collateralized Mortgage Obligations . The Company s portfolio includes investments in GSE mortgage-backed investments and prime
non-agency mortgage-backed investments. The unrealized losses on the Company s investment in collateralized mortgage obligations were primarily caused by higher credit spreads and interest rates. As of December 31, 2008, the majority of
the unrealized losses in this category is due to prime non-agency collateral mortgage obligations, of which 61% are rated AAA. Approximately $49.8 million of the $654.1 million of collateralized mortgage obligations unrealized losses is related to
GSE collateralized mortgage obligations as of December 31, 2008.      Since the Company believes there is sufficient subordination to protect the cash
flows of these securities, and currently has the ability and intent to hold these investments until a recovery of fair value, which may be maturity, the Company did not consider its investments in collateral mortgage obligations to be
other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.       Mortgage-Backed Securities . The Company s portfolio includes
investments in GSE mortgage-backed investments and prime non-agency mortgage-backed investments. As of December 31, 2008, the unrealized losses of the Company s investment in GSE mortgage-backed securities were primarily caused by higher
credit spreads and interest rates. Approximately $36.8 million of the $467.7 million of mortgage-backed securities unrealized losses is related to GSE mortgage-backed securities as of December 31, 2008. Since the contractual cash flows of these
investments are guaranteed by a GSE of the U.S. government, it is expected that the securities would not be settled at a price less than the amortized cost of the Company s investment.      As of December 31, 2008, the majority of unrealized losses is due to prime non-agency investments, of which 67% are rated AAA. Since the Company believes there is
sufficient subordination to protect cash flows and currently has the ability and intent to hold these investments until a recovery of fair value, which may be maturity, the Company did not consider these investments to be other-than-temporarily
impaired at December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006.       Asset-Backed Securities . This category is comprised of investments backed by credit card, auto
and student consumer loans, commercial mortgage backed loans, as well as minor investments backed by home equity lines of credit. As of December 31, 2008, the portfolio is 96% rated AAA and is comprised of 41% credit card, 24% auto, 23% commercial
mortgage backed loans, 12% student consumer loans, and 0.3% home equity lines of credit. The unrealized losses on the Company s investments in asset-backed securities were primarily caused by higher credit spreads and interest rates.
The Company recognized $4.8 million in other-than-temporary impairment charges in the fourth quarter of 2008 related to two home equity line of credit asset-backed securities which experienced significant decreases in market value due to increased
default rates and loss severities of the underlying collateral. Other than the two home equity line of credit asset-backed securities, referenced above, which were impaired as of December 31, 2008, based on its view of the sufficiency of its
subordination to protect cash flows and its ability and intent to hold these investments until a recovery of fair value, which may be maturity, the Company did not consider its asset backed investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired at
December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006.         
   102   

Table of Contents  

    Other . This category consists primarily of municipal securities and limited investments in equity securities,
primarily related to CRA activities. The unrealized losses on the Company s investments in other items were primarily caused by higher risk premiums and/or interest rates. The Company recognized $6.1 million in other-than-temporary impairment
charges on an equity investment related to CRA investments in the year ended December 31, 2008 due to declining stock values and market concerns on performance. For the remaining investments, since the Company believes it has the ability and
intent to hold these investments until recovery of fair value, which may be maturity, the Company did not consider these investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively.       
       
   103   

Table of Contents  

(1)      
    Certain information disclosed for the years ended December 31, 2007, and 2006 has been revised in these tables from
the versions that appeared in prior 10-Ks to reflect a change in methodology to certain weighted average yield information and to reclassify securities among investment categories and to make certain other immaterial changes. Weighted Average Yields
have been recalculated using different prepayment assumptions, resulting in a more precise weighted average remaining life for our investments. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company used median prepayment speed projections obtained
from a number of dealers which resulted in longer weighted average remaining life. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company used expected yield to maturity instead of average book yield.         Weighted average yields were determined based on amortized cost and are distributed based on expected maturities. Actual maturities could differ because issuers and/or
the underlying borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations.      Gross realized gains on sales and calls of securities were $14.6 million, $71.2
million, and $36.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Gross realized losses on sales and calls of securities were $0.9 million, $1.2 million, and $66.0 million for the years ended December 31,
2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Tax expenses (benefits) on net realized gains (losses) were $5.0 million, $25.0 million, and $(10.6) million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.      Securities available for sale included pledged securities of $13.7 billion, $9.3 billion, and $9.5 billion at December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively.
        
   104   

Table of Contents  

    Note 5        Loans Held
for Investment, Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Unfunded Lending Commitments        Loans Held for Investment       The composition of the loans held for investment portfolio was as follows:       
    Loans totaling approximately $998.6 million and $799.9 million, representing amounts which were greater than 90
days past due, were included in the Company s reported loan portfolio as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These delinquencies include nonaccrual consumer auto loans of $164.6 million in 2008 and $159.8 million in 2007.
     Loans that were considered individually impaired in accordance with SFAS No. 114 at December 31, 2008 and 2007 were $461.2 million and $122.8
million, respectively. The Company had a corresponding specific allowance for loan and lease losses of $64.3 million and $8.4 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, relating to impaired loans of $272.2 million and $48.8 million at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The average balance of impaired loans was $271.9 million in 2008 and $74.8 million in 2007. Interest income recognized during 2008 and 2007 related to impaired loans was not material.       Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses       The following is a summary of
changes in the allowance for loan and lease losses:       
       
   105   

Table of Contents  

Unfunded Lending Commitments       We manage the potential risk in credit commitments by limiting the total amount of arrangements, both by individual customer and in total, by monitoring the size and maturity structure of these portfolios and by
applying the same credit standards for all of our credit activities.      As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company had $171.1 billion and $198.0
billion, respectively, of unused credit card lines. While this amount represented the total unused available credit card lines, the Company has not experienced, and does not anticipate, that all of its customers will exercise their entire available
line at any given point in time. The Company generally has the right to increase, reduce, cancel, alter or amend the terms of these available lines of credit at any time.      The Company enters into commitments to extend credit that are legally binding conditional agreements having fixed expirations or termination dates and specified interest rates and purposes. These commitments generally
require customers to maintain certain credit standards. Collateral requirements and loan-to-value ratios are the same as those for funded transactions and are established based on management s credit assessment of the customer. Commitments may
expire without being drawn upon. Therefore, the total commitment amount does not necessarily represent future requirements. The Company maintains a reserve for unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit to absorb estimated probable losses
related to these unfunded credit facilities in other liabilities. The outstanding unfunded commitments to extend credit other than credit card lines were approximately $10.0 billion and $10.4 billion as of December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.       Note 6        Premises,
Equipment   Lease Commitments        Premises and Equipment       Premises and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. The Company capitalizes direct costs (including external costs for purchased software, contractors, consultants and internal
staff costs) for internally developed software projects that have been identified as being in the application development stage. Depreciation and amortization expenses are computed generally by the straight-line method over the estimated useful
lives of the assets. Useful lives for premises and equipment are as follows:       

Buildings and improvement   
      
  5-39 years   
 
    Furniture and equipment   
      
  3-10 years   
 
    Computer software   
      
  3-5 years   
    Premises and equipment were as follows:       
    Depreciation and amortization expense from continuing operations was $331.2 million, $308.8 million, and $269.6
million, for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.         
   106   

Table of Contents  

   In 2007, the Company discontinued operations for the majority of the GreenPoint Mortgage business. As a result, the loss
on discontinued operations for 2007 includes the write-off of premises and equipment of $34.6 million (includes $63.3 million of write-off in premises and equipment net of $28.7 million of accumulated depreciation and amortization write-off).
      Lease Commitments       Certain premises and equipment are
leased under agreements that expire at various dates through 2035, without taking into consideration available renewal options. Many of these leases provide for payment by the lessee of property taxes, insurance premiums, cost of maintenance and
other costs. In some cases, rentals are subject to increases in relation to a cost of living index. Total rent expense from continuing operations amounted to $163.8 million, $136.1 million and $58.7 million for the years ended December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.      Future minimum rental commitments as of December 31, 2008, for all non-cancelable operating leases with initial or
remaining terms of one year or more are as follows:       
    Minimum sublease rental income of $23.5 million, due in future years under noncancelable leases, has not been
included in the table above as a reduction to minimum lease payments.       Note 7        Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets       In 2006, the Company acquired North Fork Bancorporation, Inc., ( North
Fork ) a commercial and retail bank in New York, which created $9.7 billion of goodwill. The goodwill associated with the acquisition of North Fork was held in the Other category at the end of 2006. The North Fork acquisition goodwill was
allocated across the reportable segments during 2007. Goodwill associated with the 2005 acquisition of Hibernia Corporation of $3.2 billion was allocated across the reportable segments during 2006. Goodwill was reallocated as part of our segment
reorganization in the first quarter of 2008.      Goodwill impairment is tested at the reporting unit level, which is an operating segment or one level below
on an annual basis in accordance with SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . The Company s reporting units are Local Banking, U.S. Card, Auto Finance, and International. The goodwill impairment analysis is a two-step
test. The first step, used to identify potential impairment, involves comparing each reporting unit s fair value to its carrying value including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, applicable goodwill is
considered not to be impaired. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, there is an indication of impairment and the second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment.      For the 2008 annual impairment test, the fair value of reporting units was calculated using a discounted cash flow analysis, a form of the income approach, using each reporting unit s internal five year forecast
and a terminal growth rate reflecting the nominal growth rate of the economy as a whole. Cash flows were adjusted as necessary in order to maintain each reporting unit s equity capital requirements. Our discounted cash flow analysis required
management to make judgments about future loan and deposit growth, revenue growth, credit losses, and capital rates. The cash flows were discounted to present value using reporting unit specific discount rates that are largely based on the
Company s external cost of equity with adjustments for risk inherent in each reporting unit. Discount rates used for the reporting units ranged from 10.1% to 14.0%. The key inputs into the discounted cash flow analysis were corroborated with
market data, where available, indicating that assumptions used were within a reasonable range of observable market data.      Based on the comparison of fair
value to carrying amount, as calculated using the methodology summarized above, fair value exceeded carrying amount in the U.S. Card, International, and Local Banking reporting units as of the Company s annual testing date; therefore, the
goodwill of those reporting units was considered not impaired, and the second step of impairment testing was unnecessary. However, all others factors held constant, a 7% decline in the fair value of the Local Banking reporting unit, a 19% decline in
the fair value the U.S. Card reporting unit and a 5% decline in the fair value of the International reporting unit would have caused the carrying amount for those reporting units to be in excess of fair value which would require the second step to
be performed. The Auto Finance reporting unit, with a $1.4 billion carrying amount of goodwill as of the testing date, failed the first step as fair value was less than  
       
   107   

Table of Contents  

carrying amount by $909.7 million, requiring it to move to the second step of the goodwill impairment test. Based on the results of the second step, a loss
of $810.9 million ($804.4 million after tax) was recognized for the year-ended December 31, 2008. The impairment was primarily a result of a reduced estimate of the fair value of the Auto Finance reporting unit due to fourth quarter business
decisions to scale back that business.      During the fourth quarter of 2008 and continuing into 2009, our stock price, along with the stock prices of others
in the financial services industry, declined significantly, resulting in a decline in our market capitalization subsequent to our annual goodwill impairment testing date. While this decline did not result in further goodwill impairment in 2008, the
Company will continue to regularly monitor its market capitalization, overall economic conditions and other events or circumstances that might result in an impairment of goodwill in the future.      In the third quarter of 2007, the Company shutdown mortgage origination operations at its wholesale mortgage banking unit, GreenPoint. As a result of the closure of the
mortgage originations business, a goodwill impairment loss of $650.0 million ($646.0 million after tax) was recognized as part of discontinued operations.      For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, no additional impairment of goodwill was required to be recognized.      The following table
provides a summary of goodwill.       
     
    In connection with the acquisitions of Hibernia and North Fork, the Company recorded intangible assets that
consisted of core deposit intangibles, trust intangibles, lease intangibles, and other intangibles, which are subject to amortization. The core deposit and trust intangibles reflect the estimated value of deposit and trust relationships. The lease
intangibles reflect the difference between the contractual obligation under current lease contracts and the fair market value of the lease contracts at the acquisition date. The other intangible items relate to customer lists, brokerage
relationships and insurance contracts. The following table summarizes the Company s purchase accounting intangible assets subject to amortization.         
   108   

Table of Contents  

Intangibles are amortized on an accelerated basis over their respective estimated useful lives. Intangible assets
are recorded in Other assets on the balance sheet. Amortization expense related to purchase accounting intangibles totaled $200.6 million and $221.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Amortization expense for
intangibles is recorded to non-interest expense. The weighted average amortization period for all purchase accounting intangibles is 9.4 years.      The
following table summarizes the Company s estimated future amortization of intangibles:       
     Note 8        Deposits and Borrowings       Borrowings as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 were as follows:       

(1)  
  Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation.           
   109   

Table of Contents  

    Deposits        Interest-Bearing Deposits       As of December 31, 2008, the Company had $97.3 billion in interest-bearing deposits of which $11.3 billion
represents large denomination certificates of $100 thousand or more. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had $71.7 billion in interest-bearing deposits of which $10.0 billion represents large denomination certificates of $100 thousand or more.
      Borrowings        Senior and Subordinated Notes
      The Senior and Subordinated Global Bank Note Program gives COBNA the ability to issue securities to both U.S. and non-U.S. lenders and to raise funds
in U.S. and foreign currencies. The Senior and Subordinated Global Bank Note Program had $1.8 billion and $3.2 billion outstanding at December 31, 2008 and 2007. Prior to the establishment of the Senior and Subordinated Global Bank Note
Program, COBNA issued senior unsecured debt through its $8.0 billion Senior Domestic Bank Note Program, of which zero and $168.0 million was outstanding at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. COBNA did not renew the Senior Domestic Bank
Note Program or future issuances following the establishment of the Senior and Subordinated Global Bank Note Program.      Prior to 2008, the Company issued
senior and subordinated notes that as of December 31, 2008 had a par amount outstanding of $7.7 billion. The outstanding balance of senior and subordinated bank notes in the table above include $605 million and $104 million related to fair
value accounting hedges at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. See Note 17 for a further discussion of fair value interest rate hedges. The weighted average stated rate included in the table above is before the impact of these interest
rate derivatives.      None of the senior and subordinated notes outstanding at December 31, 2008 are callable. During 2008, securities totaling $1.8
billion were called or matured.      During 2008, the Company repurchased approximately $1.1 billion of certain senior unsecured notes, recognizing a gain of
approximately $53.3 million in non-interest income.      In September 2007, the Company issued $1.5 billion of 6.75% senior notes due September 15, 2017.
     In December 2006, in connection with the North Fork acquisition, the Company assumed $150.0 million of 9.25% subordinated notes due October 1, 2010,
$350.0 million of 3.20% senior notes due June 6, 2008, $350.0 million of 5.875% fixed rate subordinated notes due August 15, 2012 and $150.0 million of 5.00% fixed rate subordinated loans due August 15, 2012. The senior notes due
June 6, 2008 were repaid at maturity.      In September 2006, the Company issued $1.1 billion of floating rate senior notes due September 10, 2009
and $1.1 billion of 5.7% senior notes due September 15, 2011.      In August 2006, the Company issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 6.15%
subordinated notes due September 1, 2016.       Corporation Shelf Registration Statement       As of December 31, 2008, the Corporation had an effective shelf registration statement under which the Corporation from time to time may offer and sell an
indeterminate aggregate amount of senior or subordinated debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares representing preferred stock, common stock, warrants, trust preferred securities, junior subordinated debt securities, guarantees of trust
preferred securities and certain back-up obligations, purchase contracts and units. There is no limit under this shelf registration statement to the amount or number of such securities that the Corporation may offer and sell. Under SEC rules, the
Automatic Shelf Registration Statement expires three years after filing. Accordingly, the Corporation must file a new Automatic Shelf Registration Statement at least once every three years. The Automatic Shelf Registration Statement must be updated
by May 2009 to remain effective.       Other Borrowings        Secured Borrowings       The Company issued securitizations in which it transfers pools of consumer loans that are accounted for as secured
borrowings at December 31, 2008. The agreements were entered into between 2005 and 2007, relating to the transfers of pools of consumer loans totaling $25.1 billion. Principal payments on the borrowings are based on principal collections, net
of losses, on the transferred consumer loans. The secured borrowings accrue interest at fixed and variable rates and mature between April 2009 and May 2011, or earlier depending upon the repayment of the underlying consumer loans. At
December 31, 2008 and 2007, $7.5 billion and $13.1 billion, respectively, of the secured borrowings were outstanding. See Note 18, for further discussion of secured borrowings.         
   110   

Table of Contents  

    Junior Subordinated Debentures       At both December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company had junior subordinated debentures outstanding with a par amount of $1.6 billion.      The Company had previously established special purpose trusts for the purpose of issuing trust preferred securities. The proceeds from such issuances, together with the proceeds of the related issuances of common
securities of the trusts, were invested by the trusts in junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures issued by the Company. Prior to FIN 46(R), these trusts were consolidated subsidiaries of the Company. As a result of the adoption of FIN
46(R), the Company deconsolidated all such special purpose trusts, as the Company is not considered to be the primary beneficiary.      During 2008, no
securities were called or matured and there were no new issuances.      During 2007, securities totaling $450.0 million were called or matured, including $150
million of junior subordinated debentures issued prior to 2006. In February 2007, the Company issued $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of junior subordinated debentures that are scheduled to mature on February 17, 2037 and are callable
beginning February 17, 2032. The debentures bear interest at a rate of 6.745% until February 17, 2032, at which time they become floating rate through to the scheduled maturity date.      In December 2006, in connection with the North Fork acquisition, the Company assumed $100.0 million of 8.70% junior subordinated debentures due December 15, 2026
and $200.0 million of 9.10% junior subordinated debentures due June 1, 2027. These junior subordinated debentures were called during 2007, as noted above, resulting in a $17.4 million gain. In addition, the Company assumed $100.0 million of
8.0% junior subordinated debentures due December 15, 2027 and $45.0 million of 8.17% junior subordinated debentures due May 1, 2028. These junior subordinated debentures remain outstanding at December 31, 2008 and are callable
beginning March 23, 2009.      In August 2006, the Company issued $650.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7.686% junior subordinated debentures that
are scheduled to mature on August 15, 2036.      In June 2006, the Company issued $345.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7.5% junior subordinated
debentures that are scheduled to mature on June 15, 2066 and are callable beginning June 15, 2011.       FHLB Advances       The Company utilizes FHLB advances which are secured by the Company s investment in FHLB stock and by a blanket floating lien on portions of the Company s
residential mortgage loan portfolio. FHLB advances outstanding were $4.9 billion and $6.8 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively and include fixed and variable rate advances. FHLB stock totaled $267.5 million and $424.6 million at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively and is included in Other assets.       Other Short-Term Borrowings        Revolving Credit Facility       In June 2004, the Company terminated its
Domestic Revolving and Multicurrency Credit Facilities and replaced them with a new revolving credit facility ( Credit Facility ) providing for an aggregate of $750.0 million in unsecured borrowings from various lending institutions to be
used for general corporate purposes. On April 30, 2007, the Credit Facility was terminated.       Collateralized Revolving Credit Facilities
      In March 2002, the Company entered into a revolving warehouse credit facility collateralized by a security interest in certain auto loan assets (the
 Capital One Auto Loan Facility I ). As of December 31, 2008, the Capital One Auto Loan Facility I had the capacity to issue up to $1.05 billion in secured notes. The Capital One Auto Loan Facility I has multiple participants each
with separate renewal dates. The facility does not have a final maturity date. Instead, each participant may elect to renew the commitment for another set period of time. Interest on the facility is based on commercial paper rates. The outstanding
borrowings of the Capital One Auto Loan Facility I was paid down in full in January 2008.      In March 2005, the Company entered into a second revolving
warehouse credit facility collateralized by a security interest in certain auto loan assets (the  Capital One Auto Loan Facility II ). As of December 31, 2008, the Capital One Auto Loan Facility II had the capacity to issue up to $0.5
billion in secured notes. The facility does not have a final maturity date. Instead, the participant may elect to renew the commitment for another set period of time. Interest on the facility is based on commercial paper rates. The outstanding
borrowings of the Capital One Auto Loan Facility II was paid down in full in January 2008.         
   111   

Table of Contents  

   Interest-bearing time deposits, senior and subordinated notes and other borrowings as of December 31, 2008, mature
as follows:       

(1)  
  Includes only those interest bearing deposits which have a contractual maturity date.         Note 9        Stock Plans       The Company has two active stock-based compensation plans, one employee plan and one non-employee director plan. Under the plans, the Company reserves common shares for issuance in various forms including incentive stock options,
nonstatutory stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, and performance share units.      The following table
provides the number of reserved common shares and the number of common shares available for future issuance for the Company s active stock-based compensation plan as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. No shares are currently reserved in
the 1999 Non-Employee Directors Stock Incentive Plan and the ability to issue grants from that plan will terminate on April 28, 2009. The ability to issue grants from other plans was terminated in 2004.       
    Generally the exercise price of stock options, or value of
restricted stock awards, will equal the fair market value of the Company s stock on the date of grant. The maximum contractual term for options is ten years, and option vesting is determined at the time of grant. The vesting for most options is
33   1/3    percent per year beginning with the first anniversary of the grant date. For restricted stock, the vesting is usually 25 percent on the first
and second anniversaries of the grant date and 50 percent on the third anniversary date or three years from the date of grant.      The Company also issues
cash equity units which are recorded as liabilities as expense is recognized. Cash equity units are not issued out of the Company s stock-based compensation plans because they are settled with a cash payment for each unit vested equal to the
fair market value of the Company s stock on the vesting date. Cash equity units vest 25 percent on the first and second anniversaries of the grant date and 50 percent on the third anniversary date or three years from the date of grant.
     The Company recognizes compensation expense on a straight line basis over the entire award s vesting period for any awards with graded vesting. Total
compensation expense recognized for share based compensation during the years 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $112.2 million, $230.0 million and $211.1 million, respectively. The total income tax benefit recognized in the consolidated statement of income
for share based compensation arrangements during the years 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $39.3 million, $80.5 million and $73.9 million, respectively.      Stock
option expense is based on per option fair values, estimated at the grant date using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The fair value of options granted during 2008, 2007 and 2006 was estimated using the weighted average assumptions summarized
below:       

112   

Table of Contents  

   A summary of option activity under the plans as of December 31, 2008, and changes during the year then ended is
presented below:       
    At December 31, 2008, the number, weighted average exercise price, aggregate intrinsic value and weighted
average remaining contractual terms of options vested and expected to vest approximate amounts for options outstanding. The weighted-average fair value of options granted during the years 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $9.94, $16.31 and $26.94,
respectively. Cash proceeds from the exercise of stock options were $71.4 million, $224.1 million and $182.3 million for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Tax benefits realized from the exercise of stock options were $9.4 million for 2008. The
total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $27.0 million, $174.4 million, and $143.1 million, respectively.      A
summary of 2008 activity for restricted stock awards and units is presented below:       
    The weighted-average grant date fair value of restricted stock granted for the years 2008, 2007 and 2006 was
$49.33, $64.63 and $82.54, respectively. The total fair value of restricted stock vesting during the years 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $33.8 million, $79.6 million and $100.9 million, respectively. At December 31, 2008 there was unrecognized
compensation cost for unvested restricted awards of $83.4 million. That cost is expected to be recognized over the next 3 years.      Cash equity units vesting
during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 resulted in cash payments to associates of $30.1 million in both years. These cash payments reflect the number of units vesting priced at the Company s stock price as of the vest date. At
December 31, 2008 there was unrecognized compensation cost for unvested cash equity units of $25.4 million, based on the average quarterly stock price. That cost is expected to be recognized over the next 3 years.       2009 CEO Grant       In January 2009, the Company s Board of
Directors approved a compensation package for the Company s CEO. This package included an opportunity to receive from 0% to 200% of the target number of 95,239 shares of the Company s common stock based on the Company s performance
over the three-year period from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011. The package also included a grant of 970,403 nonstatutory stock options at an exercise price of $18.28 per share. The options will become fully exercisable on
January 29, 2012. Both awards are subject to restrictions regarding sale or transfer of the shares received until the earlier of the date on which the U.S. Treasury no longer holds any shares of the preferred stock that the Company issued under
the U.S. Treasury s Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program ( CPP ) or one year after retirement from the Company. Compensation expense of $6.0 million related to these awards will be recognized in 2009 under SFAS 123R.
      2008 CEO Grant       In December 2007, the Company s
Board of Directors approved a compensation package for the Company s CEO. This package included 1,661,780 stock options which will vest upon the third anniversary date of the grant or upon departure from employment with Capital One for reasons
other than retirement. Upon retirement, these options will continue to vest in accordance with the original vesting schedule. Compensation expense of $17.0 million for these options was recorded in 2007 in accordance with the retirement eligibility
provisions of SFAS 123R.         
   113   

Table of Contents  

    2007 CEO Grant       In
December 2006, the Company s Board of Directors approved a compensation package for the Company s CEO. This package included 595,000 stock options which will vest upon the fifth anniversary date of the grant or upon departure from
employment with Capital One for reasons other than retirement. Upon retirement, these options will continue to vest in accordance with the original vesting schedule. Compensation expense of $18.0 million for these options was recorded in 2006 in
accordance with the retirement eligibility provisions of SFAS 123R.       Accelerated Vesting Option Grants         Entrepreneur Grant IV        In April 1999, the Company s Board
of Directors approved a stock option grant to senior management ( Entrepreneur Grant IV ). This grant was originally composed of 7,636,107 options to certain key managers (including 1,884,435 options to the Company s CEO and former
COO) with an exercise price equal to the fair market value on the date of grant. The CEO and former COO gave up their salaries for the year 2001 and their annual cash incentives, annual option grants and Senior Executive Retirement Plan
contributions for the years 2000 and 2001 in exchange for their Entrepreneur Grant IV options. Other members of senior management had the opportunity to give up all potential annual stock option grants for 1999 and 2000 in exchange for this one-time
grant. All performance-based option accelerated vesting provisions lapsed during 2004; as such the options will now vest in accordance with the ultimate vesting provisions. Fifty-percent of the stock options held by middle management vested on
April 29, 2005, and the remainder vested on April 29, 2008. In 2003, the former COO s options associated with Entrepreneur Grant IV were forfeited in accordance with the terms of the employment agreement between the former COO and the
Company. Options under this grant qualify as fixed as defined by APB 25, accordingly no compensation expense was recognized.        Associate Stock
Purchase Plan        The Company maintains an Associate Stock Purchase Plan (the  Purchase Plan ). The Purchase Plan is a compensatory plan
under SFAS 123R; accordingly the Company recognized $4.3 million, $5.2 million and $4.8 million in compensation expense for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.      Under the Purchase Plan, associates of the Company are eligible to purchase common stock through monthly salary deductions of a maximum of 15% and a minimum of 1% of
monthly base pay. To date, the amounts deducted are applied to the purchase of unissued common or treasury stock of the Company at 85% of the current market price. Shares may also be acquired on the market. An aggregate of 8.0 million common
shares has been authorized for issuance under the 2002 Associate Stock Purchase Plan, of which 4.6 million shares were available for issuance as of December 31, 2008.        Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan        In 2002, the Company implemented its dividend reinvestment and
stock purchase plan ( 2002 DRP ), which allows participating stockholders to purchase additional shares of the Company s common stock through automatic reinvestment of dividends or optional cash investments. The Company has
7.5 million shares available for issuance under the 2002 DRP at December 31, 2008.        Employee Stock Ownership Plan        The Company has an internally leveraged employee stock ownership plan ( ESOP ) in which substantially all former employees of Hibernia participate. In
accordance with the merger agreement with Hibernia, assets of the ESOP trust were allocated solely for the benefit of participants who were employees of Hibernia and its subsidiaries immediately prior to the merger date. The ESOP trust owned 924,443
and 1,012,658 shares of common stock at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. The Company makes annual contributions to the ESOP in an amount determined by the Company s Board of Directors (or a committee authorized
by the Board of Directors), but at least equal to the ESOP s minimum debt service less dividends received by the ESOP. Dividends received by the ESOP in 2008 were used to pay debt service. As of December 31, 2008, the debt had been fully
repaid.      The ESOP shares were initially pledged as collateral for its debt. As the debt is repaid, shares are released from collateral and allocated to
active participants. The remaining collateral shares are reported as a reduction to paid-in capital in equity. As shares are committed to be released, the Company reports compensation expense equal to the current market value of the shares, and the
shares become outstanding for earnings per share calculations. Dividends on allocated ESOP shares are recorded as a reduction of retained earnings; dividends on unallocated ESOP shares are recorded as a reduction of contributions due to the ESOP.
     Compensation expense of $4.4 million and $6.2 million relating to the ESOP was recorded by the Company for the years ended December 31, 2008 and
December 31, 2007, respectively. The ESOP held 924,443 and 842,751 allocated shares at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. At December 31, 2008, there were no shares held in suspense. At December 31, 2007,
there were 169,907 shares held in suspense with a fair value of $8.0 million.         
   114   

Table of Contents  

    Note 10        Shareholders  Equity, Other Comprehensive Income and Earnings Per Common Share        Preferred Shares       On November 14, 2008 the Company entered into an agreement (the  Securities Purchase Agreement ) to issue 3,555,199 Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual
Preferred Shares, Series A, par value $0.01 per share ( the  Series A Preferred Stock ), to the United States Department of the Treasury ( U.S. Treasury ) as part of the Company s participation in the CPP, having a
liquidation amount per share equal to $1,000. The Series A Preferred Stock pays cumulative dividends at a rate of 5% per year for the first five years and thereafter at a rate of 9% per year. The Company may not redeem the Series A
Preferred Stock during the first three years except with the proceeds from a  qualified equity offering.  The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act includes provisions that would allow the Company to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock
using proceeds other than those received from a  qualified equity offering  under certain circumstances and with regulatory approval. After three years, the Company may, at its option, redeem the Series A Preferred Stock at the liquidation
amount plus accrued and unpaid dividends. The Series A Preferred Stock is generally non-voting.      In addition, the Company issued a warrant (the
 Warrant ) to purchase 12,657,960 of the Company s common shares to the U.S. Treasury as part of the Securities Purchase Agreement. The Warrant has an exercise price of $42.13 per share. The Warrant expires ten years from the issuance
date. If, on or prior to December 31, 2009, the Company receives aggregate gross cash proceeds of not less than the purchase price of the Series A Preferred Stock from one or more  qualified equity offerings  announced after
October 13, 2008, the number of shares of common stock issuable pursuant to the U.S. Treasury s exercise of the Warrant will be reduced by one-half of the original number of shares, taking into account all adjustments, underlying the
Warrant. Pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement, the U.S. Treasury has agreed not to exercise voting power with respect to any shares of common stock issued upon exercise of the Warrant.      The Company received proceeds of $3.55 billion for the Series A Preferred Stock and the Warrant. The Company allocated the proceeds based on a relative fair value basis
between the Series A Preferred Stock and the Warrant, recording $3.06 billion and $491.5 million, respectively. Fair value of the preferred stock was estimated using independent quotes from third party sources who considered the structure,
subordination and size of the preferred stock issuance in comparison to the trust preferred securities issued by special purpose trusts established by the Company. Fair value of the stock warrant was estimated using a pricing model with the most
significant assumptions being the forward dividend yield and implied volatility of the Company s stock price. The $3.06 billion of Series A Preferred Stock is net of a discount of $491.5 million. The discount will be accreted to the $3.55
billion liquidation preference amount over a five year period. The accretion of the discount and dividends on the preferred stock reduce net income available to common shareholders.      The Company is subject to a number of restrictions as a result of participation in the CPP. Among these are restrictions on dividend payments to common shareholders and restrictions on share repurchases. If the Series
A Preferred Stock has not been redeemed by November 14, 2011 or the U.S. Treasury has not transferred the Series A Preferred Stock to a third party, the consent of the U.S Treasury will be required to (1) declare or pay any dividend or
make any distribution on the Company s common stock (other than regular quarterly cash dividends of not more than $0.375 per share of common stock) or (2) redeem, purchase or acquire any shares of our common stock or other equity or
capital securities, other than in connection with benefit plans consistent with past practice and certain other circumstances specified in the Securities Purchase Agreement.       Common Shares        Secondary Equity Offering       On September 30, 2008, the Company raised $760.8 million through the issuance of 15,527,000 shares of common stock at $49 per share.       Share Repurchases       On January 31, 2008, the Company s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to
$2.0 billion of the Company s common stock. The Company did not repurchase any shares during 2008 under this authorization due to market conditions. Any future repurchases are subject to the conditions of the Securities Purchase Agreement
entered into with the U.S. Treasury as noted above. The Company has no intention to repurchase shares at this time.      On January 25, 2007, the Company
announced a $3.0 billion share repurchase program. On March 12, 2007, the Company entered into a $1.5 billion accelerated share repurchase ( ASR ) agreement with Credit Suisse, New York Branch ( CSNY ). Under the ASR
agreement, the Company purchased $1.5 billion of its $.01 par value common stock at an initial price of $73.57 per share, the closing price of the Company s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on April 2, 2007, the effective date
of the agreement. The ASR program was accounted for as an initial treasury stock transaction and a forward stock purchase contract. The initial repurchase of shares resulted in an immediate reduction of the outstanding shares used to calculate the
weighted-average common shares outstanding for basic and diluted EPS on the effective date of the agreement. The forward stock purchase contract was classified as an equity instrument and was deemed to have a fair value of $0 at the effective date.
        
   115   

Table of Contents  

   An ASR combines the immediate share retirement benefits of a tender offer with the market impact and pricing benefits of
an open stock repurchase program. The ASR agreement provided that the Company or CSNY would be obligated to make certain additional payments upon final settlement of the ASR agreement. Most significantly, the Company would receive from, or be
required to pay, CSNY a purchase price adjustment based on the daily volume weighted average market price of the Company s common stock over a period beginning after the effective date of the agreement through on or around August 22, 2007.
These additional payments were to be satisfied in shares of the Company s common stock. On August 27, 2007, the ASR program terminated with the delivery of 343,512 shares back to CSNY for a net share retirement of 20,045,233 shares.
     The arrangements were intended to comply with Rules 10b5-1(c)(1)(i) and 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.      In addition to the $1.5 billion ASR, the Company repurchased $1.5 billion of shares in open market repurchases during the year ended December 31, 2007. The impact
of the share repurchases, including the ASR, on basic and diluted EPS for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $0.21 and $0.20, respectively. The impact on basic and diluted EPS from continuing operations for the year ended December 31,
2007 was $0.34 and $0.33, respectively.       Other Comprehensive Income       The following table presents the cumulative balances of the components of other comprehensive income, net of deferred tax of $521.7 million, $4.9 million, and $14.3 million as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively:       

(1)      
    Includes net unrealized gains (losses) on securities available for sale, retained subordinated tranches and pension
securities.         During 2008, 2007 and 2006, the Company reclassified $9.0 million, $34.7 million and $10.1 million, respectively, of net
gains, after tax, on derivative instruments from cumulative other comprehensive income into earnings.      During 2008, 2007 and 2006, the Company reclassified
$11.1 million, $28.3 million, and $(81.9) million, respectively, of net gains (losses) on sales of securities, after tax, from cumulative other comprehensive income into earnings.       Earnings Per Common Share       The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per common
share:       
       
   116   

Table of Contents  

Note 11        Retirement Plans        Defined Contribution Plan       The Company sponsors a contributory Associate Savings Plan in which substantially all full-time and certain part-time associates are eligible to participate. The Company makes contributions to each eligible associate s account, matches
a portion of associate contributions and makes discretionary contributions based upon the Company meeting a certain earnings per share target or other performance metrics. The Company s contributions to this plan amounted to $110.3 million,
$73.6 million and $70.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.      The Company sponsors other defined contribution
plans that were assumed through recent acquisitions. These plans were all merged into the Company s Associate Savings Plan at the end of 2007. As a result, there were no contributions of cash and shares of the Company s common stock to
these plans in 2008. In prior years, contributions of cash and shares of the Company s common stock totaled $35.6 million and $12.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, were made to these plans.   
   Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans       The Company sponsors defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans. Pension plans include a legacy frozen cash balance plan and plans assumed in the North Fork acquisition, including two qualified defined benefit
pension plans and several non-qualified defined benefit pension plans. The Company s legacy pension plan and the two qualified pension plans from the North Fork acquisition were merged into a single plan effective December 31, 2007. Other
postretirement benefit plans including a legacy plan and plans assumed in the Hibernia and North Fork acquisitions, all of which provide medical and life insurance benefits, were merged into a single plan effective January 1, 2008.      The Company s pension plans and the other postretirement benefit plans were valued using a December 31 measurement date.      The Company s policy is to amortize prior service amounts on a straight-line basis over the average remaining years of service to full eligibility for benefits of
active plan participants.      The following table sets forth, on an aggregated basis, changes in the benefit obligations and plan assets, how the funded
status is recognized in the balance sheet, and the components of net periodic benefit cost.       
       
   117   

Table of Contents  

During 2008, the Company recognized a settlement within the qualified pension plan due to making lump-sum cash
payments to former employees of GreenPoint s mortgage origination operations in exchange for their rights to receive specified pension benefits.      During 2007, the Company recognized curtailments attributable to the freezing of one of the qualified plans assumed in the North Fork acquisition and to the termination of employees in the closure of GreenPoint s mortgage origination
operations. Special termination benefits in 2007 relate to the Company s offering of immediate vesting in pension benefits to eligible employees who were terminated in the closure of GreenPoint s mortgage origination operations. The $22.1
million reduction in other postretirement benefit obligation from plan amendments in 2007 relates to the Company s decision to begin phasing out its contributions toward retiree health care costs so that employees becoming retirement eligible
in 2013 and later years will receive no employer contributions.      Pre tax amounts recognized in cumulative other comprehensive income that have not yet been
recognized as a component of net periodic benefit cost consist of:       
       
   118   

Table of Contents  

   Pretax amounts in cumulative other comprehensive income that are expected to be recognized as decreases (increases) of
net periodic benefit cost for the year ending December 31, 2009 consist of:       
    The following table sets forth the aggregate benefit obligation and aggregate fair value of plan assets for plans
with benefit obligations in excess of plan assets. Based on the status of the Company s pension plans, the information presented also represents the aggregate pension accumulated benefit obligation and aggregate fair value of plan assets for
pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets.       
    The following table presents weighted-average assumptions used in the accounting for the plans:       
    To develop the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption, consideration was given to the current
level of expected returns on risk-free investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns of each
asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then weighted based on the target asset allocation to develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio.      Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the other postretirement benefit plans. A one-percentage point change in
assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:       
      Plan Assets        The qualified defined benefit pension plan asset allocations as of the annual measurement dates are as follows:       
       
   119   

Table of Contents  

   The investment guidelines provide the following asset allocation targets and ranges: domestic equity target of 50% and
allowable range of 45% to 55%, international equity target of 20% and allowable range of 15% to 25%, and domestic debt securities target of 30% and allowable range of 25% to 40%.        Expected future benefit payments        The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as
appropriate, are expected to be paid:       
    In 2009, $0.9 million in contributions are expected to be made to the pension plans, and $3.5 million in
contributions are expected to be made to the other postretirement benefit plans.       Note 12        Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities       Effective January 1, 2008,
the Company adopted SFAS 157, which provides a framework for measuring fair value under GAAP. SFAS 157 defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or
most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. SFAS 157 requires that valuation techniques maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable
inputs. SFAS 157 also establishes a fair value hierarchy which prioritizes the valuation inputs into three broad levels. Based on the underlying inputs, each fair value measurement in its entirety is reported in one of the three levels. These levels
are:       

Level 1   Valuation is based upon quoted prices for identical instruments traded in active markets. Level 1 assets and liabilities include debt and equity
securities traded in an active exchange market, as well as U.S. Treasury securities.          

Level 2   Valuation is based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that
are not active, and model based valuation techniques for which all significant assumptions are observable in the market or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.

Level 3   Valuation is determined using model-based techniques with significant assumptions not observable in the market. These unobservable assumptions
reflect the Company s own estimates of assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques include the use of third party pricing services, option pricing models, discounted cash flow models
and similar techniques.         The Company also adopted SFAS 159 on January 1, 2008. SFAS 159 allows an entity the irrevocable option to
elect fair value for the initial and subsequent measurement for certain financial assets and liabilities on a contract-by-contract basis. SFAS 159 requires that the difference between the carrying value before election of the fair value option and
the fair value of these instruments be recorded as an adjustment to beginning retained earnings in the period of adoption. The initial adoption of SFAS 159 did not have a material effect on the consolidated earnings and financial position of the
Company.       Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis       The following table reflects the fair values of assets and liabilities measured and recognized at fair value on a recurring basis on the consolidated balance sheet.       
       
   120   

Table of Contents  

(1)  
  The Company does not offset the fair value of derivative contracts in a loss position against the fair value of contracts in a gain position. The Company also does not offset fair
value amounts recognized for derivative instruments and fair value amounts recognized for the right to reclaim cash collateral or the obligation to return cash collateral arising from derivative instruments executed with the same counterparty under
a master netting arrangement.        Financial instruments are considered Level 3 when their values are determined using pricing models, discounted
cash flow methodologies or similar techniques and at least one significant model assumption or input is unobservable. Level 3 financial instruments also include those for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment
or estimation. The table below presents a reconciliation for all assets and liabilities measured and recognized at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) during 2008. All Level 3 instruments presented in the
table were carried at fair value prior to the adoption of SFAS 159.       Level 3 Instruments Only        

(1)  
  Gains (losses) related to Level 3 mortgage servicing rights are reported in mortgage servicing and other income, which is a component of non-interest income.

(2)  
  An end of quarter convention is used to measure derivative activity, resulting in end of quarter values being reflected as purchases, issuances and settlements for derivatives
having a zero fair value at inception. Gains (losses) related to Level 3 derivative receivables and derivative payables are reported in other non-interest income, which is a component of non-interest income.     

(3)  
  An end of quarter convention is used to reflect activity in retained interests in securitizations, resulting in all transactions and assumption changes being reflected as if they
occurred on the last day of the quarter. Gains (losses) related to Level 3 retained interests in securitizations are reported in servicing and securitizations income, which is a component of non-interest income.     

(4)  
  Level 3 assets increased $2.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008, due primarily to the reclassification of AAA rated non-agency mortgage backed securities backed by
prime jumbo collateral. The ongoing capital markets dislocation has decreased new issuance and secondary trading volumes for many fixed income markets. This lower level of activity makes it increasingly difficult to find consistent pricing of many
fixed income securities. The pricing of our prime jumbo non-agency mortgage-backed securities continued to exhibit a variation that was outside of our Level 2 assets policy tolerances. Consequently, we reassigned additional securities to Level 3.
       The amount of Level 3 securities will likely continue to be a function of market conditions. An increase in dislocation and
corresponding decrease in new issuance and trading volumes could result in the reclassification of additional securities to Level 3. If market conditions improve and pricing transparency and consistency increase, assets currently classified as Level
3 could be reclassified to Level 2.         
   121   

Table of Contents  

    Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis       The Company is also required to measure and recognize certain other financial assets at fair value on a nonrecurring basis in the consolidated balance sheet. For assets
measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis in 2008 and still held on the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2008, the following table provides the fair value measures by level of valuation assumptions used and the amount of fair
value adjustments recorded in earnings for those assets in 2008. Fair value adjustments for mortgage loans held for sale are recorded in other non-interest expense and fair value adjustments for loans held for investment are recorded in provision
for loan and lease losses in the consolidated statement of income.       
     Fair Value of Financial Instruments        The following reflects the fair value of financial instruments whether or not recognized on the consolidated balance sheet at fair value.       
    The following describes the valuation techniques used in estimating the fair value of the Company s financial
instruments as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. At December 31, 2008, the Company applied the provisions of SFAS 157 to the fair value measurements of financial instruments not recognized on the consolidated balance sheet at fair value,
which include loans held for investment, interest receivable, non-interest bearing and interest bearing deposits, other borrowings, senior and subordinated notes, and interest payable. The provisions requiring the Company to maximize the use of
observable inputs and to measure fair value using a notion of exit price were factored into the Company s selection of inputs into its established valuation techniques.       Financial Assets         Cash and cash equivalents        The carrying amounts of cash and due from banks, federal funds sold and resale agreements and interest-bearing deposits at other banks approximate fair value.   
     
   122   

Table of Contents  

     Securities available for sale        Quoted prices in active markets are used to measure the fair value of U.S Treasury securities. For other investment categories, the Company engages third party pricing services to provide fair value measurements. The
techniques used by the pricing services utilize observable market data to the extent available. The Company corroborates the pricing obtained the pricing services though comparison of pricing to additional sources, including other pricing services,
securities dealers, and internal sources.      Certain securities available for sale are classified as Level 3, the majority of which are non-agency
mortgage-backed securities backed by prime collateral. Classification of Level 3 indicates that significant valuation assumptions are not consistently observable in the market. When significant assumptions are not consistently observable, fair
values are derived using the best available data. Such data may include quotes provided by a dealer, the use of external pricing services, independent pricing models, or other model-based valuation techniques such as calculation of the present
values of future cash flows incorporating assumptions such as benchmark yields, spreads, prepayment speeds, credit ratings, and losses.        Mortgage
loans held for sale        Mortgage loans held for sale are carried at the lower of aggregate cost, net of deferred fees, deferred origination costs and
effects of hedge accounting, or fair value. The fair value of mortgage loans held for sale is determined using current secondary market prices for portfolios with similar characteristics. The carrying amounts as of December 31, 2008 and
December 31, 2007 approximates fair value.        Loans held for investment        The fair values of credit card loans, installment loans, auto loans, mortgage loans and commercial loans were estimated using a discounted cash flow method, a form of the income approach. Discount rates were
determined considering rates at which similar portfolios of loans would be made under current conditions and considering liquidity spreads applicable to each loan portfolio based on the secondary market. The fair value of credit card loans excluded
any value related to customer account relationships. The decrease in fair value below carrying amount at December 31, 2008 is primarily due to the significant level of illiquidity in the secondary market experienced during 2008. The most
significant discounts to carrying amount were seen in the Company s commercial and mortgage portfolios.      Commercial loans are considered impaired in
accordance with the provisions of SFAS 114 when it is probable that all amounts due in accordance with the contractual terms will not be collected. From time to time, the Company records nonrecurring fair value adjustments to reflect the fair value
of the loan s collateral. See table within  Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis  above.        Interest
receivable        The carrying amount approximates the fair value of this asset due to its relatively short-term nature.        Accounts receivable from securitizations        Retained interests
in securitizations include the interest-only strip, retained senior tranches, retained subordinated notes, cash reserve accounts and cash spread accounts. The Company uses a valuation model that calculates the present value of estimated future cash
flows. The model incorporates the Company s own estimates of assumptions market participants use in determining fair value, including estimates of payment rates, defaults, discount rates including adjustments for liquidity, and contractual
interest and fees. Other retained interests related to securitizations are carried at cost, which approximates fair value.        Derivative Assets
       Most of the Company s derivatives are not exchange traded but instead traded in over the counter markets where quoted market prices are not
readily available. The fair value of those derivatives is derived using models that use primarily market observable inputs, such as interest rate yield curves, credit curves, option volatility and currency rates. Any derivative fair value
measurements using significant assumptions that are unobservable are classified as Level 3, which include interest rate swaps whose remaining terms extend beyond market observable interest rate yield curves. The impact of Capital One s non
performance risk is considered when measuring the fair value of derivative liabilities. These derivatives are included in other assets on the balance sheet.        Mortgage servicing rights        MSRs do not trade in an active market with readily observable prices. Accordingly, the Company determines
the fair value of MSRs using a valuation model that calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing income. The model incorporates assumptions that market participants use in estimating future net servicing income, including estimates
of prepayment spreads, discount rate, cost to service, contractual servicing fee income, ancillary income and late fees. Since the adoption of SFAS 156 in 2007, the Company records MSRs at fair value on a recurring basis. Fair value measurements of
MSRs use significant unobservable inputs and, accordingly, are classified as Level 3. The valuation technique for these securities is discussed in more detail in Note 13.       
  
   123   

Table of Contents  

    Financial Liabilities         Non-interest bearing deposits        The carrying amount approximates fair value.        Interest bearing deposits        The fair values of savings, NOW
accounts and money market accounts were the amounts payable on demand at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and therefore carrying value approximates fair value. The fair value of other interest-bearing deposits, including retail, brokered, and
institutional CDs, was calculated by discounting the future cash flows using discount rates based on the expected current market rates for similar products with similar remaining terms.        Other borrowings        The carrying amount of federal funds purchased and resale agreements, FHLB advances, and
other short-term borrowings approximates fair value. The fair value of secured borrowings was measured using the trade price for bonds that have traded recently. For others, trade information for bonds with similar duration and credit qualify was
used, with adjustments based on relevant credit information of the issuer. The fair value of junior subordinated debentures was estimated using the same methodology as described for senior and subordinated notes below. The decreases in fair value of
the secured borrowings and the junior subordinated debentures below carrying amounts at December 31, 2008 are primarily due to significant interest rate spreads in the auto securitization market experienced in 2008 and the significant discounts
in secondary trading activity seen in junior subordinated debentures in 2008.        Senior and subordinated notes        The Company engages a third party pricing service in order to estimate the fair value of senior and subordinated notes. The pricing service utilizes a pricing model that
incorporates available trade, bid and other market information. It also incorporates spread assumptions, volatility assumptions and relevant credit information into the pricing models. The decrease in fair value below carrying amount at
December 31, 2008 is primarily due to an increase in credit spreads across the industry only partially offset by lower interest rates.        Interest
payable        The carrying amount approximates the fair value of this liability due to its relatively short-term nature.        Derivative Liabilities        Most of the Company s derivatives
are not exchange traded but instead traded in over the counter markets where quoted market prices are not readily available. The fair value of those derivatives is derived using models that use primarily market observable inputs, such as interest
rate yield curves, credit curves, option volatility and currency rates. Any derivative fair value measurements using significant assumptions that are unobservable are classified as Level 3, which include interest rate swaps whose remaining terms
extend beyond market observable interest rate yield curves. The impact of Capital One s non performance risk is considered when measuring the fair value of derivative liabilities. These derivatives are included in other liabilities on the
balance sheet.        Commitments to extend credit and letters of credit        These financial instruments generally are not sold or traded. The fair value of the financial guarantees outstanding at December 31, 2008 that have been issued since January 1, 2003, was $3.5 million and was
included in other liabilities. The estimated fair values of extensions of credit and letters of credit are not readily available. However, the fair value of commitments to extend credit and letters of credit is based on fees currently charged to
enter into similar agreements with comparable credit risks and the current creditworthiness of the counterparties. Commitments to extend credit issued by the Company are generally short-term in nature and, if drawn upon, are issued under current
market terms and conditions for credits with comparable risks. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, there was no material unrealized appreciation or depreciation on these financial instruments.         
   124   

Table of Contents  

    Note 13        Mortgage
Servicing Rights       MSRs are recognized when mortgage loans are sold in the secondary market and the right to service these loans are retained for a fee,
and are carried at fair value; changes in fair value are recognized in mortgage servicing and other income. The Company may enter into derivatives to economically hedge changes in fair value of MSRs. The Company originally sold mortgage loans
through whole loan sales transactions and in some instances the loans were subsequently securitized by the third party purchaser and transferred into a VIE. The Company typically does not have any continuing involvement other than its right to
service the loans and the Company does not hold subordinate residual interests or enter into other guarantees or liquidity agreements with these structures. The Company records the MSR at estimated fair value and has no other loss exposure over and
above the recorded fair value. The servicing fee does not represent a variable interest in the VIE and thus, the Company could not be deemed the primary beneficiary of these structures.      The Company continues to operate the mortgage servicing business and to report the changes in the fair value of MSRs in continuing operations. To evaluate and measure fair value, the underlying loans are stratified
based on certain risk characteristics, including loan type, note rate and investor servicing requirements. The following table sets forth the changes in the fair value of mortgage servicing rights during 2008 and 2007:       
    Fair value adjustments to the MSR for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 included a $21.7 million and a
$56.9 million, respectively, decrease due to run-off in the serviced portfolio and a $72.5 million and $25.3 million, respectively, decrease due to changes in the valuation inputs and assumptions.      The valuation adjustments for the MSR were partially offset by changes in the fair value of economic hedging instruments of $83.9 million and $44.4 million for the year
ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which were recognized in non-interest income. For additional information on hedging activities, refer to note 17.      The significant assumptions used in estimating the fair value of the servicing assets at December 31 were as follows:       
    At December 31, 2008, the sensitivities to immediate 10% and 20% increases in the weighted average prepayment
rates would decrease the fair value of mortgage servicing rights by $8.1 million and $15.3 million, respectively.      As of December 31, 2008, the
Company s mortgage loan servicing portfolio consisted of mortgage loans with an aggregate unpaid principal balance of $32.2 billion, of which $23.0 billion was serviced for investors other than the Company. As of December 31, 2007, the
Company s mortgage loan servicing portfolio consisted of mortgage loans with an aggregate unpaid principal balance of $42.0 billion, of which $29.4 billion was serviced for investors other than the Company.      Servicing income, which includes contractual servicing fees, late fees and ancillary fees, totaled $94.2 million, $174.3 million and $7.5 million for the year ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In December 2006, the Company completed its acquisition of North Fork and as a result, mortgage servicing income for 2006 represents income earned from the acquisition date. Servicing income is
recorded in non-interest income.       Note 14        Restructuring       During the second quarter of 2007, the Company announced a broad-based initiative to reduce expenses and improve the
competitive cost position of the Company. Restructuring initiatives leverage the capabilities of recently completed infrastructure projects in several of the Company s businesses. The scope and timing of the expected cost reductions are the
result of an ongoing, comprehensive review of operations within and across the Company s businesses, which began early in 2007.      The Company
anticipates recording charges of approximately $30.0 million in excess of the original $300.0 million pre-tax over the course of the cost reduction initiative as the Company has extended the intiative due to the continued economic deterioration.
Approximately half of these charges are related to severance benefits, while the remaining charges are associated with items such as contract and lease terminations and consolidation of facilities and infrastructure.         
   125   

Table of Contents  

   Restructuring expenses associated with continuing operations were comprised of the following:       
    Employee termination benefits include charges for executives and charges for associates of the Company of $18.7
million and $67.2 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2008.      The Company made $100.8 million and $37.2 million in cash payments for
restructuring charges during the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, that related to employee termination benefits. Restructuring accrual activity associated with the Company s cost initiative for the year ended
December 31, 2008 and 2007 was as follows:       
     Note 15        Other Non-Interest Expense       The following table represents the components that comprise other non-interest expense:       
     Note 16        Income Taxes       The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with SFAS 109, recognizing the current and deferred tax consequences of
all transactions that have been recognized in the consolidated financial statements using the provisions of the enacted tax laws. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between the financial reporting and tax bases
of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely
than not to be realized.         
   126   

Table of Contents  

   Significant components of the provision for income taxes attributable to continuing operations were as follows:
      
    Income tax benefits of $31.7 million and $121.9 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, were allocated directly to
reduce goodwill from acquisitions. Income tax benefit reported in shareholders  equity was as follows:       
    The reconciliation of income tax attributable to continuing operations computed at the U.S. federal statutory tax
rate to income tax expense was:       
    During 2008, 2007, and 2006, the Company s income tax expense was reduced by $0, $12.0 million and $70.7
million, respectively, due to the resolution of certain tax issues and audits for prior years with the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ). This reduction represented the release of previous accruals for potential audit adjustments which were
subsequently settled or eliminated and further refinement of existing tax exposures.      Significant components of the Company s deferred tax assets and
liabilities as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 were as follows:       
       
   127   

Table of Contents  

The Company has net operating loss carryforwards for state purposes with a tax value of $65.2 million that expire
from 2009 to 2028. The Company has a foreign net operating loss carryforward with a tax value of $40.2 million with no expiration date. The Company has foreign tax credit carryforwards of $131.1 million that expire in 2014 through 2018.   
  The valuation allowance was increased by $46.4 million to adjust the tax benefit of certain state deferred tax assets and net operating loss carryforwards to the
amount the Company has determined is more likely than not to be realized.      The deferred tax liability for deferred revenue represents late fees, cash
advance fees and overlimit fees. These items are generally treated as original issue discount ( OID ) for tax purposes and recognized over the life of the related credit card receivables. These items are recognized in the income statement
as income in the year earned. For income statement purposes, late fees are reported as interest income, and cash advance fees and overlimit fees are reported as non- interest income.       
    In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48 .  FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes
recognized in accordance with SFAS 109,   and prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also
provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition.      The Company adopted
the provisions of FIN 48 effective January 1, 2007. As a result of adoption, the Company recorded a $29.7 million reduction in retained earnings. The reduction in retained earnings upon adoption is the net impact of a $46.5 million increase in
the liability for unrecognized tax benefits and a $16.8 million increase in deferred tax assets. In addition, the Company reclassified $471.1 million of unrecognized tax benefits from deferred tax liabilities to current taxes payable to conform to
the deferred tax measurement and balance sheet presentation requirements of FIN 48.         
   128   

Table of Contents  

   The Company recognizes accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax
expense. During 2008 and 2007, $30.5 million and 34.3 million, respectively, of net interest was included in income tax expense. The accrued balance of interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits is presented in the table below.
     A reconciliation of the change in unrecognized tax benefits from January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2008 is as follows:       
    The Company is subject to examination by the IRS and other tax authorities in certain countries and states in
which the Company has significant business operations. The tax years subject to examination vary by jurisdiction. The IRS is currently examining the Company s federal income tax returns for the years 2005 and 2006. During 2007, the IRS
concluded its examination of the Company s federal income tax returns for the years 2003 and 2004, and its examinations of the final separate federal income tax returns for certain acquired subsidiaries. During 2008 and 2007, the Company made
cash payments to the IRS related to these concluded examinations which resulted in a reduction of approximately $190.2 million to the balance of net unrecognized tax benefits.      Tax issues for years 1995-1999 are pending in the U.S. Tax Court and the conclusion of those matters could impact tax years after 1999. At issue are proposed adjustments by the IRS with respect to the timing of
recognition of items of income and expense derived from the Company s credit card business in various tax years. It is reasonably possible that a settlement related to these timing issues, as well as a settlement of the audits of certain
acquired subsidiaries, may be made within twelve months of the reporting date. At this time, an estimate of the potential change to the amount of unrecognized tax benefits resulting from such a settlement cannot be made.      As of December 31, 2008, U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on approximately $266.7 million of unremitted earnings of
subsidiaries operating outside the U.S., in accordance with APB Opinion No. 23,  Accounting for Income Taxes Special Areas . These earnings are considered by management to be invested indefinitely. Upon repatriation of these earnings,
the Company could be subject to both U.S. income taxes (subject to possible adjustment for foreign tax credits) and withholding taxes payable to various foreign countries. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred U.S. income tax
liability and foreign withholding tax on these unremitted earnings is not practicable at this time because such liability is dependent upon circumstances existing if and when remittance occurs.      As of December 31, 2008, U.S. income taxes have not been provided for approximately $276.0 million of previously acquired thrift bad debt reserves created for tax
purposes as of December 31, 1987. These amounts, acquired as a result of the merger with North Fork Bancorporation, Inc., are subject to recapture in the unlikely event that CONA, as successor to North Fork Bank, makes distributions in excess
of earnings and profits, redeems its stock, or liquidates.       Note 17        Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities       The Company maintains a risk management strategy that incorporates the
use of derivative instruments to minimize significant unplanned fluctuations in earnings caused by interest rate and foreign exchange rate volatility. The Company s goal is to manage sensitivity to changes in rates by hedging the repricing or
maturity characteristics of certain balance sheet assets and liabilities, thereby limiting the impact on earnings. By using derivative instruments, the Company is exposed to credit and market risk on those derivative  
       
   129   

Table of Contents  

positions. The Company manages the market risk associated with interest rate and foreign exchange contracts by establishing and monitoring limits as to the
types and degree of risk that may be undertaken. Credit risk is equal to the extent of the fair value gain in a derivative, if the counterparty fails to perform. When the fair value of a derivative contract is positive, this generally indicates that
the counterparty owes the Company, and, therefore, creates a repayment risk for the Company. When the fair value of a derivative contract is negative, the Company owes the counterparty, and therefore, has no repayment risk. The Company minimizes the
credit (or repayment) risk in derivative instruments by entering into transactions with high-quality counterparties that are reviewed periodically by the Company s Asset and Liability Committee, a committee of Senior Management. The Company
also maintains a policy of requiring that all derivative contracts be governed by an International Swaps and Derivatives Association Master Agreement; depending on the nature of the derivative transaction, bilateral collateral agreements may be
required as well.      The Company uses interest rate swaps as part of its interest rate risk management strategy. Interest rate swaps generally involve the
exchange of fixed and variable rate interest payments between two parties, based on a common notional principal amount and maturity date. As a result of interest rate fluctuations, hedged assets and liabilities will appreciate or depreciate in
market value. To the extent that there is a high degree of correlation between the hedged asset or liability and the derivative instrument, the income or loss generated will generally offset the effect of this unrealized appreciation or
depreciation.      The Company s foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities expose it to foreign currency exchange risk. The Company enters into
various foreign exchange derivative contracts for managing foreign currency exchange risk. Changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument effectively offset the related foreign exchange gains or losses on the items to which they are
designated.      The Company has non-trading and trading derivatives that do not qualify as hedges. These derivatives are carried at fair value and changes in
value are included in current earnings.      The Asset and Liability Management Committee, as part of that committee s oversight of the Company s
asset/liability and treasury functions, monitors the Company s derivative activities. In accordance with the Company s asset/liability management policies, the Company reviews its risk profile on a monthly basis. The Company s Asset
and Liability Management Committee is responsible for approving hedging strategies. The resulting strategies are then incorporated into the Company s overall interest rate risk management strategies.      The following table provides the Notional Value and Fair Values of the Company s derivative instruments, aggregated by category, as of December 31, 2008 and
December 31, 2007.       

(1)  
  The Company s trading derivatives relate to customer-oriented derivative financial instruments.         Fair Value Hedges       The Company has entered into forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency denominated
investments against fluctuations in exchange rates. The purpose of the Company s foreign currency hedging activities is to protect the Company from the risk of adverse effects from movements in exchange rates.         
   130   

Table of Contents  

   The Company has also entered into interest rate swap agreements that modify the Company s exposure to interest rate
risk by effectively converting a portion of the Company s senior notes, public fund certificates of deposit, and U.S. Agency investments from fixed rates to variable rates over the next nine years. The agreements involve the receipt of fixed
rate amounts in exchange for floating rate interest payments over the life of the agreement without an exchange of underlying principal amounts.      Adjustments related to the ineffective portion of the fair value hedging instruments are recorded in interest income, interest expense or non-interest income depending on the hedged item. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007,
net gains or losses related to the ineffective portion of the Company s fair value hedging instruments were not material.       Cash Flow Hedges  
     The Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements that effectively modify the Company s exposure to interest rate risk by converting floating
rate debt to a fixed rate over the next five years. The agreements involve the receipt of floating rate amounts in exchange for fixed rate interest payments over the life of the agreement without an exchange of underlying principal amounts.
     The Company has entered into forward exchange contracts to reduce the Company s sensitivity to foreign currency exchange rate changes on its foreign
currency denominated loans. The forward rate agreements allow the Company to  lock-in  functional currency equivalent cash flows associated with the foreign currency denominated loans.      Any unrealized gains or losses related to cash flow hedging instruments are reclassified from other comprehensive income (loss) into earnings in the same period or
periods during which the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings and are recorded in interest income, interest expense or non-interest income depending on the hedged item.      Adjustments related to the ineffective portion of the cash flow hedging instruments are recorded in interest income, interest expense or non-interest income depending on the hedged item. For the years ended
December 31, 2008 and 2007, net gains or losses related to the ineffective portion of the Company s fair value hedging instruments were not material.      At December 31, 2008, the Company expects to reclassify $12.9 million of net gains, after tax, on derivative instruments from cumulative other comprehensive income to earnings during the next 12 months as terminated swaps are amortized
and as interest payments and receipts on derivative instruments occur.       Hedge of Net Investment in Foreign Operations       The Company uses forward exchange contracts to protect the value of its investment in its foreign subsidiaries. Realized and unrealized foreign currency gains and losses
from these hedges are not included in the income statement, but are shown in the translation adjustments in other comprehensive income. The purpose of these hedges is to protect against adverse movements in exchange rates.      For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, net gains (losses) of $6.8 million, $(0.5) million, and $1.5 million, respectively, related to these
derivatives were included in the cumulative translation adjustment.       Non-Trading Derivatives       The Company uses interest rate swaps to manage interest rate sensitivity related to loan securitizations. The Company enters into interest rate swaps with its
securitization trust and essentially offsets the derivative with separate interest rate swaps with third parties.      The Company uses interest rate swaps in
conjunction with its auto securitizations. These swaps have zero balance notional amounts unless the pay down of auto securitizations differs from its scheduled amortization.      The Company uses interest rate swaps and To Be Announced ( TBA ) forward contracts in conjunction with its mortgage servicing rights portfolio. These derivatives are designed to offset changes in the value
of mortgage servicing rights attributable to interest rate fluctuations.      In third quarter 2007, the Company shut down the mortgage origination operations
of its wholesale mortgage banking unit, GreenPoint. The results of the mortgage origination operation of GreenPoint have been accounted for as a discontinued operation and have been removed from the Company s results of continuing operations
for all periods presented. Prior to the shutdown of GreenPoint, the Company entered into commitments to originate or purchase loans whereby the interest rate of the loan was determined prior to funding ( interest rate lock commitment ).
Interest rate lock commitments on mortgage loans that the Company intended to sell in the secondary market were considered freestanding derivatives. These derivatives were carried at fair value with changes in fair value reported as a component of
gain on sale of loans. In accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No, 105,  Application of Accounting Principles to Loan Commitments , interest rate lock commitments were initially valued at zero. Changes in fair value subsequent to inception
were determined based on current secondary market prices for underlying loans with similar coupons, maturity and credit quality, subject to the anticipated probability that the loans would fund within the terms of the  
       
   131   

Table of Contents  

commitment. The initial value inherent in the loan commitments at origination was recognized through gain on sale of loans when the underlying loan was sold.
Both the interest rate lock commitments and the related hedging instruments were recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in current earnings as a component of gain on sale of loans. However, as of December 31, 2008 and 2007,
the Company has zero loan commitments due to the shutdown of GreenPoint.      These derivatives do not qualify as hedges and are recorded on the balance sheet
at fair value with changes in value included in current earnings in non-interest income.      For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, the
Company recognized gains/(losses) on the non-trading derivatives of $105.6 million, $52.6 million and $(38.2) million, respectively.       Trading
Derivatives       The Company enters into customer-oriented derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps, options, caps, floors, and
foreign exchange contracts. These customer-oriented positions may be matched with offsetting positions to minimize risk to the Company.      These derivatives
do not qualify as hedges and are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with changes in value included in current earnings in non-interest income.      For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, the Company recognized gains on the trading derivatives of $6.8 million, $3.2 million and $3.9 million, respectively.       Credit Default Swaps       The Company has exposure to credit default swaps related to loss mitigation for certain
manufactured housing securitization transactions issued by Greenpoint Credit LLC in 2000. The maximum exposure of these credit default swaps is $37.5 million and $40.9 million as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively.
The fair value of the Company s obligations under the credit default swaps was $20.8 million and $30.8 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and is recorded as other liabilities. See Note 18 for additional information about
manufactured housing securitization transactions.       Note 18        Securitizations       The Company actively engages in securitization transactions of loans for funding purposes. The Company receives the
proceeds from third party investors for securities issued from the Company s securitization vehicles which are collateralized by transferred receivables from the Company s portfolio. The Company removes loans from the reported financial
statements for securitizations that qualify as sales in accordance with SFAS 140. Alternatively, when the transfer would not be considered a sale but rather a financing, the assets will remain on the Company s reported financial statements with
an offsetting liability recognized in the amount of proceeds received. Loans included in securitization transactions which qualify as sales under GAAP have been removed from the Company s  reported  balance sheet, but are included
within the  managed  financial information, as shown in the table below.         
   132   

Table of Contents  

     Supplemental Loan Information         
      Accounts Receivable from Securitizations         

(1)    
        Other retained interests primarily includes investor accrued
billed and unbilled interest receivable, net of related finance charge and fee reserve.      

(2)    
        Collections on deposit for off-balance sheet securitizations
includes $1.755 billion and $123 million of principal collections accumulated for expected maturities of securitization transactions as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.           Off-Balance Sheet Securitizations        Off-balance sheet
securitizations involve the transfer of pools of loan receivables by the Company to one or more third-party trusts or QSPEs in transactions that are accounted for as sales in accordance with SFAS 140. The trusts can engage only in limited business
activities to maintain QSPE status. Certain undivided interests in the pool of loan receivables are sold to external investors as asset-backed securities in public underwritten offerings or private placement transactions. The proceeds from
off-balance sheet securitizations are distributed by the trusts to the Company as consideration for the loan receivables transferred. Each new off-balance sheet securitization results in the removal of loan principal receivables equal to the sold
undivided interests in the pool of loan receivables ( off-balance sheet loans ), the recognition of certain retained residual interests and a gain on the sale. Securities held by external investors totaling $44.3 billion and $48.2 billion
as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, represent undivided interests in the pools of loan receivables that are sold in underwritten offerings or in private placement transactions.      The remaining undivided interests in principal receivables and the related unpaid billed finance charge and fee receivables is considered transferor s interest
which is retained by the Company and continues to be recorded as loans on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as these loan receivables have not been sold to external investors. The amount of transferor s interest fluctuates as the accountholders
make principal payments and incur new charges on the accounts. The amount of retained loan receivables, representing transferor s interest was $13.5 billion and $11.0 billion as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.      The Company s retained residual interests in the off-balance sheet securitizations are recorded in accounts receivable from securitizations and are comprised of
interest-only strips, retained senior tranches, retained subordinated tranches, cash collateral accounts, cash reserve accounts and unpaid interest and fees on the investors  portion of the transferred principal receivables. The Company s
retained residual interests are generally restricted or subordinated to investors  interests and their value is subject to substantial credit, repayment and interest rate risks on transferred assets if the off-balance sheet loans are not paid
when due. As such, the interest-only strip and retained subordinated interests are classified as trading assets in accordance with SFAS 155 and changes in the estimated fair value are recorded in servicing and securitization income. Additionally,
the Company may also retain senior tranches in the securitization transactions which are considered to be higher investment grade securities and subject to lower risk of loss. The retained senior tranches are classified as available for sale
securities in accordance with SFAS 115     and changes in the estimated fair value are recorded in other comprehensive income.         
   133   

Table of Contents  

   During 2008, the Company recorded a reduction in the interest-only strip of $224.8 million due predominately to
increased credit losses related to the off-balance sheet loans. Additionally, the Company held more retained residual interests either because of higher enhancement levels required by the trusts for issuance of new securitizations or as part of our
strategy to hold senior retained tranches. These retained residual interests are subject to loss in the event assumptions used to determine the estimated fair value do not prevail, or if borrowers default on the related off-balance loans and the
Company s retained subordinate tranches are used to repay investors. See the table below for key assumptions and sensitivities for retained interest valuations.      The gain on sale recorded from off-balance sheet securitizations is based on the estimated fair value of the assets sold and retained and liabilities incurred, and is recorded at the time of sale, net of transaction
costs, in servicing and securitizations income on the Consolidated Statements of Income. The related receivable is the interest-only strip, which is based on the present value of the estimated future cash flows from excess finance charges and
past-due fees over the sum of the return paid to security holders, estimated contractual servicing fees and credit losses. The Company periodically reviews the key assumptions and estimates used in determining the value of the interest-only strip
and other retained interests. The Company classifies the interest-only strip as a trading asset in accordance with SFAS 155,   and SFAS 115  . The Company recognizes all changes in the fair value of the interest-only strip immediately in
servicing and securitizations income on the consolidated statements of income. In accordance with EITF 99-20 and FSP EITF 99-20, the interest component of cash flows attributable to retained interests in securitizations is recorded in other interest
income.       Key Assumptions for Retained Interest Valuations       The key assumptions used in determining the fair value of the interest-only strip and other retained residual interests resulting from securitizations of loan receivables completed during the period included the weighted average ranges for
net charge-off rates, principal repayment rates, lives of receivables and discount rates included in the following table. The net charge-off rates are determined using forecasted net charge-offs expected for the trust calculated consistently with
other company net charge-off forecasts. The principal repayment rate assumptions are determined using actual and forecasted trust principal repayment rates based on the collateral. The lives of receivables are determined as the number of months
necessary to pay off the investors given the principal repayment rate assumptions. The discount rates are determined using primarily trust specific statistics and forward rate curves, and are reflective of what market participants would use in a
similar valuation. Additionally cash reserve and spread accounts are discounted over the estimated life of the assets.       
    If these assumptions are not met, or if they change, the interest-only strip, retained interests and related
servicing and securitizations income would be affected. The following adverse changes to the key assumptions and estimates, presented in accordance with SFAS 140, are hypothetical and should be used with caution. As the figures indicate, any change
in fair value based on a 10% or 20% variation in assumptions cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of a change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the
fair value of the interest-only strip is calculated independently from any change in another assumption. However, changes in one factor may result in changes in other factors, which might magnify or counteract the sensitivities.       Key Assumptions and Sensitivities for Retained Interest Valuations        
       
   134   

Table of Contents  

(1)    
        The interest-only strip includes servicing liabilities which do
not fluctuate with changes to the valuation assumptions shown above.         Static pool credit losses are calculated by summing the actual and
projected future credit losses and dividing them by the original balance of each pool of assets. Due to the short-term revolving nature of the loan receivables, the weighted average percentage of static pool credit losses is not considered
materially different from the assumed charge-off rates used to determine the fair value of the retained interests.      The Company acts as a servicing agent
and receives contractual servicing fees of between 0.50% and 4% of the investor principal outstanding, based upon the type of assets serviced. The Company generally does not record material servicing assets or liabilities for these rights since the
contractual servicing fee approximates market rates.       Cash Flows Related to the Off Balance Sheet Securitizations       The Company receives proceeds from the trusts for off-balance sheet loans that are transferred and sold to external investors. The sources of funds available to pay
principal and interest on the asset-backed securities sold to investors include collections of both principal receivables and finance charge and fee receivables, credit enhancements such as subordination, spread accounts or reserve accounts and
derivative agreements, including interest rate or currency swaps.      Collections of principal are generally retained by the Company as the investors elect to
reinvest the collections in the purchase of new principal loan receivables ( revolving securitization ). However, the Company is required to remit principal collections to the trust when the securitization transaction is scheduled to
mature or earlier if an amortizing event has occurred. Securitization transactions may amortize earlier than scheduled due to certain early amortization triggers, which could require the Company to fund spread accounts, reduce the value of its
retained residual interests and ultimately require the off-balance sheet loans to be recorded on the Company s balance sheet and accelerate the need for alternative funding. Additionally, early amortization of securitization structures would
require the Company to record higher reserves for loan losses and would also have a significant impact on the ability of the Company to meet regulatory capital adequacy requirements. No early amortization events related to the Company s
off-balance sheet securitizations have occurred for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007.      Collections of interest and fees received on
securitized receivables are used to pay interest to investors, servicing and other fees, and are available to absorb the investors  share of credit losses. Amounts collected in excess of that needed to pay the above amounts are remitted, in
general, to the Company. Under certain conditions, some of the cash collected may be retained to ensure future payments to investors.       

(1)      
    Includes all cash receipts of excess spread and other payments (excluding servicing fees) from the trust to the Company.
        For the year ended December 31, 2008 the Company recognized gross gains of $58.4 million on both the public and private sale of
$10.0 billion of loan principal receivables compared to gross gains of $63.8 million on the sale of $12.6 billion of loan principal receivables for the year ended December 31, 2007 and gross gains of $50.4 million on the sale of $12.3 billion
of loans in 2006. These gross gains are included in servicing and securitizations income. In addition, the Company recognized, as a reduction to servicing and securitizations income, upfront securitization transaction costs and recurring credit
facility commitment fees of $43.9 million, $45.0 million, and $66.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 respectively. The remainder of servicing and securitizations income represents servicing income and excess
interest and non-interest income generated by the transferred receivables, less the related net losses on the transferred receivables and interest expense related to the securitization debt.       Secured Borrowings       In addition to issuing securitizations that
qualify as sales, the Company also issued securitizations that are accounted for as secured borrowings. Similar to off-balance sheet securitizations, the Company transfers a pool of loan receivables to a special purpose entity; however, these SPEs
do not qualify as QSPEs and thus, are considered VIEs that are consolidated by the Company. The transferred loan receivables continue to be accounted for as loans and the Company continues to carry an appropriate allowance for loan and lease loss
for these assets. The Company receives proceeds for the issuance of debt securities and the Company records the securitization debt in other borrowings. The investors and the trusts have no recourse to the Company s assets if the loans
associated with these secured borrowings are not paid when due. The Company has not provided any financial or other support during the periods presented that it was not previously contractually required to provide.         
   135   

Table of Contents  

   The agreements were entered into between 2005 and 2007, relating to the transfers of pools of auto loans totaling $25.1
billion to auto securitization trusts. Principal payments on the borrowings are based on principal collections, net of losses, on the transferred auto loans. The secured borrowings accrue interest predominantly at fixed rates and mature between
April 2009 and May 2011, or earlier depending upon the repayment of the underlying auto loans. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, $7.4 billion and $13.0 billion, respectively, of the secured borrowings were outstanding. At December 31, 2008
and 2007 the auto loans within the trust totaled $7.8 billion and $13.7 billion.      The Company is required to remit principal collections to the trusts when
the securitization transaction is scheduled to mature or earlier if an amortizing event has occurred. Securitization transactions may amortize earlier than scheduled due to certain early amortization triggers which would accelerate the need for
funding. No early amortization events related to the Company s securitizations accounted for as secured borrowings have occurred for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007.      Collections of interest and fees received on securitized receivables are used to pay interest to investors, servicing and other fees, and are available to absorb the investors  share of credit losses. Under
certain conditions, some of the cash collected may be retained to ensure future payments to investors. Amounts collected in excess of the amount that is used to pay the above amounts are generally remitted to the Company.      Also included within secured borrowings at December 31, 2008 is $140 million of tender option bonds related to the Company s investments in certain community
development entities which are consolidated variable interest entities. As at December 31, 2007, the amount of tender option bonds was $74 million. See Note 20 for further details.       Guarantees and Other Obligations         Manufactured Housing        The Company retains the primary obligation for certain provisions of corporate guarantees, recourse sales and clean-up calls related to the discontinued manufactured
housing operations of GreenPoint Credit LLC ( GPC ) which was sold to a third party in 2004. Although the Company is the primary obligor, recourse obligations related to former GPC whole loan sales as well as commitments to exercise
mandatory clean-up calls on certain GPC securitization transactions, and servicing was transferred to a third party in the sale transaction.      The Company
was required to fund letters of credit in 2004 to cover losses, is obligated to fund amounts under credit default swaps for certain transactions, has the right to any funds remaining in the letters of credit after the securities are released, the
right to residual funds in the securitizations after all other certificates have been paid and the obligation to pay certain negligible ongoing fees related to the transactions. The balance of the funded letters of credit was $221 million and $227
million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The fair value of the expected residual balances on the funded letters of credit was $11 million and $9 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and is included in other
assets. The Company s maximum exposure under the credit default swaps was $37.5 million and $40.9 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The fair value of the Company s obligations under the credit default swaps was
$20.8 million and $30.8 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and is recorded as other liabilities.      The principal balance of
manufactured housing securitization transactions where the Company is the residual interest holder was $1.7 billion and $1.9 billion, as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 respectively. In the event the third party does not fulfill on its
obligations to exercise the clean-up calls on certain transactions, approximately $420 million of loans receivable would be assumed by the Company upon execution of the call.      The Company could be required to cover losses on certain whole loan sales in the event the third party did not perform on its obligations. There have been no instances of non-performance by the third party.
     Management monitors the underlying assets for trends in delinquencies and related losses, and reviews the purchaser s financial strength as well as
servicing performance. These factors are considered in assessing the appropriateness of the liabilities established against these obligations and the valuations of the assets.         
   136   

Table of Contents  

     Securitization Guarantees        In connection with certain installment loan securitization transactions, the transferee (off-balance sheet special purpose entity receiving the installment loans) entered into interest rate hedge agreements (the
 swaps ) with a counterparty to reduce interest rate risk associated with the transactions. In connection with the swaps, the Corporation entered into letter agreements guaranteeing the performance of the transferee under the swaps. If at
anytime the Class A invested amount equals zero and the notional amount of the swap is greater than zero resulting in an  Early Termination Date  (as defined in the securitization transaction s Master Agreement), then (a) to
the extent that, in connection with the occurrence of such Early Termination Date, the transferee is obligated to make any payments to the counterparty pursuant to the Master Agreement, the Corporation shall reimburse the transferee for the full
amount of such payment and (b) to the extent that, in connection with the occurrence of an Early Termination Date, the transferee is entitled to receive any payment from the counterparty pursuant to the Master Agreement, the transferee will pay
to the Corporation the amount of such payment. At December 31, 2008, the maximum exposure to the Corporation under the letter agreements was approximately $13.0 million. These guarantees are not recorded on the balance sheet because they are
grandfathered under the provisions of FIN45.       Note 19        Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees        Letters of Credit       The Company issues letters of credit (financial standby, performance standby and commercial) to meet the financing needs of its customers. Standby letters of credit are conditional commitments issued by the Company to
guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party in a borrowing arrangement. Commercial letters of credit are short-term commitments issued primarily to facilitate trade finance activities for customers and are generally collateralized by
the goods being shipped to the client. Collateral requirements are similar to those for funded transactions and are established based on management s credit assessment of the customer. Management conducts regular reviews of all outstanding
letters of credit and customer acceptances, and the results of these reviews are considered in assessing the adequacy of the Company s allowance for loan and lease losses.      The Company had contractual amounts of standby letters of credit and commercial letters of credit of $1.3 billion at December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, financial guarantees had expiration dates
ranging from 2009 to 2015. The fair value of the guarantees outstanding at December 31, 2008 that have been issued since January 1, 2003, was $3.5 million and was included in other liabilities.       Loan and Line of Credit Commitments       The Company s discontinued
wholesale mortgage banking unit, GreenPoint, previously sold home equity lines of credit in whole loan sales and subsequently acquired a residual interest in certain special purpose entities which securitized some of those loans. Those special
purpose entities had aggregate assets of $140.3 million at December 31, 2008, representing the amount outstanding on the home equity lines of credit at that date. As residual interest holder, GreenPoint is required to fund advances on the home
equity lines of credit when certain performance triggers are met due to deterioration in asset performance. GreenPoint s ability to recover the full amount advanced to customers is dependent on monthly collections on the loans. In certain
limited circumstances, such future advances could be reduced if GreenPoint suspends the right of mortgagors to receive draws or reduces the credit limit on home equity lines of credit.      There are eight securitization transactions where GreenPoint is a residual interest holder with the longest draw period currently extending through 2023. GreenPoint has funded $15.6 million of advances through
December 31, 2008 related to these transactions. The Company believes it is probable that a loss has been incurred on several of these transactions due to the deterioration in asset performance through December 31, 2008. However, the
Company cannot estimate the possible loss or range of loss at this time. The maximum potential amount of future advances related to all third-party securitizations where GreenPoint is the residual interest holder is $207.3 million, an amount which
represents the total loan amount on the home equity lines of credit within those eight securitizations. The total unutilized amount as of December 31, 2008 is $67.0 million.       Industry Litigation       In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 5,  Accounting for Contingencies ,
( SFAS 5), the Company accrues for a litigation related liability when it is probable that such a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. In addition, the Company s subsidiary banks are members
of Visa U.S.A., Inc. (Visa). As members, the Company s subsidiary banks have indemnification obligations to Visa with respect to final judgments and settlements of certain litigation against Visa (the  Visa Covered Litigation ). The
Company accounts for its indemnification obligations to Visa in accordance with the provisions of FIN 45.      Over the past several years, MasterCard
International ( MasterCard ) and Visa, as well as several of their member banks, have been involved in several different lawsuits challenging various practices of MasterCard and Visa.         
   137   

Table of Contents  

   In November 2004, American Express filed an antitrust lawsuit (the  Amex lawsuit ) against MasterCard and Visa
and several member banks alleging, among other things, that the defendants jointly and severally implemented and enforced illegal exclusionary agreements that prevented member banks from issuing American Express cards. The complaint requested civil
monetary damages. The Company and two of its subsidiaries were named as defendants in this lawsuit. On November 7, 2007, Visa and American Express announced that the Amex lawsuit had been settled and that the remaining bank defendants named in
the lawsuit, including the Company and its subsidiaries, would be dropped as defendants and released from all claims asserted in the lawsuit. The Company recorded an expense of $79.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2007 in connection with the
settlement of the American Express litigation. That amount includes $48.0 million related to the settlement of the Company s liability and $31.8 million related to the Company s share of damages as a Visa member, which was recorded in
accordance with the provisions SFAS 5. Both amounts are included in other liabilities within our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2007 and are reported in other non-interest expense within our consolidated statement of income for the
year ended December 31, 2007.      In 2004, Discover Financial Services filed an antitrust lawsuit (the  Discover Lawsuit ) against MasterCard
and Visa alleging, among other things, that exclusionary agreements in the MasterCard and Visa rules prevented their member banks from issuing Discover cards. In October 2008, the parties announced a settlement of the lawsuit. The Company and its
subsidiaries were not defendants in the Discover Lawsuit, but the lawsuit qualified as Visa Covered Litigation. The settlement did not have a material impact on the Company s operations or financial condition.      In 2005, a number of entities, each purporting to represent a class of retail merchants, filed antitrust lawsuits (the  Interchange Lawsuits ) against
MasterCard and Visa and several member banks, including the Company and its subsidiaries, alleging among other things, that the defendants conspired to fix the level of interchange fees. The complaints seek injunctive relief and civil monetary
damages, which could be trebled. Separately, a number of large merchants have asserted similar claims against Visa and MasterCard only. In October 2005, the class and merchant Interchange lawsuits were consolidated before the United States District
Court for the Eastern District of New York for certain purposes, including discovery. Discovery is proceeding in these cases.      In 2007, a number of
individual plaintiffs, each purporting to represent a class of cardholders, filed antitrust lawsuits in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against several issuing banks, including the Company (the  In Re
Late Fees Litigation ). These lawsuits allege, among other things, that the defendants conspired to fix the level of late fees and over-limit fees charged to cardholders, and that these fees are excessive. In May 2007, the cases were
consolidated for all purposes and a consolidated amended complaint was filed alleging violations of federal statutes and state law. The amended complaint requests civil monetary damages, which could be trebled. In November 2007, the court dismissed
the amended complaint. Plaintiffs appealed that order to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. The plaintiffs  appeal challenges the dismissal of their National Bank Act, Depository Institutions Deregulation Act of 1980 and California Unfair
Competition Law claims, but not their antitrust conspiracy claims.      The Company believes it has meritorious defenses and intends to defend these cases
vigorously. Given the complexity of the issues raised by these lawsuits and the uncertainty regarding: (i) the outcome of these suits, (ii) the likelihood and amount of any possible judgments, (iii) the likelihood, amount and validity
of any claim against the member banks, including the Company and its subsidiary banks, (iv) changes in industry structure that may result from the suits and (v) the effects of these suits, in turn, on competition in the industry, member
banks and interchange fees, the Company cannot determine at this time the long-term effects of these suits.      In 2007, the Company recorded indemnification
liabilities of $90.9 million for certain Visa-related litigation. This total includes $31.8 million related to the settled Amex lawsuit which is discussed above, and $59.1 million, recorded in accordance with FIN 45, reflecting Capital One s
estimated share of potential damages as a Visa member from certain other Visa-related litigation.      In the first quarter of 2008, Visa completed an IPO of
its stock. With IPO proceeds Visa established an escrow account for the benefit of member banks to fund certain litigation settlements and claims. As a result, in the first quarter of 2008, the Company reduced its Visa-related indemnification
liabilities of $90.9 million recorded in other liabilities with a corresponding reduction of other non-interest expense.       Other Pending and Threatened
Litigation       In addition, the Company is commonly subject to various pending and threatened legal actions relating to the conduct of its normal business
activities. In the opinion of management, the ultimate aggregate liability, if any, arising out of any such pending or threatened legal actions will not be material to its consolidated financial position or its results of operations.      Tax issues for years 1995-1999 are pending in the U.S. Tax Court. Although the final resolution of the case is uncertain and involves unsettled areas of law, the Company
has accounted for this matter applying the recognition and measurement criteria of FIN 48.         
   138   

Table of Contents  

    Note 20        Other
Variable Interest Entities       The Company has various types of off-balance sheet arrangements that we enter into in the ordinary course of business.
Off-balance sheet activities typically utilize SPEs that may be in the form of limited liability companies, partnerships or trusts. The SPEs raise funds by issuing debt to third party investors. The SPEs hold various types of financial assets whose
cash flows are the primary source of repayment for the liabilities of the SPE. Investors only have recourse to the assets held by the SPE but may also benefit from other credit enhancements.      The Company is involved with various SPEs that are considered to be VIEs, as defined by FIN 46(R). With respect to its investments, the Company is required to
consolidate any VIE in which it is determined to be the primary beneficiary. The Company reviews all significant interests in VIEs it is involved with such as amounts and types of financial and other support including ownership interests, debt
financing and guarantees. The Company also considers its rights and obligations as well as the rights and obligations of other variable interest holders to determine whether it is required to consolidate the VIEs. To provide the necessary
disclosures, the Company aggregates similar VIEs based on the nature and purpose of the entities.      The Company s involvement in these arrangements can
take many different forms, including securitization activities, servicing activities, the purchase or sale of mortgage-backed and other asset backed securities in connection with our investment portfolio, and loans to VIEs that hold debt, equity,
real estate or other assets. In certain instances, the Company also provides guarantees to VIEs or holders of variable interests in VIEs. In addition to the information contained in this Note, the Company has disclosed its involvement with other
types of VIEs in Note 13   Mortgage Servicing Rights, Note 18   Securitizations and Note 19   Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees.      The Company may purchase and sell mortgage-backed securities and other asset-backed securities related to its investment portfolio. See Note 4   Securities Available for Sale for more detail on the Company s investment portfolio.
The Company s investment portfolio consists of CMBS, CMO, MBS and ABS investments that were issued by QSPEs or VIEs that are subject to the requirements of FIN 46(R). The Company s variable interest in these structures is limited to high
quality or investment grade securities and the Company does not hold subordinate residual interests or enter into other guarantees or liquidity agreements with these structures. The Company records its investment securities at fair value and has no
other loss exposure over and above the recorded fair value. The Company is not considered to be the primary beneficiary and the Company does not hold a significant interest in any specific structure.      As part of its community reinvestment initiatives, the Company invests in private investment funds that hold ownership interests in VIEs or provide debt financing to
VIEs to support multi-family affordable housing properties. The Company receives affordable housing tax credits for these investments. The activities of these entities are financed with a combination of invested equity capital and debt. The assets
of these entities at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 were approximately $5.2 billion and $4.1 billion, respectively. The Company is not required to consolidate these entities because it does not absorb the majority of the
entities  expected losses nor does it receive a majority of the entities  expected residual returns. The Company records its interests in these unconsolidated VIEs in loans held for investment, other assets and other liabilities. As
referenced in the table below, the Company s maximum exposure to these entities is limited to its variable interests in the entities. The creditors of the VIEs have no recourse to the general credit of the Company. The Company has not provided
additional financial or other support during the period that it was not previously contractually required to provide.      The Company holds variable interests
in entities ( Investor Entities ) that invest in community development entities ( CDEs ) that provide debt financing to businesses and non-profit entities in low-income and rural communities. Investments of the consolidated
Investor Entities are also variable interests of the Company. The activities of the Investor Entities are financed with a combination of invested equity capital and debt. The activities of the CDEs are financed solely with invested equity capital.
The Company receives federal and state tax credits for these investments. The Company consolidates the VIEs of which it absorbs the majority of the entities  expected losses or receives a majority of the entities  expected residual
returns. The assets of the entities consolidated by the Company at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 were approximately $189.7 million and $102.1 million, respectively. The assets and liabilities of these consolidated VIEs were
recorded in cash, loans held for investment, interest receivable, other assets and other liabilities. The assets of the entities that the Company held a significant interest in but were not required to consolidate at December 31, 2008 and
December 31, 2007 were approximately $46.6 million and $12.0 million, respectively. The Company records its interests in these unconsolidated VIEs in loans held for investment and other assets. As referenced in the table below, the
Company s maximum exposure to these entities is limited to its variable interests in the entities. The creditors of the VIEs have no recourse to the general credit of the Company. The Company has not provided additional financial or other
support during the period that it was not previously contractually required to provide.         
   139   

Table of Contents  

   Other unconsolidated VIEs consist of a variable interest in a trust that has a royalty interest in certain oil and gas
properties. The activities of the trust are financed solely with debt. The assets of the trust at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 were approximately $538.5 million and zero, respectively. The Company is not required to consolidate
the trust because it does not absorb the majority of the trust s expected losses nor does it receive a majority of the trust s expected residual returns. The Company records its interest in the trust in loans held for investment. As
referenced in the table below, the Company s maximum exposure to the trust is limited to its variable interest. The creditors of the trust have no recourse to the general credit of the Company. The Company has not provided additional financial
or other support during the period that it was not previously contractually required to provide.      The following table presents the carrying amount of
assets and liabilities of those VIEs of which the Company is the primary beneficiary, the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and maximum exposure to loss of those VIEs of which the Company is not the primary beneficiary but holds a
significant variable interest.       

(1)      
    The Company consolidates a VIE when it is the primary beneficiary that will absorb the majority of the expected losses,
majority of the expected residual returns or both.      

(2)      
    The maximum exposure to loss represents the amount of loss the Company would incur in the unlikely event that all of the
assets in the VIEs became worthless.      

(3)      
    The difference between the carrying amount of the liability and the maximum exposure to loss is the Company s
variable interest in the VIEs. In the event that the assets of the VIEs became completely worthless, the Company would lose its variable interest in the VIEs. The Company is not required to provide any support to these entities other than what it
was previously contractually required to provide, therefore the Company s maximum exposure to loss is limited to its variable interests in the VIEs.          Note 21        Regulatory Matters       The Company is subject to capital adequacy guidance adopted by the Federal Reserve Board (the  Federal Reserve ), and CONA and COBNA (collectively, the  Banks ) are subject to capital adequacy
guidelines adopted by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the  OCC , and with the Federal Reserve, collectively, the  regulators ). The capital adequacy guidelines set minimum risk-based and leverage capital
requirements that are based on quantitative and qualitative measures of their assets and off-balance sheet items. The Federal Reserve holds the Corporation to similar minimum capital requirements. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can
result in possible additional, discretionary actions by a federal banking agency that, if undertaken, could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation s consolidated financial statements.      As of December 31, 2008, the Banks each exceeded the minimum regulatory requirements to which it was subject. The Banks all were considered
 well-capitalized  under applicable capital adequacy guidelines. Also as of December 31, 2008, the Corporation was considered  well-capitalized  under Federal Reserve capital standards for bank holding companies and,
therefore, exceeded all minimum capital requirements. There have been no conditions or events since that we believe would have changed the capital category of the Corporation or either of the Banks.         
   140   

Table of Contents  

(1)  
  The regulatory framework for prompt corrective action is not applicable for bank holding companies.     
    COBNA treats a
portion of its loans as  subprime  under the Guidelines issued by the four federal banking agencies that comprise the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council ( FFIEC ), and has assessed its capital and allowance for
loan and lease losses accordingly. Under the Guidelines, COBNA exceeds the minimum capital adequacy guidelines as of December 31, 2008.      For purposes
of the Guidelines, the Corporation has treated as subprime all loans in COBNA s targeted  subprime  programs to customers either with a FICO score of 660 or below or with no FICO score. COBNA holds on average 200% of the total
risk-based capital charge that would otherwise apply to such assets. This results in higher levels of regulatory capital at COBNA.      Additionally,
regulatory restrictions exist that limit the ability of COBNA and CONA to transfer funds to the Corporation. As of December 31, 2008, retained earnings of COBNA and CONA were $239.3 million and zero million, respectively. The retained earnings
of COBNA are available for payment as dividends to the Corporation without prior approval of the OCC while a dividend payment by CONA would require prior approval of the OCC.       Note 22        Significant Concentration of Credit Risk       The Company is active in originating loans in the United States and internationally. International loans are originated primarily in Canada and the United Kingdom. The
Company reviews each potential customer s credit application and evaluates the applicant s financial history and ability and willingness to repay. Loans are made on an unsecured and secured basis. Certain commercial, small business,
mortgage and automobile loans require collateral in various forms including cash deposits, automobiles and real estate, as appropriate. The Company has higher concentrations of loans where the Local Banking segment operates, the South and Northeast
regions of the U.S. In particular, the Company s commercial portfolio is concentrated in the New York metropolitan area. The regional economic conditions in the New York area affect the demand for the Company s commercial products and
services as well as the ability of our customers to repay their commercial loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. The geographic distribution of the Company s loans was as follows:         
   141   

Table of Contents  

Note 23        International Activities       The Company s international activities are primarily performed through Capital One Bank (Europe) plc, a
subsidiary bank of COBNA that provides consumer lending and other financial products in Europe and Capital One Bank Canada Branch, a foreign branch office of COBNA that provides consumer lending products in Canada. The total assets, revenue,
income before income taxes and net income of the international operations are summarized below.       

(1)  
  Revenue is net interest income plus non-interest income.     

(2)  
  Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation.        The Company maintains its books and records on a legal entity basis for the preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP. Because certain international operations are integrated with many of the
Company s domestic operations, estimates and assumptions have been made to assign certain expense items between domestic and foreign operations.         
   142   

Table of Contents  

    Note 24        Related
Party Transactions       In the ordinary course of business, executive officers, directors, and principal shareholders, also known as Regulation O Insiders,
of the Company may have consumer loans issued by the Company. Pursuant to the Company s policy, such loans are issued on the same terms as those prevailing at the time for comparable loans to unrelated persons and do not involve more than the
normal risk of collectibility.       Note 25        Capital One
Financial Corporation (Parent Company Only)        Condensed Financial Information       The following Parent Company Only financial statements are provided in accordance with Regulation S-X of the Securities and Exchange Commission which requires all issuers or guarantors of registered securities to
include separate annual financial statements.       

143   

Table of Contents  

144   

Table of Contents  

    MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING       Management of Capital One Financial Corporation (the  Company ) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting and for the assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. As defined by the SEC, internal control over financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision of the Company s principal
executive officer and principal financial officer, and effected by the company s board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.      The Company s internal control over financial reporting is
supported by written policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the Company s assets; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of the Company s management and directors; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material
effect on the financial statements.      Because of their inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all
misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.      Management of the Company conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2008 based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( the COSO Framework ). Based on this assessment, management
has concluded that the Company s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008.      Our independent registered
public accounting firm, Ernst and Young LLP, has independently assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting. A copy of their report is included in Part 8 of this annual report on Form 10-K.   

/ S / R ICHARD  D. F AIRBANK    

/ S / G ARY  L. P ERLIN     
 
   Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   

Chief Financial Officer    
       
   145   

Table of Contents  

    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM        The Board of Directors and Shareholders        Capital One Financial
Corporation       We have audited Capital One Financial Corporation s internal control over financial reporting based on criteria established in
Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Capital One Financial Corporation s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company s internal control over financial reporting based on our
audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, Capital One Financial Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on the COSO criteria .        We also have audited, in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Capital One Financial Corporation as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income,
stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008 of Capital One Financial Corporation and our report dated February 26, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.   
  /s/ Ernst   Young LLP      McLean,
Virginia      February 26, 2009         
   146   

Table of Contents  

    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM        The Board of Directors and Shareholders        Capital One Financial
Corporation       We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Capital One Financial Corporation as of December 31, 2008 and 2007,
and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the
overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the financial statements
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Capital One Financial Corporation at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.      We also have audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Capital One Financial Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria
established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 26, 2009, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.      /s/ Ernst   Young LLP      McLean, Virginia
     February 26, 2009         
   147   

Table of Contents  

    Selected Quarterly Financial Data  (      1      )            

(1)  
  The above schedule is a tabulation of the Company s unaudited quarterly results for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. The Company s common shares are traded
on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol COF. In addition, shares may be traded in the over-the-counter stock market. There were 17,653 and 18,487 common stockholders of record as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
          
   148   

Table of Contents  

(2)  
  In Q3 2007, the Company shut down the mortgage origination operations of its wholesale mortgage banking unit, GreenPoint Mortgage, realizing an after-tax loss of $898.0 million. The
results of the mortgage origination operation of GreenPoint have been accounted for as a discontinued operation and have been removed from the Company s results of continuing operations for all periods presented.     

(3)  
  Based on continuing operations.     

(4)  
  Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation.           
   149   

Table of Contents  

Item 9.   
      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure            Not applicable.       

Item 9A.   
   Controls and Procedures          

(a)  
   Disclosure Controls and Procedures          As of the end of the period
covered by this report and pursuant to Rule 13a-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ), the Corporation s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, carried out an evaluation
of the effectiveness and design of our disclosure controls and procedures (as that term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act). These disclosure controls and procedures are the responsibility of the Corporation s
management. Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded, as of the end of the period covered by this report, that the Company s disclosure controls and procedures are effective in recording,
processing, summarizing and reporting information required to be disclosed within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission s rules and forms. The Corporation has established a Disclosure Committee consisting of
members of senior management to assist in this evaluation.       

(b)  
   Internal Controls over Financial Reporting          Management s
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting is included in Item 8 and is incorporated by reference herein.       

(c)  
   Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting          As of the
end of the period covered by this report, there have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
        
   150   

Table of Contents  

    PART III        

Item 10.   
      Directors and Executive Officers of the Corporation            The information required by Item 10 will be included in the Corporation s 2009 Proxy Statement (the  Proxy Statement ) under the heading  Information About Our Directors and Executive Officers  and is
incorporated herein by reference. The Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days of the end of the Corporation s 2008 fiscal year.       

Item 11.   
      Executive Compensation             The information
required by Item 11 will be included in the Proxy Statement under the headings  Director Compensation,   Named Executive Officer Compensation  and  Compensation Committee Report,  and is incorporated herein by
reference.       

Item 12.   
      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters            The information required by Item 12 will be included in the Proxy Statement under the headings  Security Ownership  and  Equity Compensation Plan
Information,  and is incorporated herein by reference.       

Item 13.   
      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions            The information required by Item 13 will be included in the Proxy Statement under the heading  Related Person Transactions,  and is incorporated herein by reference.       

Item 14.   
      Principal Accountant Fees and Services            The
information required by Item 14 will be included in the Proxy Statement under the heading  Ratification of Selection of Independent Auditors  and is incorporated by reference herein.         
   151   

Table of Contents  

    PART IV        

Item 15.   
      Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K              

a)  
  (1) The following consolidated financial statements of Capital One Financial Corporation, included in Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , are
incorporated by reference hereto:        Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2008 and 2007      Consolidated Statements of Income Years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006      Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders  Equity Years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting      Report of Registered Public Accounting Firm,
Ernst   Young LLP      Selected Quarterly and Financial Data as of and for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007
     (2) All schedules are omitted since the required information is either not applicable, not deemed material, or is shown in the respective
financial statements or in notes thereto.       

b)  
  Exhibits:        A list of the exhibits to this Form 10-K is set
forth on the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibits and is incorporated herein by reference.      The Corporation makes available to investors, free
of charge, its reports to the SEC pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including its Reports on Forms 8-K, 10-Q and 10-K, through the Company s website at  www.capitalone.com/about/invest/financial/ , as soon as reasonably
practicable after such material is filed with, or furnished to, the SEC electronically.         
   152   

Table of Contents  

    SIGNATURES        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.         

C APITAL  O NE  F INANCIAL  C ORPORATION     

By:  
     
    / S / R ICHARD  D. F AIRBANK     

Richard D. Fairbank       Chairman of the Board,
Chief Executive Officer and President     
 
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by
the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.        

Signature    
      
     Title    
     
     Date     

/ S / R ICHARD  D. F AIRBANK       Richard D. Fairbank    
      
    Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President (Principal Executive Officer)   
     
  February 26, 2009   

/ S / G ARY  L. P ERLIN       Gary L. Perlin    
      
  Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer)  
     
  February 26, 2009   

/ S / E.R. C AMPBELL    
      
  Director  
     
  February 26, 2009   
 
   E.R. Campbell   

/ S / W. R ONALD  D IETZ    
      
  Director  
     
  February 26, 2009   
 
   W. Ronald Dietz   

/ S / P ATRICK  W. G ROSS    
      
  Director  
     
  February 26, 2009   
 
   Patrick W. Gross   

/ S / A NN  F. H ACKETT    
      
  Director  
     
  February 26, 2009   
 
   Ann F. Hackett   

/ S / L EWIS  H AY , III   
      
  Director  
     
  February 26, 2009   
 
   Lewis Hay, III   

/ S / P IERRE  E. L EROY    
      
  Director  
     
  February 26, 2009   
 
   Pierre E. Leroy   

/ S / M AYO  A. S HATTUCK , III   
      
  Director  
     
  February 26, 2009   
 
   Mayo A. Shattuck, III   

/ S / B RADFORD  H. W ARNER    
      
  Director  
     
  February 26, 2009   
 
   Bradford H. Warner   

/ S / S TANLEY  W ESTREICH    
      
  Director  
     
  February 26, 2009   
 
   Stanley Westreich   

153   

Table of Contents  

    EXHIBIT INDEX        CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION        ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K        DATED DECEMBER 31, 2008        Commission
File No. 1-13300       The following exhibits are incorporated by reference or filed herewith. References to (i) the  2000 Form 10-K 
are to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000, filed March 29, 2001; (ii) the  2001 Form 10-K  are to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2001, filed March 22, 2002, as amended on August 14, 2002; (iii) the  2002 Form 10-K  are to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, filed March 17,
2003; (iv) the  2003 Form 10-K  are to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, filed March 5, 2004; (v) the  2004 Form 10-K  are to the Corporation s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, filed March 9, 2005; (vi) the  2005 Form 10-K  are to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, filed March 2,
2006, as amended on April 12, 2006; (vii) the  2006 Form 10-K  are to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, filed March 1, 2007; and (viii) the  2007 Form
10-K  are to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year Ended December 31, 2007, filed February 29, 2008.       
       
   154   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit Number    
     
     Description     

4.2.8   
     
  Specimen of 5.70% Senior Note, due 2011, of Capital One Financial Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Corporation s Report on Form 8-K, filed on September 18,
2006).   

4.2.9   
     
  Specimen of 6.750% Senior Note, due 2017, of Capital One Financial Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Corporation s Report on Form 8-K, filed on September 5,
2007).   

4.3   
     
  Indenture, dated as of June 6, 2006, between Capital One Financial Corporation and The Bank of New York, as indenture trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Corporation s
Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on June 12, 2006).   

4.4.1   
     
  First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 6, 2006, between Capital One Financial Corporation and The Bank of New York, as indenture trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the
Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on June 12, 2006).   

4.4.2   
     
  Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of Capital One Capital II, dated as of June 6, 2006, between Capital One Financial Corporation as Sponsor, The Bank of New York as institutional
trustee, The Bank of New York (Delaware) as Delaware Trustee and the Administrative Trustees named therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on June 12, 2006).   

4.4.3   
     
  Guarantee Agreement, dated as of June 6, 2006, between Capital One Financial Corporation and The Bank of New York, as guarantee trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the
Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on June 12, 2006).   

4.4.4   
     
  Specimen certificate representing the Enhanced TRUPS (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 of the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on June 12,
2006).   

4.4.5   
     
  Specimen certificate representing the Junior Subordinated Debt Security (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 of the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on June 12, 2006).

4.5.1   
     
  Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 1, 2006, between Capital One Financial Corporation and The Bank of New York, as indenture trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of
the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on August 4, 2006).   

4.5.2   
     
  Copy of Junior Subordinated Debt Security Certificate (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 of the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on August 4, 2006.   

4.5.3   
     
  Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of Capital One Capital III, dated as of August 1, 2006, between Capital One Financial Corporation, as Sponsor, The Bank of New York, as institutional
trustee, The Bank of New York (Delaware), as Delaware trustee and the Administrative Trustees named therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on August 4, 2006).   

4.5.4   
     
  Guarantee Agreement, dated as of August 1, 2006, between Capital One Financial Corporation and The Bank of New York, as guarantee trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the
Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on August 4, 2006).   

4.5.5   
     
  Copy of Capital Security Certificate (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 of the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on August 4, 2006)   

4.6.1   
     
  Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 5, 2007, between Capital One Financial Corporation and The Bank of New York, as indenture trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of
the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on February 8, 2007).   

4.6.2   
     
  Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of Capital One Capital IV, dated as of February 5, 2007, between Capital One Financial Corporation as Sponsor, The Bank of New York as institutional
trustee, The Bank of New York (Delaware) as Delaware Trustee and the Administrative Trustees named therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on February 8, 2007).   

4.6.3   
     
  Guarantee Agreement, dated as of February 5, 2007, between Capital One Financial Corporation and The Bank of New York, as guarantee trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the
Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on February 8, 2007).   

4.6.4   
     
  Specimen certificate representing the Capital Security (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 of the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on February 8,
2007).   
       
   155   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit Number    
     
     Description     

4.6.5   
     
  Specimen certificate representing the Capital Efficient Note (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 of the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on February 8,
2007).   

4.7.1   
     
  Indenture, dated as of August 29, 2006, between Capital One Financial Corporation and The Bank of New York, as indenture trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the
Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on August 31, 2006).   

4.7.2   
     
  Copy of Subordinated Note Certificate (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on August 31, 2006).   

10.1   
     
  2002 Associate Stock Purchase Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Corporation s Form S-8 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 10,
2002).   

10.2.1   
     
  Capital One Financial Corporation, 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated herein by reference to the Corporation s Registration Statement on Form S-8, Commission File No. 333-117920, filed
August 4, 2004).   

10.2.2   
     
  Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 3, 2006).   

10.2.3   
     
  Capital One Financial Corporation, 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (incorporated herein by reference to the Corporation s Registration Statement on Form S-8, Commission
File No. 333-136281, filed August 3, 2006).   

10.2.4   
     
  Form of Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreement between Capital One Financial Corporation and Richard D. Fairbank pursuant to the Company s 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 99.1 of the Corporation s Report on Form 8-K, filed on December 23, 2005).   

10.2.5   
     
  Form of Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreement between Capital One Financial Corporation and Richard D. Fairbank pursuant to the Company s 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 99.1 of the Corporation s Report on Form 8-K, filed December 23, 2004).   

10.2.6   
     
  Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement between Capital One Financial Corporation and certain of its executives or associates pursuant to the Company s 2004 Stock Incentive Plan
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20.2 of the 2004 Form 10-K).   

10.2.7   
     
  Form of Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreement between Capital One Financial Corporation and certain of its executives pursuant to the Company s 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.20.3 of the 2004 Form 10-K).   

10.2.8   
     
  Form of Performance Unit Award Agreement between Capital One Financial Corporation and its executive officers, including Mr. Gary L. Perlin and Mr. John G. Finneran, Jr., pursuant to the
Company s 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2.8 of the 2007 Form 10-K).   

10.3   
     
  Capital One Financial Corporation 1999 Non-Employee Directors Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the 2002 Form 10-K).   

10.4   
     
  Form of 1999 Non-Employee Directors Stock Incentive Plan Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreement between Capital One Financial Corporation and certain of its Directors (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.2 of the Corporation s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ending September 30, 2004).   

10.5   
     
  Form of 1999 Non-Employee Directors Stock Incentive Plan Deferred Share Units Award Agreement between Capital One Financial Corporation and certain of its Directors. (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.3 of the Corporation s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ending September 30, 2004).   

10.6   
     
  Capital One Financial Corporation 1999 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 of the Corporation s Registration Statement on Form S-8, Commission File No. 333-78609,
filed May 17, 1999).   

10.7   
     
  Capital One Financial Corporation 1994 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of the 2002 Form 10-K).   

10.8   
     
  Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement, dated May 17, 2004, by and between Capital One Financial Corporation and Richard D. Fairbank. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10.1 of the
Corporation s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ending September 30, 2004).   
       
   156   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit Number    
     
     Description     

10.9   
     
  Services Agreement, dated November 8, 2004, between Capital One Financial Corporation, acting through its subsidiary Capital One Services, Inc. and First Data Corporation, acting through
its subsidiary, First Data Resources, Inc. (confidential treatment requested for portions of this agreement incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Corporation s Report on Form 8-K, filed on September 15, 2005).   

10.10   
     
  Processing Services Agreement, dated August 5, 2005, between Capital One Financial Corporation, acting through its subsidiary Capital One Services, Inc. and Total System Services, Inc.
(confidential treatment requested for portions of this agreement, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Corporation s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ending September 30, 2005).   

10.11   
     
  Form of Amended and Restated Change of Control Employment Agreement between Capital One Financial Corporation and certain of its senior executives (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 of
the 2002 Form 10-K).   

10.12   
     
  Capital One Financial Corporation Excess Savings Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 of the 2002 Form 10-K).   

10.13   
     
  Capital One Financial Corporation Excess Benefit Cash Balance Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 of the 2002 Form 10-K).   

10.14   
     
  Capital One Financial Corporation 1994 Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 of the 2002 Form 10-K).   

10.15   
     
  Capital One Financial Corporation, Voluntary Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan, dated May 28, 2004 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Form 10-Q for the
period ending June 30, 2004).   

10.16   
     
  1995 Non-Employee Directors Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to the Corporation s Registration Statement on Form S-8, Commission File No. 33-91790, filed May 1,
1995).   

10.17   
     
  Consulting Agreement dated as of April 5, 1995, by and between Capital One Financial Corporation and American Management Systems, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 of the 2002
Form 10-K).   

10.18   
     
  Form of Intellectual Property Protection Agreement dated as of April 29,1999 by and among Capital One Financial Corporation and certain of its senior executives (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.20 of the 1999 Form 10-K/A).   

10.19   
     
  2002 Non-Executive Officer Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated herein by reference to the Corporation s Registration Statement on Form S-8, Commission File No. 333-97123, filed July 25,
2002).   

10.20   
     
  Capital One Financial Corporation, 2005 Directors Compensation Plan Summary (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 of the Corporation s Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 4,
2005).   

10.21   
     
  Form of Change of Control Employment Agreement between Capital One Financial Corporation and each of its named executive officers, including the chief executive officer, Richard Fairbank
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Corporation s Report on Form 8-K, filed on October 30, 2007).   

10.22   
     
  First Quarter 2006 Amendment to Processing Services Agreement, dated May 19, 2006, between Capital One Financial Corporation, acting through its subsidiary Capital One Services, Inc. and Total
System Services, Inc. (confidential treatment requested for portions of this agreement) (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.22 of the 2007 Form 10-K).   

10.23   
     
  Amendments to Processing Services Agreement, effective October 31 2008, between the Company and Total System Services, Inc. (confidential treatment requested for portions of these amendments)
(incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Form 10-Q for the period ending September 30, 2008).   

12*   
     
  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges.   

14   
     
  Capital One Financial Corporation Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 of the Corporation s Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 4,
2005).   

21*   
     
  Subsidiaries of the Company.   

23*   
     
  Consent of Ernst   Young LLP.   

31.1*   
     
  Certification of Richard D. Fairbank   

31.2*   
     
  Certification of Gary L. Perlin   
       
   157   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit Number    
     
     Description     

32.1*   
     
  Certification** of Richard D. Fairbank   

32.2*   
     
  Certification** of Gary L. Perlin   

*  
  Indicates a document being filed with this Form 10-K.     

**  
  Information in this 10-K furnished herewith shall not be deemed to be  filed  for the purposes of Section 18 of the 1934 Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities
of that section.           
   158   

<EX-2.4>
 2
 dex24.htm
 EXHIBIT 2.4

Exhibit 2.4 

Exhibit 2.4         Execution Version         STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT        BY AND AMONG        CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL
CORPORATION,        B.F. SAUL REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUST,        DERWOOD INVESTMENT CORPORATION,        AND        B.F. SAUL COMPANY EMPLOYEES  PROFIT SHARING AND RETIREMENT        TRUST        DATED AS OF DECEMBER 3, 2008    

TABLE OF CONTENTS        

i   

TABLE OF CONTENTS       (continued)       
       
   ii   

TABLE OF CONTENTS       (continued)       
       
   iii   

TABLE OF CONTENTS       (continued)       
       
   iv   

TABLE OF CONTENTS       (continued)       

Annex A   
      
  Earn-out Term Sheet   

Exhibit A   
      
  Stockholder Support Agreement   

Exhibit B   
      
  Headquarters Branch Lease Term Sheet   

Exhibit C   
      
  D.C. Branch Lease Term Sheet   

Exhibit D   
      
  Headquarters Loan Term Sheet   
       
   v   

STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT       This STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT, dated as of December 3, 2008 (this   Agreement  ), is by and among B.F. Saul Real Estate Investment
Trust, a Maryland real estate investment trust (  B.F. Saul REIT  ), Derwood Investment Corporation, a Maryland corporation ( Derwood ), and the B.F. Saul Company Employees  Profit Sharing and Retirement Trust (the
  PSRT   and, together with B.F. Saul REIT and Derwood, the   Sellers  ), and Capital One Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the   Purchaser  ). Capitalized terms used herein have the meaning
specified in  Article I  of this Agreement.       WITNESSETH:       WHEREAS, the Sellers collectively own all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock (the   Purchased Bank Common Shares  ) of
Chevy Chase Bank, F.S.B., a federally chartered savings bank (the   Bank   and      WHEREAS, the Sellers desire to sell, and
the Purchaser desires to purchase, the Purchased Bank Common Shares in return for cash and shares of the Purchaser s common stock.      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the representations, warranties, covenants and agreements contained in this Agreement, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the Purchaser and the Sellers hereby agree as follows:      ARTICLE I      DEFINITIONS      When used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the respective meanings set forth below:        2003 Indenture   shall mean the Indenture, dated as of December 2, 2003, by and between the Bank and Wells Fargo Minnesota,
National Association, as trustee, in respect of the Bank Debentures.        2004 Indenture   shall mean the Indenture, dated as
of February 25, 2004, by and between B.F. Saul REIT and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee, in respect of the B.F. Saul REIT Notes.        280G Consent   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 7.16 .        7501 LLC Membership Interests   shall mean the membership interests of 7501 Wisconsin Ave L.L.C. owned by the Bank.        Adjusted Tangible Common Equity   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 2.3(a) .        Advances   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 4.17(a) .        Advice   shall have
the meaning set forth in  Section 8.5 .   

Affiliate   shall mean, with respect to any specified Person, any other Person which,
directly or indirectly, controls, is under common control with, or is controlled by, such specified Person. For purposes of this definition, the terms controls, under common control and controlled by mean the possession, direct or indirect, of the
power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.        Agreement   shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.        Alternative
Arrangements   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 11.5(a) .        ASB Capital   shall mean ASB
Capital Management LLC, a limited liability company organized under the laws of the state of Maryland.        ASB Capital Distribution
Date   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 7.11(a) .        ASB Capital Membership Interests   shall
mean 100% of the outstanding membership interests of ASB Capital.        ASB Capital Note   shall have the meaning set forth in
 Section 7.11(a) .        ASB Capital Required Consents   shall mean, collectively, the consents and approvals from
Governmental Authorities, clients and other third parties that are necessary for the Bank to distribute, and for Derwood to own and operate ASB Capital and set forth in  Section 1.1(a)  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule.        Asset Management Businesses   shall mean Chevy Chase Trust and/or ASB Capital.        Audited Financial Statements   shall have the meaning set forth under  Section 2.3(a) .        Automatic Shelf Registration Statement   shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the Securities Act.        Bank   shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals.        Bank Common Stock   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 4.2(a) .        Bank Contract   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 4.12(a) .        Bank Debentures   shall mean the 6   7/8   % Subordinated Debentures due 2013 issued by the Bank pursuant
to the 2003 Indenture in the aggregate principal amount of $175,000,000.        Bank Deferred Compensation Plans   shall have
the meaning set forth in  Section 7.3(a) .        Bank Disclosure Schedule   shall have the meaning set forth in the
introduction to  Article IV .        Bank Employees   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 4.10(a) .
        
   2   

Bank Preferred Stock   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 4.2(a) .
       Bank Reports   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 4.4(c).         Bankruptcy and Equity Exception   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 3.1(a) .        Basket   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 11  .4(a).         B.F. Saul Personal Property   shall mean the artwork, furniture and other personal property with an aggregate value not exceeding
$3,000,000 set forth in  Section 1.2  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule.        B.F. Saul REIT   shall have the meaning
set forth in the Preamble.        B.F. Saul REIT Notes   shall mean,
collectively, the outstanding 7   1/2   % Senior Secured Notes due 2014 issued by B.F. Saul REIT pursuant to the 2004 Indenture in the aggregate principal
amount of $250,000,000.        BFSMC   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 7.17 .        BHC Act   shall mean the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended.        Bondy Way Shares   shall mean shares of common stock of Bondy Way Development Corporation owned by Chevy Chase Real Estate.   
    Business Day   shall mean any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which banking institutions in the State of New York
are authorized or required by law, or other action of a Governmental Authority, to close.        Cap   shall have the meaning
set forth in  Section 11.4(b) .        Cash Consideration   shall have the meaning set forth in
 Section 2.2 .        Chevy Chase Real Estate   shall mean Chevy Chase Real Estate LLC, a limited liability company
organized under the laws of the state of Virginia.        Chevy Chase Trust   shall mean Chevy Chase Trust Company, a
corporation organized under the laws of the state of Maryland and operating under a grant of fiduciary authority from the OTS.        Chevy Chase Trust Distribution Date   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 7.10(a)         Chevy
Chase Trust Note   shall have the meaning set forth in the  Section 7.10(a) .        Chevy Chase Trust Required
Consents   shall mean, collectively, the consents and approvals from Governmental Authorities, clients and other third parties that are necessary for the Bank to distribute, and for Derwood to own and operate Chevy Chase Trust and set forth
in  Section 1.1(b)  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule.         
   3   

Chevy Chase Trust Shares   shall mean 100% of the outstanding shares of common stock of
Chevy Chase Trust, which are owned by the Bank as of the date hereof.        CIC Share Amount   shall mean the product of
(a) 0.50, and (b) the costs (including the cost of any gross-up payments and loss of deduction by reason of Section 280G of the Code), when incurred, in excess of $35 million in the aggregate attributable to any change-in-control
agreement to which Bank Employees are a party.        Closing   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 2.8 .  
        Closing Date   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 2.8 .        Code   shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.        Competing Business   shall mean a business (a) of the type historically and currently conducted by the Bank and its Subsidiaries
(other than the Asset Management Businesses as currently conducted and any logical extensions or enhancements of such asset management services), or the business activities of which include (i) taking deposits and making loans and providing
other commercial or retail banking services of the type generally provided by an FDIC-insured bank, thrift or other deposit-taking financial institution, (ii) mortgage banking or brokerage or (iii) securities brokerage or insurance
products (other than insurance products as currently provided by the B.F. Saul Insurance Company and any logical extensions or enhancements of such insurance services) and (b) that operates or provides such services or products in Maryland,
Virginia or the District of Columbia.        Confidentiality Agreement   shall have the meaning set forth in
 Section 7.2(c) .        Consideration   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 2.2 .        Constituent Documents   shall mean the charter or articles or certificate of incorporation and by-laws of a corporation or banking
organization, the certificate of partnership and partnership agreement of a general or limited partnership, the certificate of formation and limited liability company agreement of a limited liability company, the trust agreement of a trust and the
comparable documents of other entities.        Contract   shall mean any written or oral contract, lease, agreement, commitment,
indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, note, evidence of indebtedness, bond, instrument or binding commitment.        Controlled Group
Liability   shall mean any and all liabilities (i) under Title IV of ERISA, (ii) under Section 302 of ERISA, (iii) under Sections 412 and 4971 of the Code, (iv) as a result of a failure to comply with the
continuation coverage requirements of Section 601 et seq. of ERISA and Section 4980B of the Code, and (v) under corresponding or similar provisions of foreign laws or regulations.        Conveyance and Assumption Instruments   shall mean, collectively, such deeds, bills of sale, asset transfer agreements, endorsements,
assignments, assumptions (including liability assumption agreements), leases, subleases, affidavits and other instruments of sale, conveyance,  
       
   4   

contribution, distribution, lease, transfer and assignment between a Seller or, where applicable, any Subsidiary of a Seller, on the one hand, and the
Purchaser or, where applicable, any Subsidiary or designee of the Purchaser, on the other hand, as may be necessary or advisable under the laws of the relevant jurisdictions to effect the transactions contemplated hereunder.        CRA   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 4.19 .        Current Balance Sheet   shall mean the unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet for the Bank and its Subsidiaries included in the
Pro Forma Financial Statements.        Current Tangible Common Equity   shall mean the Tangible Common Equity amount set forth
on the Current Balance Sheet of $515.6 million.        D O Indemnified Parties   shall have the meaning set forth in
 Section 7.4(a) .        D O Indemnifying Party   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 7.4(a) .
       D.C. Branch Property   shall mean all of the Bank s and its Subsidiaries  rights, title and interest in and to:
     (a) the real property located at 925 15   th    Street N.W., Washington D.C., and more particularly described in  Section 1.3  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule, and all buildings and other
improvements now or hereafter located, erected or constructed upon such real property (collectively, the   D.C. Branch Premises  ),      (b) all easements, rights of way, privileges, appurtenances and other rights and benefits pertaining to the D.C. Branch Premises, all fixtures, machinery, equipment and other articles of personal property attached or
appurtenant thereto, or used in connection therewith except trade fixtures owned by the Bank and necessary for the continued operation of the D.C. Branch Premises as a branch leased by the Bank following the Closing;      (c) any service, union, management, maintenance and other contracts and agreements affecting any portion of the D.C. Branch Premises;
     (d) to the extent the same are assignable, all consents, authorizations, variances, waivers, licenses, permits and
approvals from any Governmental Authority in respect of the D.C. Branch Premises, including but not limited to those with respect to use, utilities, building, fire, zoning or other use approvals heretofore held by or granted to the Bank or its
Subsidiaries and all approvals hereafter sought or granted; and      (e) to the extent the same are assignable, all warranties
and guaranties, if any, with respect to the D.C. Branch Premises, including but not limited to construction guaranties or manufacturers  warranties.        Derivative Transaction   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 4.21(b).           Derwood   shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.         
   5   

Dividend Conveyance and Assumption Instruments   shall mean, collectively, the deeds,
bills of sale, asset transfer agreements, endorsements, assignments, assumptions (including liability assumption agreements), leases, subleases, affidavits and other instruments of sale, conveyance, contribution, distribution, lease, transfer and
assignment between the Bank, on the one hand, and a Seller or designee of such Seller, on the other hand, that are necessary under the laws of the relevant jurisdictions to effect the distributions contemplated by  Section 7.9 .
       Earn-Out Rights   shall mean the rights to receive the contingent payments having the terms set forth on  Annex A 
hereto.        Effective Date   shall mean the date that the Registration Statement is first declared effective by the SEC.
       Effectiveness Period   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 8.1(b) .        End Date   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 10.1(c).         Environmental Laws   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 4.15(a) .        ERISA   shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.        ERISA Affiliate   shall mean, with respect to any entity, trade or business, any other entity, trade or business that is, or was at the
relevant time, a member of a group described in Section 414(b), (c), (m) or (o) of the Code or Section 4001(b)(1) of ERISA that includes or included the first entity, trade or business, or that is, or was at the relevant time, a
member of the same  controlled group  as the first entity, trade or business pursuant to Section 4001(a)(14) of ERISA.        Event   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 8.1(c) .        Event Payments   shall
have the meaning set forth in  Section 8.1(c) .        Event Payment Date   shall have the meaning set forth in
 Section 8.1(c) .        Exchange Act   shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.        Excluded Assets   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section  2. 7.         Expenses   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 11.3(a) .        Fannie Mae   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 4.17(d) .        FDIC   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 4.1(c) .        FHLB   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 4.1(c) .        Freddie Mac   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 4.17(d) .         
   6   

GAAP   shall mean generally accepted accounting principles as in effect in the United
States from time to time.        Governmental Authority   shall mean any U.S., state, local or foreign governmental, regulatory
or administrative body, agency or authority, any court or judicial authority or arbitration tribunal, whether national, Federal, state, local or otherwise, or any Person lawfully empowered by any of the foregoing to enforce or seek compliance with
any applicable law, statute, regulation, order or decree.        Hazardous Substances   shall have the meaning set forth in
 Section 4.15(a) .        Headquarters   shall mean all of the Bank s rights, title and interest in and to
(a) the building located at 7501 Wisconsin Avenue, Bethesda, Maryland, all fixtures and personal property contained therein and (b) the lease under which the real property associated with the Headquarters is leased to the Bank by 7501
Wisconsin Ave LLC.        Headquarters Loan   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 7.15 .        HUD   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 4.17(d).         Indemnified Liabilities   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 7.4(a) .        Indemnified Party   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 8.4(c) .        Indemnifying Party   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 8.4(c) .        Indemnification Claim   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 11.3(a) .        Injunction   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 9.1(a) .        Investment Company Act   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 5.15(b) .        Law   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 3.1(b).         Liens   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 4.2(b) .        Loans   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 4.17(a) .        Losses   shall mean any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities, obligations, costs and expenses (including, without limitation, as
a result of any notices, actions, suits, proceedings, claims, demands, assessments, judgments, awards, penalties, costs, penalties and reasonable and out-of-pocket expenses, including reasonable attorneys  and other professionals  fees and
disbursements).        Material Adverse Effect   shall mean, with respect to any Person, any fact, circumstance, event, change,
effect or occurrence that, individually or in the aggregate with all other facts, circumstances, events, changes, effects, or occurrences, (x) has a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations or financial condition of such
Person and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole or (y) prevents or materially impairs such Person s ability to perform its obligations  
       
   7   

hereunder or to consummate the transactions contemplated hereunder on a timely basis;  provided ,  however , that in determining whether a Material
Adverse Effect has occurred pursuant to  clause (x)  above, there shall be excluded any effect to the extent resulting from (i) changes after the date of this Agreement in laws, rules or regulations of general applicability or
published interpretations thereof by a Governmental Authority or in GAAP or regulatory accounting requirements, in any such case applicable to banks or thrifts or their holding companies generally, (ii) the announcement of this Agreement or of
any action of any party to this Agreement or any of its Subsidiaries required to be taken by it under this Agreement, (iii) changes in global, national or regional political conditions or general economic or market conditions (including changes
in credit availability and liquidity, prevailing interest rates, currency exchange rates, and price levels or trading volumes in the United States or foreign securities markets) affecting U.S. banking organizations generally, (iv) actions or
omissions of a party to this Agreement required by this Agreement or taken with the prior written consent of the other party to this Agreement in contemplation of the transactions contemplated hereby, (v) to the extent consistent with GAAP, any
modifications or changes to valuation policies or practices, or restructuring charges, in each case taken with the prior approval of the Sellers or the Purchaser, as the case may be, in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby,
(vi) the engagement by the United States in hostilities, whether or not pursuant to the declaration of a national emergency or war, or the occurrence of any military or terrorist attack upon or within the United States, (vii) changes in
the market values (including mark-to-market accounting adjustments) or increases in reserves or adjustments consistent with GAAP in respect of any securities, instruments, loan portfolios or financial assets held by such Person and its Subsidiaries,
and (viii) changes in the credit markets, any downgrades in the credit markets, or adverse credit events resulting in the deterioration in the credit markets generally or in respect of the customers of such Person and its Subsidiaries, except,
with respect to clauses (i) and (iii), to the extent that the effects of such change are disproportionately adverse to the business, results of operations or financial condition of such Person and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, as compared
to other banks or thrifts or their holding companies.        Material Subsidiary   shall mean, with respect to a Person, any
Subsidiary of such Person;  provided  that the Subsidiaries of the Bank set forth in  Section 1.4  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule shall not be considered Material Subsidiaries of the Bank or any Seller for purpose of this Agreement.
       Materially Burdensome Regulatory Condition   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 7.1(a).    
    MTM Option ARMS   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 7.8(b).         NetJets Agreements   shall mean (i) the Purchase Agreement, dated as of September 6, 2004, between NetJets Sales, Inc. and
Chevy Chase Real Estate, as amended, and each other agreement related thereto and (ii) the Purchase Agreement, dated as of September 7, 2004, between NJI Sales, Inc. and Chevy Chase Real Estate, as amended, and each other agreement related
thereto.        Non-Bank Benefit Plan   shall mean any Plan that is not solely maintained by the Bank or any of its
Subsidiaries, including, without limitation, the B.F. Saul Company Employees  Profit Sharing Retirement Plan, the B.F. Saul Company Employees  401(k) Plan, and the B.F. Saul Company Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan.   
     
   8   

OCC   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 5.5(a) .        OTS   shall mean the Office of Thrift Supervision, or a successor entity.        PCAP Preferred Stock   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 4.2(a) .        Person   shall mean any individual, corporation, proprietorship, firm, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company,
trust, association, Governmental Authority or other entity.        Plans   shall have the meaning set forth in
 Section 4.10(a) .        Pool   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 4.17(g) .        Pre-Closing Tax Periods   shall mean any Tax period (or portion thereof) ending on or before the close of business on the Closing Date.
       Pro Forma Financial Statements   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 4.5(b) .        Pro Rata Share   with respect to any Seller, shall mean the percentage obtained by dividing (x) the number of shares of Bank Common
Stock held by such Seller immediately prior to the Closing by (y) the number of shares of Bank Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Closing and multiplying the resulting quotient by one hundred (100).        Proceeding   shall mean an action, claim, suit, investigation or proceeding (including, without limitation, an investigation or partial
proceeding, such as a deposition), whether commenced, threatened, brought, conducted or heard by or before, or otherwise involving, any Governmental Authority or arbitrator.        Property Taxes   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 7.8(g) .        Proprietary Rights   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 4.16 .        Prospectus   shall mean the prospectus included in the Registration Statement (including, without limitation, a prospectus that includes
any information previously omitted from a prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement in reliance upon Rule 430A or Rule 430B, as applicable, promulgated under the Securities Act), as amended or supplemented by any prospectus
supplement, with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Registrable Securities covered by the Registration Statement, and all other amendments and supplements to the Prospectus, including post effective amendments and all
material incorporated by reference or deemed to be incorporated by reference in such Prospectus.        PSRT   shall have the
meaning set forth in the Preamble.        Purchased Bank Common Shares   shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals.
       Purchaser   shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.         
   9   

Purchaser Common Shares   shall mean shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share,
of Purchaser.        Purchaser Disclosure Schedule   shall have the meaning set forth in the introduction to  Article V .
       Purchaser Indemnified Parties   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 11.2(a) .        Purchaser Plans   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 7.3(a) .        Purchaser Preferred Shares   shall mean shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share.        Purchaser Regulatory Agreement   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 5.5(b) .        Purchaser Reports   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 5.5(c) .        Registrable Securities   shall mean any Purchaser Common Shares issued or issuable pursuant to this Agreement, together with any
securities issued or issuable directly or indirectly with respect to or in exchange, or substitution for, or conversion of the Purchaser Common Shares issued or issuable pursuant to this Agreement by way of any stock split, dividend or other
distribution, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, exchange, reorganization or similar event with respect to the foregoing. As to any particular Registrable Securities, such securities shall cease to be Registrable Securities when they have been
distributed to the public pursuant to an offering registered under the Securities Act or sold to the public in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act.        Registration Statement   shall mean each registration statement required to be filed under  Article VIII , including (in each case) the Prospectus, amendments and supplements to such registration
statement or Prospectus, including pre- and post-effective amendments, all exhibits thereto, and all material incorporated by reference or deemed to be incorporated by reference in such registration statement.        Regulatory Agreement   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 4.4(b) .        Requisite Regulatory Approvals   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 9.2(d) .        Relevant Date   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 8.1(a) .        Sarbanes-Oxley Act   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 4.5(d) .        Scheduled Black-out Period   means the period from and including the fifteenth calendar day preceding the last day of a fiscal quarter
of the Purchaser to and ending at the start of the third Business Day after the day on which the Purchaser publicly releases its earnings for such fiscal quarter.        SEC   shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.         
   10   

Securities Act   shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.        Seller Counsel   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 8.2(a) .        Seller Indemnified Parties   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 11.2(b).         Sellers   shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.        Series C Preferred Stock   shall mean the 8% Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C, of the Bank.        Short Tax Period   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 7.8(b) .        Stock Consideration   shall mean 2,560,601 Purchaser Common Shares.        Straddle Period   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 7.8(g) .        Subsidiary   shall mean, with respect to any Person, any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or any other
entity (i) of which such Person or a subsidiary of such Person is a general partner or managing member or (ii) at least a majority of the securities or other interests of which, having by their terms ordinary voting power to elect a
majority of the board of directors or Persons performing similar functions with respect to such entity, is directly or indirectly owned by such Person and/or one or more subsidiaries thereof.        Surviving Related Party Agreements   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 6.6(a) .        Takeover Laws   shall mean the requirements of any  moratorium,   control share,   fair price, 
 affiliate transaction,   business combination  or other antitakeover laws and regulations of any state.        Takeover Provisions   shall mean, with respect to any party to this Agreement, the requirements of any articles, sections or provisions of its Constituent Documents concerning  business combination,   fair
price,   voting requirement,   constituency requirement  or other related provisions.        Tangible Common
Equity   shall mean the consolidated assets less the consolidated liabilities of the Bank and its Subsidiaries, after giving effect to the carve out of the Excluded Assets as provided for in this Agreement, as determined in accordance with
GAAP and on a basis consistent with the preparation of the Current Balance Sheet,  provided  that there will be excluded therefrom (a) goodwill, (b) any intangible assets, (c) preferred stock (at its liquidation preference),
(d) any change between the Current Balance Sheet and the Audited Financial Statements in deferred tax assets or liabilities, (e) any change between the Current Balance Sheet and the Audited Financial Statements in reserves, accruals or
mark-to-market or other adjustments in relation to the loan or securities portfolio of the Bank and its Subsidiaries, (f) purchase accounting adjustments arising as a result of or in connection with the Agreement and the Closing hereunder and
the transactions contemplated hereby, and (g) payments, transaction fees and expenses, reserves, accruals, adjustments, transactions or circumstances arising as a result or in connection with this Agreement and the Closing hereunder and the
transactions  
       
   11   

contemplated hereby, including without limitation in connection with the Bank Deferred Compensation Plans, Transfer Taxes, the Tax Sharing Agreement, bonuses
paid to Bank Employees with respect to the 2008 fiscal year and any change-in-control or similar agreements.        Tapes  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 4.1 7( j).         Tax Authority   shall mean any United States federal,
state or local or any foreign governmental, regulatory or administrative authority, agency or commission exercising Tax regulatory authority.        Tax Claim   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 7.8(d) .        Tax Return   shall
mean any report, return, document, declaration, payee statement or other information or filing required to be supplied to any Tax Authority or any Person with respect to Taxes.        Tax Sharing Agreement   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 6.5 .        Taxes   shall mean any income, profits, franchise, gross receipts, capital, capital gain, sales, use, transfer, property, value-added,
employment, license, lease, service, transportation, withholding, payroll, severance, environmental, customs, excise, alternative minimum or other governmental tax or assessment of any kind whatsoever (including interest and penalties thereon and
additions thereto) imposed by any Tax Authority.        Terminated Related Party Agreements   shall have the meaning set forth
in  Section 6.5(b) .        Third Party Claim   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 11.3(a) .
       Trading Day   shall mean any day on which the Purchaser Common Shares are listed or quoted and traded on the Trading
Market.        Trading Market   shall mean the New York Stock Exchange.        Transfer Taxes   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 7.8(f) .        Treasury Regulations   shall mean the income tax regulations, including any temporary or proposed regulations, promulgated under the
Code, as such regulations may be amended from time to time.        Utilized Mark-to-Market Loss   shall have the meaning set
forth in  Section 7.8(c) .        VA   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 4.17(d) .        Visa Shares   shall mean the shares of Class B common stock of Visa Inc., a Delaware corporation, owned by the Bank as of the date
hereof.         
   12   

ARTICLE II      SALE OF SHARES AND CLOSING      2.1.  Purchase and Sale . Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set
forth in this Agreement, at the Closing each Seller agrees to sell, assign, transfer, convey and deliver to the Purchaser, and the Purchaser agrees to purchase from such Seller, all of the right, title and interest of such Seller in and to the
number of Purchased Bank Common Shares set forth opposite such Seller s name in  Section 2.1  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule.      2.2.  Consideration . In consideration for the Purchased Bank Common Shares, at the Closing, the Purchaser shall pay and deliver to each Seller, such Seller s Pro Rata Share of (i) $445,000,000 (the   Cash
Consideration  ) and (ii) the Stock Consideration, in each case, (the Stock Consideration together with the Cash Consideration, the   Consideration  ), as set forth in  Section 2.2  of the Bank Disclosure
Schedule;  provided  that the Consideration is subject to adjustment pursuant to  Section 2.3 .      2.3.  Adjustments to
Purchase Price .      (a) As promptly as practicable following the date hereof, and in any event at least 10 Business Days
prior to Closing, Sellers shall cause the Bank to deliver to Purchaser audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008, (the   Audited Financial Statements  ) which financial statements shall be
accompanied by (i) an unqualified opinion of Ernst   Young LLP (or another independent registered accounting firm reasonably acceptable to Purchaser) regarding such consolidated financial statements, and (ii) a certificate from an
executive officer of each Seller (A) affirming the compliance of such financial statements with the representations set forth under  Section 4.5  hereof, (B) setting forth the Tangible Common Equity derived from the Audited
Financial Statements (such amount as so calculated, the   Adjusted Tangible Common Equity  ) and (C) certifying that the Adjusted Tangible Common Equity is derived from the Audited Financial Statements. Such determination of the
Adjusted Tangible Common Equity will be final, binding, conclusive and non-appealable for purposes of this Agreement, absent error in so deriving the Adjusted Tangible Common Equity.      (b) At the Closing, Purchaser shall pay to each Seller such Seller s Pro Rata Share of the aggregate Consideration (i) reduced,
on a dollar for dollar basis, for every dollar that the Adjusted Tangible Common Equity is less than the Current Tangible Common Equity or (ii) increased, on a dollar for dollar basis in cash, for every dollar that the Adjusted Tangible Common
Equity is greater than the Current Tangible Common Equity.      2.4.  Earn-out . As additional consideration in respect of the Purchased
Shares, each Seller shall be entitled to its Pro Rata Share of the Earn-out Rights.      2.5.  Certain Matters relating to the B.F. Saul REIT
Notes .      (a) As of the Closing and in accordance with Section 401(1 )(b)(iii) of the 2004 Indenture, B.F. Saul REIT
shall have irrevocably deposited an amount sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on the B.F. Saul REIT Notes into a trust account with the Trustee (as defined in the 2004 Indenture) and B.F. Saul REIT shall have fulfilled all other

13   

conditions contained in Section 401 of the 2004 Indenture in order to effect a satisfaction and discharge of the 2004 Indenture, thereby terminating the
security interest B.F. Saul REIT granted under the 2004 Indenture in all its right, title and interest in and to the Purchased Bank Common Shares.      (b) As of the Closing, the Purchaser shall pay and deliver to B.F. Saul REIT, or the escrow account designated by B.F. Saul REIT, an aggregate dollar amount equal to the aggregate dollar amount payable by B.F. Saul
REIT, including any prepayment and other premiums, penalties, fees and costs associated therewith, in order to effect the provisions of  Section 2.5(a) . Any such payment by the Purchaser shall be credited against (and shall not in any
event exceed) the amounts otherwise payable by the Purchaser to B.F. Saul REIT pursuant to  Section 2.2 .      (c)
B.F. Saul REIT, the other Sellers and the Purchaser will use their reasonable best efforts to take, or cause to be taken, in good faith, all actions, and to do, or cause to be done, all things necessary, proper or desirable, or advisable under
applicable Laws, so as to effect the intent of  Sections 2.5(a)  and  2.5(b)  as promptly as practicable, including, without limitation, participating in any escrow arrangement necessary to defease, pay off or otherwise discharge the B.F.
Saul REIT Notes, and each will cooperate fully with, and furnish information to, the other party to that end. For the avoidance of doubt, Purchaser shall not be required to expend any funds in connection with the actions contemplated by this
 Section 2.5(c) .      (d) Sellers shall call the B.F. Saul REIT Notes for redemption on or after the Closing Date
pursuant to the terms thereof and of Section 401(1)(b)(iii) and Article 11 of the 2004 Indenture and make all necessary provisions with the trustee under the 2004 Indenture for the satisfaction of the requirements of
 Section 2.5(a)  of this Agreement and of Section 401(1)(b)(iii) of the 2004 Indenture, including the determination of the applicable amount of funds.      2.6.  Bank Preferred Stock and Debentures .      (a) The shares of Series C Preferred Stock
issued and outstanding immediately prior to the date of this Agreement will remain outstanding through the Closing Date. From the date hereof until the Closing, the Bank will comply with the terms governing the Series C Preferred Stock set forth in
the Bank s charter.      (b) The Bank Debentures issued and outstanding immediately prior to the date of this Agreement
will remain outstanding through the Closing Date. From the date hereof until the Closing, the Bank will comply with the terms governing the Bank Debentures set forth in the 2003 Indenture.      (c) Following the Closing, the Purchaser will take all actions that are necessary or reasonably appropriate to comply with the terms
governing the Series C Preferred Stock set forth in the Bank s charter and the terms governing the Bank Debentures set forth in the 2003 Indenture.         
   14   

2.7.  Excluded Assets . Subject to  Sections 7.10, 7.11  and  7.18 , the Purchaser shall
not acquire, and the Bank and its Subsidiaries shall not retain, any right, title or interest to or in the Asset Management Businesses, the Headquarters, the D.C. Branch Property, the Bondy Way Shares, the Visa Shares, the B.F. Saul Personal
Property, the NetJets Agreements (collectively, the   Excluded Assets  ), which will be distributed to the Sellers or otherwise transferred and assigned as provided in  Sections 7.9, 7.10, 7.11  and  7.18 . All Transfer
Taxes imposed by any Tax Authority on the Sellers, the Bank, any Subsidiary of the Bank or Purchaser as a result of the transfer and assignment of the Excluded Assets pursuant to  Sections 7.9, 7.10, 7.11  and  7.18  shall be paid by the
Purchaser up to a maximum of $7 million and any amount in excess thereof shall be borne by Sellers.      2.8.  Closing . The closing of
the purchase and sale of the Purchased Bank Common Shares (the   Closing  ) shall take place at 10:00 a.m. (New York time) on a date to be specified by the parties (the   Closing Date  ), which date shall not occur
prior to January 1, 2009 and shall otherwise be no later than the fifth (5th) Business Day after satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in  Article IX  (other than those conditions that by their nature are to be satisfied
at the Closing, but subject to the satisfaction or waiver of those conditions at such time), at the offices of Mayer Brown LLP, 1675 Broadway, New York, New York 10019, unless another time, date or place is agreed to in writing by the parties
hereto. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Purchaser may, at its option, postpone the Closing until the last Business Day in the month in which the conditions set forth in  Article IX  are satisfied or waived,  provided  that, if at any time
Purchaser exercises its option under this sentence, the condition under  Section 9.2(a)  shall be deemed to be satisfied as of such delayed Closing Date if it were satisfied as of the date Closing would have otherwise occurred absent such
delay. At the Closing, the Purchaser will (a) pay to each Seller its share of the Cash Consideration as set forth in  Section 2.2  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule and (b) issue to each Seller its share of the Stock Consideration
as set forth in  Section 2.2  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule, subject in each case to adjustment pursuant to  Section 2.3 . The payment to the Sellers at Closing of the Cash Consideration shall be by wire transfer of immediately
available funds to an account or accounts designated by the Sellers in writing at least three (3) Business Days prior to the Closing Date. The Stock Consideration shall be delivered electronically through the Depository Trust Company s
Deposit/Withdrawal At Custodian (DWAC) System to the account or accounts designated by the Sellers in writing at least three (3) Business Days prior to the Closing Date.      2.9.  Closing Deliverables . At the Closing, the following shall occur:      (a) the Purchaser shall deliver to each Seller:      (i) the Cash Consideration payable to such Seller pursuant to  Section 2.2,  subject to adjustment pursuant to
 Section 2.3 ;      (ii) confirmation of deposit of the Stock Consideration in the account or accounts designated by
the Sellers as contemplated by  Section 2.8 , subject to adjustment pursuant to  Section 2.3 ; and      (iii) a certificate of the Purchaser, dated as of the Closing Date, as to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in  Sections 9.1  and  9.3 ; and       
  
   15   

(iv) such other instruments and documents as reasonably requested by the Sellers in order
to consummate the transactions contemplated under this Agreement.      (b) the Sellers shall deliver to the Purchaser:
     (i) certificates, free and clear of any Liens or rights or claims of others, representing all of the Purchased Bank Common
Shares purchased by the Purchaser under this Agreement in genuine and unaltered form, duly endorsed in blank or accompanied by duly executed stock powers and with any required stock transfer stamps affixed thereto;      (ii) a certificate of each Seller, dated as of the Closing Date, as to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in  Sections 9.1 
and  9.2 ;      (iii) a duly executed certificate of each Seller, dated as of the Closing Date, certifying that such Seller
is not a foreign Person within the meaning of Section 1445(f)(3) of the Code, reasonably satisfactory to Purchaser and substantially in the form of the sample certification set forth in Treasury Regulation Section 1.1445-2(b)(2)(iv)(B);
     (iv) the instrument or instruments of the trustee under the 2004 Indenture acknowledging the release of the Bank Common
Stock from the Lien of the trustee under the 2004 Indenture; and      (v) such other instruments and documents as reasonably
requested by the Purchaser in order to consummate the transactions contemplated under this Agreement.      ARTICLE III      REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES REGARDING THE SELLERS      Each Seller, solely on its behalf and not on behalf of or with respect to any other Seller, represents and warrants to the Purchaser as follows:      3.1.  Authority; No Violation . (a) (i) Such Seller has full corporate or other applicable power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated
hereby, (ii) the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the consummation by such Seller of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly and validly approved by all necessary corporate or other applicable action of such Seller,
(iii) no other corporate and no shareholder proceedings on the part of such Seller are necessary to approve this Agreement or to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and (iv) this Agreement has been duly and validly executed and
delivered by such Seller and (assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the Purchaser and the other Sellers) constitutes a valid and binding obligation of such Seller, enforceable against such Seller in accordance with its terms, except
as enforcement may be limited by general principles of equity, whether applied in a court of law or a court of equity, and by bankruptcy, insolvency and similar laws affecting creditors  rights and remedies generally (the   Bankruptcy
and Equity Exception  ).         
   16   

(b) Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement by such Seller nor the
consummation by such Seller of the transactions contemplated hereby, nor compliance by such Seller with any of the terms or provisions hereof, will (i) violate any provision of the federal charter or bylaws of the Bank or any of the Constituent
Documents of any of its Subsidiaries or (ii) assuming that the consents, approvals and waiting periods referred to in  Section 4.3  are duly obtained or satisfied, (x) violate any law, statute, code, ordinance, rule, regulation,
judgment, order, award, writ, decree or injunction issued, promulgated or entered into by or with any Governmental Authority (each, a   Law  ) applicable to the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties,
rights or assets, or (y) violate, conflict with, result in a breach of any provision of or the loss of any benefit under, or require redemption or repurchase or otherwise require the purchase or sale of any securities, constitute a default
under, result in the termination of or a right of termination, modification or cancellation under, accelerate the performance required by, or result in the creation of any Lien (or have any of such results or effects upon notice or lapse of time, or
both) upon any of the respective properties, rights or assets of the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries under, any of the terms, conditions or provisions of (1) any leases or related agreements related to branches or other facilities operated by
any of the Bank s Subsidiaries or (2) any note, bond, mortgage, indenture, deed of trust, license, lease (other than such leases covered by  clause (y)(1)  above), agreement, contract, permit, concession, franchise or other instrument
or obligation to which the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries is a party, or by which they or any of their respective properties, rights, assets or business activities may be bound or affected, except in the case of  clause   (ii) , for such
violations, conflicts, breaches, defaults or other events which would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Bank.      3.2.  Ownership . Such Seller owns beneficially and of record and has good and marketable title to all of the Purchased Bank Common Shares listed
opposite such Seller s name in  Section 2.1  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule. Except as otherwise specified in  Section 3.2  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule, such Seller is not a party to any agreement (other than this
Agreement) creating rights in any Person with respect to the Purchased Bank Common Shares and such Seller has the power to sell, assign, transfer and deliver such Purchased Bank Common Shares to the Purchaser in accordance with this Agreement, free
and clear of all Liens, voting trusts and restrictions on transfer of any nature whatsoever, except for restrictions on transfer imposed by or pursuant to federal or state securities Laws. Such Seller will transfer and deliver to the Purchaser at
the Closing valid and marketable title to, and the entire legal and beneficial interest in, such Purchased Bank Common Shares free and clear of any Lien.      3.3.  Seller Qualifications . Such Seller: (a) is an  accredited investor  within the meaning of Rule 501(a) under the Securities Act and is knowledgeable, sophisticated and experienced in
financial matters, and is qualified to make the decision to acquire Purchaser Common Shares; (b) is not acquiring the Purchaser Common Shares with a view to a distribution thereof (within the meaning of the Securities Act); and
(c) understands that its acquisition of Purchaser Common Shares involves a significant degree of risk, including the risk of a total loss of its investment therein.      3.4.  Exempt Transaction; Legend . Such Seller understands and acknowledges that: (a) the Purchaser Common Shares are being acquired in a transaction not involving a public offering within the meaning of the
Securities Act and, except as contemplated by  Article VIII  of this  
       
   17   

Agreement, the reoffering and resale of the Purchaser Common Shares by such Seller has not been registered under the Securities Act; (b) absent an
effective registration statement under the Securities Act, the Purchaser Common Shares acquired hereunder may only be resold, pledged or otherwise transferred pursuant to an applicable exemption from registration under the Securities Act; and
(c) the Purchaser Common Shares received by each Seller will bear a legend (or stop transfer restrictions will be entered with Purchaser s transfer agent) consistent with  clauses (a)  and  (b)  of this
 Section 3.4 .      3.5.  Non-reliance and Waiver . Each Seller hereby acknowledges that (i) Purchaser may be in possession
of material, nonpublic information regarding Purchaser, its financial condition, results of operations, businesses, properties, assets, liabilities, managements, projections, appraisals, and plans, proposals and prospects; (ii) such information
may be materially adverse to such Seller s interests relative to receiving the Stock Consideration as contemplated by this Agreement; and (iii) if such Seller were in possession of some or all of such information it might not be willing to
enter into this Agreement or might have a materially different view of the benefits of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Each Seller also acknowledges and agrees that Purchaser shall have no obligation to disclose to any Seller any of
the information referred to in the preceding sentence. Each Seller further acknowledges that each Seller has conducted its own investigation, to the extent that such Seller has determined necessary or desirable, regarding the information described
in the first sentence of this paragraph, and that each Seller has solely relied upon publicly available information regarding Purchaser in making such investigations and entering into this Agreement. Each Seller hereby, on its own behalf and on
behalf of its affiliates and beneficiaries (as applicable) and its and their respective successors and assigns, irrevocably waives and renounces any and all claims of any nature whatsoever it may have or acquire against Purchaser, its directors,
officers, employees, representatives, or any of their respective affiliates and their respective heirs, successors and assigns, based on non-disclosure, deceptive trade practices, securities or other laws or otherwise in relation to the foregoing,
except to the extent otherwise expressly set forth herein, and acknowledges that neither Purchaser nor any of its directors, officers, employees, representatives or any of their respective affiliates have made any representation or warranty, whether
express or implied, of any kind or character in respect of or in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, except for the representations and warranties expressly set forth in  Article V  of this Agreement.      ARTICLE IV      REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
REGARDING THE BANK      Except for purposes of  Article XI , no representation or warranty of the Sellers contained in this  Article
IV  (other than (i) the representations and warranties contained in  Sections 4.2, 4.5(b)  and  4.23  which shall be true and correct in all respects other than to a de minimis extent and (ii) the representations and
warranties contained in  Sections 4.1  and  4.6  which shall be true and correct in all material respects) will be deemed untrue, and no Seller will be deemed to have breached a representation or warranty, as a consequence of the existence
of any fact, event or circumstance unless such fact, circumstance or event, individually or taken together with all other facts, events or circumstances inconsistent with any representation or warranty contained in  Article IV , has had or is
reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect with respect to the Bank (disregarding for these purposes all qualifications or limitations set forth in any  
       
   18   

representations or warranties as to  materiality,   Material Adverse Effect  and words of similar import). Except: (i) as disclosed
in, and reasonably apparent from, any of the Bank Reports filed with the OTS on or after December 19, 2007 but prior to the date of this Agreement (excluding any disclosures set forth in any risk factor section and in any section relating to
forward-looking, safe harbor or similar statements or any other disclosures in such Bank Reports to the extent they are cautionary, predictive or forward-looking in nature); or (ii) as disclosed in the like-numbered section of the disclosure
schedule delivered by the Bank to the Purchaser contemporaneously with the execution of this Agreement (the   Bank Disclosure Schedule  ), it being agreed that, except as otherwise provided in the Bank Disclosure Schedule, disclosure
of any item in any section of the Bank Disclosure Schedule shall also be deemed disclosure with respect to any other section of  Article IV  to the extent the relevance of such item to another section of  Article   IV  is reasonably
apparent on its face), the Sellers, severally and not jointly, represent and warrant to the Purchaser as follows:      4.1.
 Organization . (a) The Bank is a federally chartered and federally insured stock savings bank. The Bank has all requisite corporate power and authority to own, lease or operate all of its properties, rights and assets and to carry on its
business as it is now being conducted, and is duly licensed or qualified to do business in each jurisdiction in which the nature of the business conducted by it or the character or location of the properties, rights and assets owned, leased or
operated by it makes such licensing or qualification necessary, except where the failure to have such power or authority or to be so licensed or qualified would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse
Effect on the Bank. The federal charter and bylaws of the Bank, copies of which have been made available to the Purchaser, are true, complete and correct copies of such documents as in full force and effect as of the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  Section 4.1(b)  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule sets forth, as of the date hereof, each Subsidiary of the
Bank and all other entities in which the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries owns, directly or indirectly, any shares of capital stock or equity interests. Each Material Subsidiary of the Bank (i) is duly organized and validly existing as a bank,
corporation, partnership or other entity and is in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, (ii) is duly licensed or qualified to do business and is in good standing in all jurisdictions (whether federal, state, local
or foreign) where its ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of its business requires it to be so licensed or qualified and (iii) has all requisite corporate or other power and authority to own or lease its properties, rights and
assets and to carry on its business as now conducted, except, in the case of  clauses (ii)  and  (iii) , where the failure to be so licensed or qualified or to have such power or authority would not reasonably be expected to have,
individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Bank. The certificate of incorporation, bylaws and similar governing documents of each Material Subsidiary of the Bank, copies of which have been made available to the Purchaser, are
true, complete and correct copies of such documents as in full force and effect as of the date of this Agreement.      (c) The deposits of the
Bank are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the   FDIC  ). The Bank is a member in good standing of the Federal Home Loan Bank (  FHLB  ) of Atlanta, Georgia.         
   19   

4.2.  Capitalization . (a) The
authorized capital stock of the Bank consists of 10,000,000 shares of common stock, $1.00 par value per share (the   Bank Common Stock  ), and 15,000,000 shares of preferred stock in series, $0.01 par value per share (the
  Bank Preferred Stock  ). As of the date of this Agreement, 10,000 shares of the Bank Common Stock are issued and outstanding and 5,000,000 shares of 8% Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C, are issued and outstanding.
As of the date of this Agreement, no other shares of Bank Common Stock or Bank Preferred Stock are issued or outstanding. As of the date of this Agreement, other than the 3,300,000 shares of 10   3   /
  8  % Noncumulative Preferred Stock, Series B, of the Bank, which are reserved for issuance upon the exchange, if any, of 10   3   /  8  % Noncumulative Exchangeable Preferred Stock, Series A (  PCAP Preferred Stock  ), of Chevy Chase Preferred Capital Corporation, a Subsidiary of the Bank,
no shares of Bank Common Stock or Bank Preferred Stock are reserved for issuance. Since June 30, 2008 and through the date of this Agreement, the Bank has not (i) issued or authorized the issuance of any shares of Bank Common Stock or Bank
Preferred Stock, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of Bank Common Stock or Bank Preferred Stock, (ii) reserved for issuance any shares of Bank Common Stock or Bank Preferred Stock or
(iii) repurchased or redeemed, or authorized the repurchase or redemption of, any shares of Bank Common Stock. All of the issued and outstanding shares of Bank Common Stock have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and
nonassessable. Except as otherwise specified in  Section 4.2(a)  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule, neither the Bank nor any of its Subsidiaries has or is bound by any outstanding subscriptions, options, warrants, calls, convertible
securities, preemptive rights, redemption rights, stock appreciation rights, stock-based performance units or other similar rights, agreements, arrangements or commitments of any character relating to the purchase or issuance of any shares of the
capital stock of the Bank or of any of its Subsidiaries, or other equity securities of the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries, or any securities representing the right to purchase or otherwise receive any shares of the capital stock of the Bank or any
of its Subsidiaries (including any rights plan or agreement) or equity-based awards. As of the date of this Agreement, (i) there are no contractual obligations of the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries to repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire
any shares of capital stock of the Bank or any equity security of the Bank or its Subsidiaries or any securities representing the right to purchase or otherwise receive any shares of capital stock or any other equity security of the Bank or its
Subsidiaries or (ii) pursuant to which the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries is or could be required to register shares of Bank capital stock or other securities under the Securities Act or similar Laws of the OTS.        (b) Except as otherwise specified in  Section 4.2(b)  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule, the Bank owns, directly or indirectly,
all of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of or all other equity interests in each of the Bank s Material Subsidiaries, free and clear of any liens, charges, encumbrances, claims, security interests or adverse interests
whatsoever (  Liens  ), and all of such shares or other equity interests are duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and nonassessable.      (c) Except for the ownership of the Bank s Subsidiaries and for investments held in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of customers
or acquired in satisfaction of debts previously contracted in good faith, neither the Bank nor any of its Subsidiaries beneficially owns or controls, directly or indirectly, any shares of stock or other equity interest in any corporation, firm,
partnership, joint venture or other entity.         
   20   

(d) Except as otherwise specified in  Section 4.2(d)  of the Bank Disclosure
Schedule, the Bank does not have outstanding any bonds, debentures, notes or other indebtedness having the right to vote on any matters on which shareholders may vote.      4.3.  Consents and Approvals . Except for (i) the filing of applications and notices, as applicable, with the Federal Reserve Board under the BHC Act, (ii) the approval by the OTS of the distribution or
transfer of the Excluded Assets, (iii) the Chevy Chase Trust Required Consents, (iv) the ASB Capital Required Consents, (v) the consents and approvals set forth in  Section 4.3  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule, (vi) the
consents, authorizations, approvals, filings or exemptions in connection with the applicable provisions of federal or state securities Laws or the rules or regulations of any applicable self-regulatory organization, in any such case relating to the
regulation of broker-dealers, investment companies and investment advisors, (vii) the consents, authorizations, approvals, filings or exemptions in connection with the applicable provisions of insurance Laws and (viii) the consents,
authorizations, approvals, filings and registrations of third parties which are not Governmental Authorities, the failure of which to obtain or make would not be reasonably expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse
Effect on the Bank or the Purchaser, no consents or approvals of, or filings or registrations with, any Governmental Authority or of or with any other third party by and on behalf of the Bank (or by or on behalf of any acquiror of the Bank) are
necessary in connection with the consummation by the Bank or the Sellers of the transactions contemplated hereby. No consents or approvals of, or filings or registrations with any Governmental Authority or of or with any other third party by and on
behalf of the Bank (or by or on behalf of any acquiror of the Bank) are necessary in connection with the execution and delivery by the Sellers of this Agreement. As of the date hereof, none of Sellers or the Bank is aware of any reason why the
necessary regulatory approvals and consents will not be received in order to permit consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.      4.4.  Reports; Regulatory Matters . (a) The Bank and each of its Subsidiaries have timely filed all reports, registrations and statements, together with any amendments required to be made with respect thereto, that it was required
to file since December 31, 2005 with (i) the OTS, (ii) the FDIC, (iii) any state insurance commission or other state regulatory authority, and (iv) any other Governmental Authority, and have paid all fees and assessments due
and payable in connection therewith. Except for normal examinations conducted by a Governmental Authority in the ordinary course of business of the Bank and its Subsidiaries, no Governmental Authority has initiated since December 31, 2005 or
has pending any proceeding, enforcement action or, to the knowledge of the Bank, investigation into the business, disclosures or operations of the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries. There is no unresolved violation alleged by any Governmental
Authority with respect to any report or statement relating to any examinations or inspections of the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries.      (b) Except as otherwise specified in  Section 4.4(b)  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule, neither the Bank nor any of its Subsidiaries is subject to any cease-and-desist or other enforcement action issued by,
or is a party to any written agreement, consent agreement or memorandum of understanding with, or is a party to any commitment letter or similar undertaking to, or is subject to any formal order or directive by, or has been since December 31,
2005, a recipient of any supervisory letter from, been ordered to pay any civil money penalty by, any Governmental Authority that currently restricts or affects in any material respect the conduct  
       
   21   

of its business (or to the Bank s knowledge that, upon consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, would restrict in any material respect the
conduct of the business of Purchaser or any of its Subsidiaries), or that in any material manner relates to its capital adequacy, its ability to pay dividends, its credit, risk management or compliance policies, its internal controls, its management
or its business, other than those of general application that apply to similarly situated federal savings banks or their Subsidiaries (each, a   Regulatory Agreement  ), nor has the Bank or any Subsidiary of the Bank been advised
since December 31, 2005 by any Governmental Authority that it is considering issuing, initiating, ordering, or requesting any such Regulatory Agreement.      (c) The Bank has previously made available to the Purchaser an accurate and complete copy of each final report, schedule, registration
statement or prospectus filed with or furnished to the OTS by the Bank between (and including) January 1, 2006 and the date of this Agreement pursuant to the Home Owners Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1461, et seq), Section 563g of OTS regulations or
the Exchange Act (the   Bank Reports  ). No Bank Report or communication, at the time filed, furnished or communicated, contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact required to be stated
therein or necessary in order to make the statements made therein, in light of the circumstances in which they were made, not misleading, except that information as of a later date (but before the date of this Agreement) shall be deemed to modify
information as of an earlier date. As of the respective dates, all Bank Reports complied as to form in all material respects with the published rules and regulations of the OTS with respect thereto.      4.5.  Financial Statements; Undisclosed Liabilities . (a) The financial statements of the Bank and its Subsidiaries (including any related
notes and schedules thereto) included in the Bank Reports complied as to form, as of their respective dates of filing with or furnishing to the OTS (or, if amended or superseded by a subsequent filing prior to the date hereof, as of the date of such
subsequent filing), in all material respects, with all applicable accounting requirements and with the published rules and regulations of the OTS with respect thereto (except, in the case of unaudited statements, as permitted by Form 10-Q of the
OTS), were prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis during the periods involved (except as may be disclosed therein), fairly present, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Bank and its
Subsidiaries and the consolidated results of operations, changes in stockholders  equity and cash flows of such companies as of the dates and for the periods shown (subject, in the case of unaudited statements, to normal year-end audit
adjustments, none of which is expected to be material, and to any other adjustments described therein, including the notes thereto), and have been prepared from, and are in accordance with, the books and records of the Bank and its Subsidiaries. The
books and records of the Bank and its Subsidiaries have been, and are being, maintained in all material respects in accordance with GAAP and any other applicable legal and accounting requirements and reflect only actual transactions.
Ernst   Young LLP has not resigned or been dismissed as independent public accountants of the Bank as a result of or in connection with any disagreements with the Bank on a matter of accounting principles or practices, financial statement
disclosure or auditing scope or procedure.         
   22   

(b)  Section 4.5(b)  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule sets forth the unaudited
pro forma consolidated balance sheet for the Bank and its Subsidiaries giving effect to the disposition of certain of the Excluded Assets, together with a calculation of Tangible Common Equity giving effect to the disposition of the Excluded Assets,
in each case as of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008 (the   Pro Forma Financial Statements  ). The Pro Forma Financial Statements were prepared in good faith, fairly present, in all material respects, the consolidated
financial position of the Bank and its Subsidiaries, collectively giving effect to the disposition of the Excluded Assets, as of the dates shown (subject to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes, none of which is expected to
be material, and to any other adjustment described therein), and have been prepared from, and are in accordance with, the books and records of the Bank and its Subsidiaries. The Audited Financial Statements will be prepared in accordance with GAAP
applied on a consistent basis during the periods involved (except as may be disclosed therein), will fairly present, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Bank and its Subsidiaries, giving effect to the disposition of
the Excluded Assets, and the consolidated results of operations, changes in stockholders  equity and cash flows of such companies as of the dates and for the periods shown (subject to any other adjustment described therein, including the notes
thereto), and will be prepared from, and be in accordance with, the books and records of the Bank and its Subsidiaries.      (c)
Except for (i) those liabilities that are fully reflected or reserved for in the consolidated balance sheet of the Bank included in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2008, as filed with the OTS,
(ii) this Agreement or (iii) liabilities incurred since June 30, 2008 in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, neither the Bank nor any of its Subsidiaries has incurred any liability of any nature whatsoever
(whether absolute, accrued or contingent or otherwise and whether due or to become due) that either alone or when combined with all other liabilities of a type not described in  clause (i) ,  (ii)  or  (iii)  has had, or
would be reasonably expected to have, a Material Adverse Effect on the Bank.      (d) The records, systems, controls, data and
information of the Bank and its Subsidiaries are recorded, stored, maintained and operated under means that are under the exclusive ownership and direct control of the Bank or its Subsidiaries or accountants (including all means of access thereto
and therefrom), except for any non-exclusive ownership and non- direct control that would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the system of internal accounting controls described below in this  Section 4.5(d) .
The Bank (x) has implemented and maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act) to ensure that material information relating to the Bank, including its consolidated Subsidiaries, is made known to
the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer of the Bank by others within those entities, and (y) has disclosed, based on its most recent evaluation prior to the date hereof, to the Bank s outside auditors and the audit
committee of the Bank s Board of Directors (i) any significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act) which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the Bank s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information and (ii) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in
the Bank s internal controls over financial reporting. These disclosures were made in writing by management to the Bank s auditors and audit committee. As of the date hereof, there is no reason to believe that the Bank s outside
auditors, chief executive officer and chief financial officer will not be able to give the certifications and attestations required pursuant to the rules and regulations adopted pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the
  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  ), without qualification, when next due.         
   23   

4.6.  Broker s Fees . Except for Citigroup Global Markets Inc., none of the Bank, any of its
Subsidiaries, the Sellers nor any of their respective officers or directors has employed any broker or finder or incurred any liability for any broker s fees, commissions or finder s fees in connection with any transaction contemplated by
this Agreement. True, correct and complete copies of all agreements with Citigroup Global Markets Inc. relating to any such customary fees or commissions have been furnished to the Purchaser prior to the date hereof.      4.7.  Absence of Certain Changes or Events . Since June 30, 2008 and except as reflected in the Current Balance Sheet, and any subsequent
mark-to-market adjustments in relation to the loan or securities portfolio of the Bank and its Subsidiaries, (i) no event or events have occurred or circumstance or circumstances have arisen or condition or conditions exist which has had or
would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Bank and (ii) prior to the date hereof the Bank and its Subsidiaries have carried on their respective businesses in all material respects
in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice and neither the Bank nor any of its Subsidiaries has: (A) effected or authorized any adjustment, split, combination or reclassification of any of its capital stock, or redeemed,
purchased or otherwise acquired any shares of its capital stock or any securities or obligations convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any shares of its capital stock or stock appreciation rights; (B) declared, set aside or paid
any dividend other than regular quarterly cash dividends on the Bank Preferred Stock and the PCAP Preferred Stock, any dividend on the common stock of Chevy Chase Preferred Capital Corporation paid to the Bank in the ordinary course consistent with
past practice and any dividend described in  Sections 7.9 ,  7.10  and  7.11 ; (C) settled any claims, actions or proceedings involving monetary damages individually or in the aggregate in excess of $5,000,000; or (D) agreed
to, or made any commitment to, take any of the foregoing actions.      4.8.  Legal Proceedings . (a) Except as set forth in
 Section 4.8  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule, neither the Bank nor any of its Subsidiaries is a party to any, and there are no pending or, to the best of such Seller s knowledge, threatened, legal, administrative, arbitral or other
proceedings, claims, actions or governmental or regulatory investigations of any nature (excluding foreclosure or bankruptcy litigation initiated by the Bank arising in the ordinary course of managing the Bank s financial assets) against or
affecting the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries or to which any of their assets are subject or challenging the validity or propriety of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement which, in the case of each of the foregoing, would reasonably be
expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Bank.      (b) There is no injunction,
order, award, judgment, settlement, decree or regulatory restriction imposed upon or entered into by the Bank, any of its Subsidiaries or the assets of the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries (or that, upon consummation of the transactions contemplated
by this Agreement, would apply to Purchaser or any of its Subsidiaries) which would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Bank (or Purchaser, as the case may be).         
   24   

4.9.  Taxes .      (a) Except as set forth in  Section 4.9(a)  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule, each of the Bank, B.F. Saul REIT, and their
respective Subsidiaries has duly and timely filed all material Tax Returns that were required to be filed by or with respect to it, and have paid in full all Taxes with respect to the periods covered by such Tax Returns (whether or not shown thereon
as owing). The information provided on such Tax Returns is complete and accurate in all material respects. No jurisdiction where B.F. Saul REIT, the Bank or any of their respective Subsidiaries do not file a Tax Return has made a claim in writing
that any of them is required to file a Tax Return in such jurisdiction.      (b)  Section 4.9(b)  of the Bank
Disclosure Schedule lists all material federal income Tax Returns and all other types of material income Tax Returns and the corresponding jurisdictions of such Tax Returns filed with respect to the Bank and its Subsidiaries for taxable periods
ended on or after September 30, 2004, indicates which of the income Tax Returns filed with respect to the Bank and its Subsidiaries for taxable periods ended on or after September 30, 2004 have been audited, and indicates which of the Tax
Returns filed with respect to the Bank and its Subsidiaries for taxable periods ended on or after September 30, 2004 currently are, as of the date of this Agreement, the subject of audit. The Tax Returns of B.F. Saul REIT, the Bank and their
respective Subsidiaries (or any consolidated, combined, unitary or affiliated group of which any of them is or has been a member) have been examined by the applicable Governmental Authority, or the applicable statutes of limitations for the
assessment of Taxes for such periods have expired and all deficiencies proposed as a result of any examinations or audits have been paid in full or finally settled, with respect to all periods ended prior to September 30, 2004.      (c) Except as set forth in  Section 4.9(c)  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule, none of the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries has
waived any statute of limitations in respect of Taxes or agreed to any extension of time with respect to a Tax assessment or deficiency.      (d) Except as set forth in  Section 4.9(d)  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule, none of the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries is a party to any income Tax allocation, sharing, indemnity or similar agreement.
     (e) Except as set forth in  Section 4.9(e)  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule, each of the Bank and its eligible
Subsidiaries is a member of the consolidated group, within the meaning of Treas. Reg.  1.1502-1(h), for which B.F. Saul REIT is the common parent, and neither the Bank nor any of its Subsidiaries (i) has been a member of an affiliated
group of corporations within the meaning of Section 1504 of the Code or any consolidated, combined or unitary group for the purpose of any Tax (other than a group the common parent of which is B.F. Saul REIT for federal income tax purposes or
B.F. Saul REIT, the Bank or the Bank Subsidiaries for non-federal purposes) or (ii) has any liability for Taxes of any other Person (other than any other legal entity that is a member of the affiliated group filing a federal consolidated income
tax return, of which the Company or such Subsidiary is currently a member) under Treas. Reg.   1.1502-6 (or any similar provision of state, local or foreign Law).       
  
   25   

(f) Except as set forth in  Section 4.9(f)  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule,
all Taxes which the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries is required by law to withhold or collect, including, without limitation, sales and use taxes, and amounts required to be withheld for taxes of employees or other third parties, have been duly
withheld or collected and, to the extent required, have been paid over to the proper authority or are held in separate bank accounts for such purpose.      (g) Except as set forth in  Section 4.9(g)  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule, there is not pending or threatened in writing any audit, examination, investigation or other proceeding with respect to Taxes
against B.F. Saul REIT, the Bank or any of their respective Subsidiaries (or any consolidated, combined, unitary or affiliated group of which any of them is or has been a member), and during the past three years, no claim has been made in writing by
any Governmental Authority in a jurisdiction where any of them does not file Tax Returns to the effect that B.F. Saul REIT, the Bank or any of their respective Subsidiaries may be subject to taxation by that jurisdiction.      (h) Neither the Bank nor any of its Subsidiaries is subject to any closing agreement pursuant to Section 7121 of the Code or any
predecessor provision thereof, or any corresponding or similar provision of state, local or foreign Law, or is subject to, or has pending any request for, any private letter ruling, technical advice or permission for any change in accounting
methods.      (i) There are no Liens, except for those that occur by operation of law by reason of those actions described in
 Section 4.9(g)  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule, for Taxes against any of the assets or properties of the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries.      (j) Neither the Bank nor any Subsidiary will be required to include any item of income in, or exclude any item of deduction from, taxable income for any Post-Closing Tax Period as a result of any (i) change in
method of accounting for a Pre-Closing Tax Period under Section 481(c) of the Code (or any corresponding or similar provision of state, local or non-U.S. Law), or (ii) installment sale or open transaction disposition or intercompany
transaction made on or prior to the Closing Date.      (k) Neither the Bank nor any of its Subsidiaries has been a party to any
distribution occurring during the three-year period prior to the date of this Agreement, or otherwise as part of a plan (or series of related transactions) of which this transaction is a part, in which the parties to such distribution treated the
distribution as one to which Section 355 of the Code applied.      (l) Except as set forth in  Section 4.9(l)  of
the Bank Disclosure Schedule, neither the Bank nor any of its Subsidiaries has participated in a  reportable transaction  within the meaning of Treas. Reg.   1.6011-4(b).      (m) Except as set forth in  Section 4.9(m)  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule, neither the Bank nor any of its Subsidiaries has
elected or is required to use a mark to market method of accounting for U.S. federal, state or local tax purposes.         
   26   

(n) The aggregate payments made by the Bank and its Subsidiaries pursuant to the Tax
Sharing Agreement (as defined herein) for the 2008 taxable year and any subsequent year with respect to U.S. federal income taxes do not exceed $70 million.      4.10.  Employees; Employee Benefit Plans . (a)  Section 4.10(a)  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule contains a true and complete list of each  employee benefit plan  (within the meaning of
Section 3(3) of ERISA), stock purchase, stock option, severance, employment, loan, change-in-control, fringe benefit, collective bargaining, bonus, incentive, deferred compensation and all other compensation or employee benefit plans,
agreements, programs, policies or other arrangements, whether or not subject to ERISA, under which (i) any current or former employee, officer, director, consultant or independent contractor of the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries (  Bank
Employees  ) has any present or future right to benefits and which are contributed to, sponsored by or maintained by the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries or (ii) the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries has any present or future material
liability. All such plans, agreements, programs, policies and arrangements shall be collectively referred to as the   Plans  .      (b) With respect to each Plan, the Bank has delivered to the Purchaser or made available a current, accurate and complete copy (or, to the extent no such copy exists, an accurate description) thereof and, to the
extent applicable: (i) any related trust agreement or other funding instrument; (ii) the most recent determination letter, if applicable; (iii) any summary plan description; and (iv) for the three (3) most recent years as
applicable, (A) Form 5500 and attached schedules, (B) audited financial statements and (C) actuarial valuation reports.      (c) Except as would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Bank: (i) each Plan has been established and administered in all respects in accordance
with its terms, and in all respects in compliance with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code and other applicable Laws; (ii) each Plan and the related trust which is intended to be qualified within the meaning of
Section 401(a) of the Code is so qualified and is tax exempt under Section 501(a) and each such Plan has received a favorable determination letter as to its qualification, and nothing has occurred, whether by action or failure to
act, that could reasonably be expected to cause the loss of such qualification; (iii) no event has occurred and no condition exists that would subject the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries, either directly or by reason of their affiliation with
any ERISA Affiliate, to any tax, fine, lien, penalty or other liability imposed by ERISA, the Code or other applicable Laws; (iv) for each Plan with respect to which a Form 5500 has been filed, no material change has occurred with respect to
the matters covered by the most recent Form since the date thereof, (v) no non-exempt  prohibited transaction  (as such term is defined in Section 406 of ERISA and Section 4975 of the Code) has occurred with respect to any
Plan; (vi) no Plan provides post-employment welfare (including health, medical or life insurance) benefits and neither the Bank nor any of its Subsidiaries have any obligation to provide any such post-employment welfare benefits now or in the
future, other than as required by Section 4980B of the Code; (vii) neither the Bank nor any ERISA Affiliate has engaged in, or is a successor or parent corporation to an entity that has engaged in, a transaction described in Sections 4069
or 4212(c) of ERISA; (viii) each  nonqualified deferred compensation plan  (as defined in Section 409A(d)(1) of the Code) has been operated in good faith compliance with Section 409A of the Code; and (ix) no Plan is, or
has during the past six years been (A) a  multiemployer plan  within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, (B) a plan that has two or more contributing sponsors at least two of whom  
       
   27   

are not under common control, within the meaning of Section 4063 of ERISA or (C) subject to Title IV or Section 302 of ERISA or
Section 412 or 4971 of the Code; (x) none of the Bank and its subsidiaries nor any ERISA Affiliates has incurred any liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as those
terms are defined in Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA and (xi) there does not now exist, nor do any circumstances exist that could reasonably be expected to result in, any Controlled Group Liability.      (d) With respect to any Plan, except as would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse
Effect on the Bank, (i) no actions, suits or claims (other than routine claims for benefits in the ordinary course) are pending or, to the knowledge of the Bank, threatened, (ii) no facts or circumstances exist that could give rise to any
such actions, suits or claims and (iii) no administrative investigation, audit or other administrative proceeding by the Department of Labor, the Internal Revenue Service or other governmental agencies are pending or, to the knowledge of the
Bank, threatened.      (e) All amounts with respect to the Bank Deferred Compensation Plans that are required to be accrued
under GAAP have been fully accrued on the Pro Forma Financial Statements and the amount that will accrue with respect to the B.F. Saul Company Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan after September 30, 2008 through December 31, 2008 will
not exceed $2,300,000, and all such accruals shall be in accordance with the terms of such plan.      (f) Except as set forth in
 Section 4.10(f)  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule, (i) no Plan exists that could result in the payment to any present or former Bank Employees of any money or other property or accelerate or provide any other rights or benefits to any
present or former Bank Employees as a result of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (whether alone or in connection with any subsequent event(s)); and (ii) there is no Plan that, individually or collectively, could reasonably be
expected to give, or which has given, rise to the payment of any amount that would not be deductible pursuant to the terms of Section 280G of the Code in connection with the transactions contemplated under this Agreement.      4.11.  Compliance with Applicable Law . (a) The Bank and each of its Subsidiaries hold all material licenses, franchises, permits and
authorizations necessary for the lawful conduct of their respective businesses under and pursuant to each, and have complied with and are not in default or violation of any, applicable Law, including any applicable anti-money laundering Law,
relating to the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries, except where the failure to hold such license, franchise, permit or authorization or such noncompliance, default or violation would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the
aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Bank, and neither the Bank nor any of its Subsidiaries knows of, or has received notice of, any defaults or violations of applicable Law which would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the
aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Bank.      (b) The Bank and each of its Subsidiaries has properly administered all
accounts for which it acts as a fiduciary, including accounts for which it acts as a trustee, agent, custodian, personal representative, guardian, conservator or investment advisor, in accordance with the terms of the governing documents of such
accounts and applicable Law, except where the failure to properly administer such accounts would not reasonably be expected to have,  
       
   28   

individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Bank, and neither the Bank nor any of its Subsidiaries knows of, or has received notice
of, any failure to properly administer all accounts for which it acts as a fiduciary which would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Bank. None of the Bank, any of its Subsidiaries, or
any director, officer or employee of the Bank or of any of its Subsidiaries has committed any breach of trust or fiduciary duty with respect to any such fiduciary account, and the accountings for each such fiduciary account are true and correct and
accurately reflect the assets of such fiduciary account.      4.12.  Certain Contracts . (a) Except for those agreements and other
documents filed as exhibits to the Bank s Annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007, neither the Bank nor any of its Subsidiaries is a party to or is bound by any Contract which is a (i)  material
contract  (as defined in Item 601(b)(10) of Regulation S-K of the SEC); (ii) Contract for the purchase or sale of any material assets by the Bank or its Subsidiaries; (iii) Contract limiting the unrestricted ability of the Bank
or any of its Subsidiaries to engage in any lines of business to compete with any other Person or prohibiting the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries from soliciting customers, clients or employees, in each case whether in any specified geographic
region or business or generally; (iv) lease or other Contract pursuant to which the annualized base rent for the lease year that includes December 31, 2007, or the consideration paid during the calendar year ended December 31, 2007,
as applicable, was in excess of $1,000,000; (v) Contract in respect of any partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, operating or similar arrangement involving a sharing of profits or losses on the part of the Bank or its
Subsidiaries; (vi) Contract or instrument for the borrowing of money or the guaranty of any obligation, where the Bank or its Subsidiaries is a lender, borrower or guarantor, other than those entered into in the ordinary course of business;
(vii) any Contract regarding any agent bank or other similar relationships with respect to lines of business; (viii) Contract with any Governmental Authority (other than any banking arrangements with governmental entities in the ordinary
course of business) or (ix) Contract with any Seller or any of its Affiliates. Each contract, arrangement or commitment of the type described in this  Section 4.12(a)  is referred to herein as a   Bank Contract  . The
Bank has made available to the Purchaser true, correct and complete copies of each Bank Contract.      (b) (i) Each Bank
Contract is valid and binding on the Bank or its applicable Subsidiary, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms (subject to the Bankruptcy and Equity Exception) and in full force and effect, and, to the knowledge of the Bank, is valid
and binding on the other parties thereto, (ii) the Bank and each of its Subsidiaries and, to the knowledge of the Bank, each of the other parties thereto, has performed all obligations required to be performed by it to date under each Bank
Contract, and (iii) no event or condition exists which constitutes or, after notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a breach or default on the part of the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Bank, any other
party thereto, under any such Bank Contract, except, in each case, as would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Bank. No written notice of default or termination has been received
under any Bank Contract. There are no material disputes pending or, to the Bank s knowledge, threatened with respect to any Bank Contract.         
   29   

4.13.  Title to Property . (a) The Bank and its Subsidiaries have good, valid and marketable
title to all real property owned by them as reflected in the most recent audited balance sheet included in the Bank Reports or acquired after the date thereof, except for properties that have been disposed of in the ordinary course of business since
the date of such balance sheet, free and clear of all Liens, except (x) Liens for current Taxes not yet due and payable and other standard exceptions commonly found in title policies in the jurisdiction where such real property is located,
(y) such encumbrances and imperfections of title, if any, as do not materially detract from the value (as reflected in the Bank s consolidated financial statements) of the properties or otherwise materially impair business operations at
such properties and (z) other such Liens as would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Bank. All real property and fixtures used in or relevant to the business, operations or
financial condition of the Bank and its Subsidiaries are in good condition and repair except as would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Bank.      (b) The Bank and its Subsidiaries have good, valid and marketable title to all tangible personal property owned by them as reflected in
the most recent audited balance sheet included in the Bank Reports or acquired after the date thereof, except for assets that have been disposed of in the ordinary course of business since the date of such balance sheet, free and clear of all Liens
except as would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Bank.      (c) The Bank or one of its Subsidiaries is the lessee of all leasehold estates reflected in the most recent audited consolidated financial statements included in the Bank Reports or acquired after the date thereof, except for leases that
have expired by their terms since the date thereof. All such leases of real property and all other leases material to the Bank and its Subsidiaries under which the Bank or one of its Subsidiaries, as lessee, leases personal property are valid and
binding in accordance with their respective terms, and there is not under any such lease any material existing default by the Bank or such Subsidiary or, to the knowledge of the Bank, any other party thereto, or any event which with notice or lapse
of time or both would constitute such a default, except in any such case as would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Bank.      4.14.  Insurance .  Section 4.14  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule contains a true, correct and complete list and a brief description of
all material insurance policies in force on the date hereof with respect to the business and assets of the Bank and its Subsidiaries (other than insurance policies under which the Bank or any Subsidiary thereof is named as a loss payee, insured or
additional insured as a result of its position as a secured lender on specific loans and mortgage insurance policies on specific loans or pools of loans). The Bank and its Subsidiaries are in material compliance with their insurance policies and are
not in default under any of the material terms thereof, each such policy is outstanding and in full force and effect, all premiums and other payments due under any material policy have been paid, and all claims thereunder have been filed in due and
timely fashion, except, in each case, as would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Bank.         
   30   

4.15.  Environmental Liability . (a) Except as would not reasonably be expected to have,
individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Bank: there are no legal, administrative, arbitral or other proceedings, claims, actions, or to the knowledge of the Bank, private environmental investigations or remediation
activities or governmental investigations seeking to impose, or that reasonably could be expected to result in the imposition, on the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries of any liability or obligation arising under common law standards of conduct
relating to environmental exposure, human health or safety as it relates to Hazardous Substance handling or exposure, or under any local, state or federal Law relating to the protection of the environment or human health or safety as it relates to
Hazardous Substance handling or exposure, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (collectively, the   Environmental Laws  ), pending or, to the knowledge of the Bank,
threatened against the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries and to the knowledge of the Bank, no such proceeding, claim, action or governmental investigation that would impose any such liability or obligation is anticipated by the Bank.
 Section 4.15(a)  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule sets forth all legal, regulatory, administrative, arbitral or other proceedings, claims, actions, and, to the knowledge of the Bank, private environmental investigations or remediation
activities or governmental investigations seeking to impose, or that reasonably could be expected to result in the imposition, on the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries of any material liability or obligation arising under Environmental Laws pending
or, to the knowledge of the Bank, threatened against the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries as of the date of this Agreement. During or, to the knowledge of the Bank, prior to the period of (i) its or any of its Subsidiaries  ownership or
operation of any of their respective current properties, (ii) its or any of its Subsidiaries  management of any property, or (iii) its or any of its Subsidiaries  holding of a security interest or other interest in any property,
there were no releases or threatened releases of hazardous, toxic, radioactive or dangerous materials or other materials regulated under Environmental Laws (  Hazardous Substances  ) in, on, under or affecting any such property which
would reasonably be expected to result in any claim against, or liability of, the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries that would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Bank.      (b) Neither the Bank nor any of its Subsidiaries is subject to any agreement, order, judgment, decree, letter or memorandum by or with any
Governmental Authority or third party imposing any liability or obligation pursuant to or under any Environmental Law that would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Bank.
 Section 4.15(b)  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule sets forth all agreements, orders, judgments, decrees, legal claims or settlements by or with any Governmental Authority or third party imposing on the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries any
material liability or obligation pursuant to or under any Environmental Law as of the date of this Agreement.      4.16.  Intellectual
Property . Except as would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Bank, (i) the Bank and each of its Subsidiaries owns or otherwise has the right to use, all intellectual
property rights, including all trademarks, trade dress, trade names, service marks, domain names, patents, inventions, trade secrets, know-how, works of authorship and copyrights therein, that are used in the conduct of their existing businesses and
all rights relating to the plans, design and specifications of its branch facilities (  Proprietary Rights  ) free and clear of all Liens and any claims of ownership by current or former employees, contractors, designers or others,
(ii) neither the Bank nor any of its Subsidiaries has materially infringed, diluted, misappropriated or violated, nor has the Bank or any or its Subsidiaries received any written (or, to the knowledge of the Bank, oral)  
       
   31   

communications alleging that any of them has materially infringed, diluted, misappropriated or violated, any of the Proprietary Rights owned by any other
person and (iii) neither the Bank nor its Subsidiaries owes any material royalties or payments to any third party for using or licensing to others any Proprietary Rights. To the best of each Seller s knowledge, no other person is
infringing, diluting, misappropriating or violating, nor has the Bank or any or its Subsidiaries sent any written communications within the past two years alleging that any person has infringed, diluted, misappropriated or violated, any of the
Proprietary Rights owned by the Bank and its Subsidiaries.      4.17.  Loan Matters .      (a)  Definitions . For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned below:        Advances   means, with respect to Bank, any of its Subsidiaries or any Servicing agreements, the moneys that have been
advanced by Bank or any of its Subsidiaries on or before the Closing Date from its funds in connection with its servicing of any Loans.        Loans   shall mean, as applicable, any extension of credit (or commitment to extend credit) including but not limited to (i) any mortgage loan owned by the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries,
including a mortgage loan that has closed but has not funded and (ii) any mortgage loan or any other type of loan or loan servicing rights that, as of any time, the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries or any predecessor in interest of the Bank or
any of its Subsidiaries owned and subsequently sold, transferred conveyed or assigned.      (b) Each Loan has been solicited and
originated and is administered and serviced, and the relevant Loan files are being maintained, in all material respects in accordance with the relevant loan documents, the Bank s underwriting standards (and, in the case of Loans held for resale
to investors, the underwriting standards, if any, of the applicable investors) and with all applicable requirements of federal, state and local Laws, regulations and rules.      (c) Except as set forth in  Section 4.17(c)  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule, none of the agreements pursuant to which the Bank
or any of its Subsidiaries has sold Loans or pools of Loans or participations in Loans or pools of Loans contains any obligation to repurchase such Loans or interests therein solely on account of a payment default by the obligor on any such Loan or
otherwise creates a recourse obligation on the part of the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries.      (d) Each of the Bank and its
Subsidiaries, as applicable, is approved by and is in good standing: (i) as a supervised mortgagee by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (  HUD  ) to originate and service Title I FHA mortgage loans; (ii) by the
Department of Veteran s Affairs ( VA ) to originate and service VA loans; and (iii) as a seller/servicer by the Federal National Mortgage Association (  Fannie Mae  ) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
(  Freddie Mac  ) to originate and service conventional residential mortgage Loans.      (e) None of the Bank or
any of its Subsidiaries is now nor has it ever been subject to any fine, suspension, settlement or other agreement or other administrative agreement or sanction by, or any reduction in any loan purchase commitment from, HUD, the VA, Fannie  
       
   32   

Mae, Freddie Mac or other investor, or any federal or state agency relating to the origination, sale or servicing of mortgage or consumer Loans. The Bank has
not received any notice, nor does it have any reason to believe, that Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac propose to limit or terminate the underwriting authority of the Bank and its Subsidiaries or to increase the guarantee fees payable to such investor.
     (f) Each of the Bank and its Subsidiaries, and each Loan, is in compliance in all material respects with all applicable
federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations and related regulatory guidance, including the Truth-In-Lending Act and Regulation Z, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and Regulation X,
the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and all HUD, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, other investor and mortgage insurance company requirements relating to the origination, sale, servicing, and securitization of mortgage and
consumer Loans.      (g) Each Loan included in a pool of Loans originated, acquired, serviced or securitized by the Bank or any
of its Subsidiaries (a   Pool  ) meets all eligibility requirements (including all applicable requirements for obtaining mortgage insurance certificates and loan guaranty certificates) for inclusion in such Pool. All such Pools have
been finally certified or, if required, recertified in accordance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, except where the time for certification or recertification has not yet expired. No Pools have been improperly certified, and no Loan
has been bought out of a Pool without all required approvals of the applicable investors.      (h) Each Loan is evidenced by a
mortgage note and is duly secured by a valid first lien or subordinate lien on the related mortgaged property, in each case, on such forms and with terms that comply with Law. Each such mortgage note and the related mortgage is genuine and each is
the legal, valid and binding obligation of the maker thereof, enforceable in accordance with its terms.      (i) The Advances
are valid and subsisting amounts owing to Bank and its applicable Subsidiary and are carried on the books of Bank or the applicable Subsidiary at values determined in accordance with GAAP, and are not subject to setoffs or claims arising from acts
or omissions of Bank or any of its Subsidiaries. No investor has claimed any defense, offset or counterclaim to repayment of any Advance that is pending.      (j) Sellers have previously delivered to Purchaser, via posting in their electronic data room prior to the date hereof, certain files on which information regarding the Loans is recorded (the
  Tapes  ). The information contained in the Tapes is true and accurate in all material respects as of the date specified therein.      4.18.  Related Party Loans . As of the date hereof, no Loans to any Affiliate of the Bank or any Seller are presently in default or, during the three year period prior to the date of this Agreement, have been in default or have been
restructured, modified or extended. As of the date hereof, the Bank has not been notified that principal and interest with respect to any such Loan will not be paid when due or that the Loan grade classification accorded such Loan by the Bank is
considered incorrect by any applicable Governmental Authority. As of the date hereof, (i) the Bank has no outstanding Loans to any Bank Employee that are in violation of Federal Reserve Regulation O or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and (ii) the
Bank has no outstanding Loans to any Affiliate that are in violation of Federal Reserve Regulation W.         
   33   

4.19.  Community Reinvestment Act Compliance . The Bank and its Subsidiaries are in compliance in
all material respects with the applicable provisions of the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 and the regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively,  CRA ) and the Bank has received a CRA rating of at least  satisfactory 
from the OTS, in its most recently completed examination, and the Bank has no knowledge of the existence of any fact or circumstance or set of facts or circumstances which could reasonably be expected to result in the Bank s failing to be in
compliance in all material respects with such provisions or having its current rating lowered.      4.20.  Labor Matters . Neither the
Bank nor any of its Subsidiaries is a party to or is bound by or is currently negotiating any collective bargaining agreement, contract or other agreement or understanding with a labor union or labor organization. Neither the Bank nor any of its
Subsidiaries is the subject of a proceeding asserting that it or any such Subsidiary has committed an unfair labor practice (within the meaning of the National Labor Relations Act) or seeking to compel the Bank or any such Subsidiary to bargain with
any labor organization as to wages or conditions of employment, nor, to the best of each Seller s knowledge, is any such proceeding threatened, and there is no strike or other material labor dispute or disputes involving it or any of its
Subsidiaries pending, or to the best of each Seller s knowledge, threatened.      4.21.  Derivative Instruments and Transactions .
 Section 4.21  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule sets forth each Derivative Transaction to which the Bank is currently a party thereto. Except as would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse
Effect on the Bank:      (a) All Derivative Transactions whether entered into for the account of the Bank or any of its
Subsidiaries or for the account of a customer of the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries, (i) were entered into in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice and in accordance with prudent banking practice and applicable rules,
regulations and policies of all applicable Governmental Authorities and with counterparties believed to be financially responsible at the time, (ii) are legal, valid and binding obligations of the Bank or one of its Subsidiaries and, to the
knowledge of the Bank, each of the counterparties thereto and (iii) are in full force and effect and enforceable in accordance with their terms. The Bank or its Subsidiaries and, to the knowledge of the Bank, the counterparties to all such
Derivative Transactions, have duly performed, in all material respects, their obligations thereunder to the extent that such obligations to perform have accrued. To the knowledge of the Bank, there are no material breaches, violations or defaults or
allegations or assertions of such by any party pursuant to any such Derivative Transactions.      (b) For purposes of this
Agreement, the term   Derivative Transaction   means any swap transaction, option, warrant, forward purchase or sale transaction, futures transaction, cap transaction, floor transaction or collar transaction relating to one or more
currencies, commodities, bonds, equity securities, loans, interest rates, catastrophe events, weather-related events, credit-related events or conditions or any indexes, or any other  
       
   34   

similar transaction (including any option with respect to any of these transactions) or combination of any of these transactions, including collateralized
mortgage obligations or other similar instruments or any debt or equity instruments evidencing or embedding any such types of transactions, and any related credit support, collateral or other similar arrangements related to such transactions.
     4.22.  Investment Securities and Commodities .      (a) Except as would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on the Bank, each of the Bank and its Subsidiaries has
good title to all securities and commodities owned by it (except those sold under repurchase agreements or held in any fiduciary or agency capacity), free and clear of any Liens, except for any Liens securing advances in the ordinary course of
business from the FHLB of Atlanta, Georgia or the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, Virginia or as otherwise set forth in  Section 4.22  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule. Such securities and commodities are valued on the books of the Bank
in accordance with GAAP in all material respects.      (b) The Bank and its Subsidiaries and their respective businesses employ
investment, securities, commodities, risk management and other policies, practices and procedures which are prudent and reasonable in the context of such businesses.      4.23.  Asset Management Businesses . The Asset Management Businesses comprise the  asset management services  reportable operating segment of the Bank as set forth in the Bank s Condensed
Consolidated Financial Statements (including Note 5 thereto) of the Bank s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2008, as filed with the OTS. The Asset Management Businesses do not comprise any part of the
 retail banking  or  commercial banking  reportable operating segments of the Bank as set forth in the Bank s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (including Note 5 thereto) of the Bank s Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2008, as filed with the OTS. The Bank (other than the Asset Management Businesses) owns or has the valid right to use all of, and the Excluded Assets do not include any of, the systems or intellectual
property assets or rights or other material assets utilized in the Bank s operations (including such  retail banking  and  commercial banking  segments) other than the Asset Management Businesses. After giving effect to the
transfer of the Excluded Assets to Sellers as contemplated by  Section 7.9  hereof, immediately after the Closing the Bank will have and include all of the assets and rights (including by virtue of the leases described in
 Section 7.14(a)  and  7.14(b))  sufficient for the continued conduct of the Bank s business (other than the Excluded Assets) after the Closing in substantially the same manner as conducted prior to the Closing.      4.24.  Takeover Laws and Provisions . Sellers and the Bank have taken all necessary action as required to render inapplicable to this Agreement and
the transactions contemplated by this Agreement any Takeover Law or Takeover Provision applicable to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.         
   35   

ARTICLE V      REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES REGARDING THE PURCHASER      Except for purposes of  Article XI , no
representation or warranty of the Purchaser contained in this  Article V  (other than (i) the representations and warranties contained in  Section 5.2 , which shall be true and correct in all respects other than to a de minimis
extent and (ii) the representations and warranties contained in  Sections 5.1  and  5.8  which shall be true and correct in all material respects) will be deemed untrue, and the Purchaser will not be deemed to have breached a
representation or warranty, as a consequence of the existence of any fact, event or circumstance unless such fact, circumstance or event, individually or taken together with all other facts, events or circumstances inconsistent with any
representation or warranty contained in  Article V , has had or is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect with respect to the Purchaser (disregarding for these purposes all qualifications or limitations set forth in any
representations or warranties as to  materiality,   Material Adverse Effect  and words of similar import). Except: (i) as disclosed in, and reasonably apparent from, any of the Purchaser Reports filed with the SEC on or
after December 31, 2007 but prior to the date of this Agreement (excluding any disclosures set forth in any risk factor section and in any section relating to forward-looking, safe harbor or similar statements or to any other disclosures in
such Purchaser Reports to the extent they are cautionary, predictive or forward-looking in nature); or (ii) as disclosed in the like-numbered section of the disclosure schedule delivered by the Purchaser to the Bank contemporaneously with the
execution of this Agreement (the   Purchaser Disclosure Schedule  , it being agreed that, except as otherwise provided in the Purchaser Disclosure Schedule, disclosure of any item in any section of the Purchaser Disclosure Schedule
shall also be deemed disclosure with respect to any other section of  Article V  to the extent the relevance of such item to another section of  Article V  is reasonably apparent on its face), the Purchaser represents and warrants to the
Sellers as follows:      5.1.  Corporate Organization . The Purchaser is duly organized and validly existing as a bank holding company
under the laws of Delaware. The Purchaser has all requisite corporate power and authority to own, lease or operate all of its properties, rights and assets and to carry on its business as it is now being conducted, and is duly licensed or qualified
to do business in each jurisdiction in which the nature of the business conducted by it or the character or location of the properties, rights and assets owned, leased or operated by it makes such licensing or qualification necessary, except where
the failure to have such power or authority or to be so licensed or qualified would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Purchaser. The copy of the bylaws of the Purchaser which has
been made available to the Bank, is a true, correct and complete copy of such document as in full force and effect as of the date of this Agreement.      5.2.  Capitalization . The authorized capital stock of the Purchaser consists of 1,000,000,000 Purchaser Common Shares and 50,000,000 Purchaser Preferred Shares. As of November 15, 2008, there were
391,718,310 Purchaser Common Shares outstanding and 3,555,199 Purchaser Preferred Shares outstanding. As of November 15, 2008, no Purchaser Common Shares or Purchaser Preferred Shares were reserved for issuance except for shares reserved for
issuance upon exercise of options pursuant to employee and director stock plans of Purchaser or a Subsidiary of Purchaser and shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of warrants held by the United States Department of the Treasury. All of the
issued and  
       
   36   

outstanding Purchaser Common Shares have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid, nonassessable and free of preemptive rights, with no
personal liability attaching to the ownership thereof. The Stock Consideration has been duly authorized. At the Closing Date, the Stock Consideration will be validly issued, fully paid, nonassessable and free of preemptive rights, with no personal
liability attaching to the ownership thereof.      5.3.  Authority; No Violation . (a) (i) The Purchaser has full corporate
power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby, (ii) the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the consummation by the Purchaser of the transactions contemplated hereby
have been duly and validly approved by all necessary corporate action of the Purchaser, (iii) no other corporate or shareholder proceedings on the part of the Purchaser are necessary to approve this Agreement or to consummate the transactions
contemplated hereby and (iv) this Agreement has been duly and validly executed and delivered by the Purchaser and (assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the Sellers) constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Purchaser,
enforceable against the Purchaser in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement may be limited by the Bankruptcy and Equity Exception.      (b) Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Purchaser, nor the consummation by the Purchaser of the transactions contemplated hereby, nor compliance by the Purchaser with any of the terms or
provisions hereof, will (i) violate any provision of the certificate of incorporation, bylaws or similar governing documents of the Purchaser or any of the similar governing documents of any of its Subsidiaries or (ii) assuming that the
consents, approvals and waiting periods referred to in  Section 5.4  are duly obtained or satisfied, (x) violate any Law applicable to the Purchaser or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties, rights or assets,
or (y) violate, conflict with, result in a breach of any provision of or the loss of any benefit under, or require redemption or repurchase or otherwise require the purchase or sale of any securities, constitute a default under, result in the
termination of or a right of termination, modification or cancellation under, accelerate the performance required by, or result in the creation of any Lien (or have any of such results or effects upon notice or lapse of time, or both) upon any of
the respective properties, rights or assets of the Purchaser or any of its Subsidiaries under, any of the terms, conditions or provisions of any note, bond, mortgage, indenture, deed of trust, license, lease, agreement, contract, permit, concession,
franchise or other instrument or obligation to which the Purchaser or any of its Subsidiaries is a party, or by which they or any of their respective properties, rights, assets or business activities may be bound or affected, except (in the case of
 clause (ii)  above) for such violations, conflicts, breaches, defaults or other events which would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Purchaser.      5.4.  Consents and Approvals . Except for (i) the filing of applications and notices, as applicable, with the Federal Reserve Board under the
BHC Act and the approval of such applications and notices, (ii) the Chevy Chase Trust Required Consents, (iii) the ASB Capital Required Consents, (iv) the consents, authorizations, approvals, filings or exemptions in connection with
the rules or regulations of any applicable self-regulatory organization, in any such case relating to the regulation of broker-dealers, investment companies and investment advisors, (v) the consents, authorizations, approvals, filings or
exemptions in connection with the applicable provisions of insurance Laws and (vi) the consents, authorizations, approvals, filings  
       
   37   

and registrations of third parties which are not Governmental Authorities, the failure of which to obtain or make would not be reasonably expected to have,
individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Purchaser, no consents or approvals of, or filings or registrations with, any Governmental Authority or of or with any other third party by and on behalf of the Purchaser are
necessary in connection with the consummation by the Purchaser and the transactions contemplated hereby. No consents or approvals of, or filings or registrations with any Governmental Authority or of or with any other third party by and on behalf of
the Purchaser are necessary in connection with the execution and delivery by Purchaser of this Agreement. As of the date hereof, Purchaser is not aware of any reason why the necessary regulatory approvals and consents will not be received in order
to permit consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.      5.5.  Reports; Regulatory Matters . (a) The Purchaser and each
of its Subsidiaries has timely filed all reports, registrations and statements, together with any amendments required to be made with respect thereto, that it was required to file since December 31, 2005 with (i) the Federal Reserve Board,
(ii) the FDIC, (iii) the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC ), (iv) any state insurance commission or other state regulatory authority, (v) the SEC, and (vi) any Governmental Authority, and all other
reports and statements required to be filed by them since December 31, 2005, including any report or statement required to be filed pursuant to the laws, rules or regulations of the United States, or any Governmental Authority, and have paid
all fees and assessments due and payable in connection therewith. Except for normal examinations conducted by a Governmental Authority in the ordinary course of business of the Purchaser and its Subsidiaries, no Governmental Authority has initiated
since December 31, 2005 or has pending any proceeding, enforcement action or, to the knowledge of the Purchaser, investigation into the business, disclosures or operations of the Purchaser or any of its Subsidiaries. There is no unresolved
violation alleged by any Governmental Authority with respect to any report or statement relating to any examinations or inspections of the Purchaser or any of its Subsidiaries.      (b) Neither the Purchaser nor any of its Subsidiaries is subject to any cease- and-desist or other order or enforcement action issued by,
or is a party to any written agreement, consent agreement or memorandum of understanding with, or is a party to any commitment letter or similar undertaking to, or is subject to any order or directive by, or has been since December 31, 2005, a
recipient of any supervisory letter from, or has been ordered to pay any civil money penalty by, any Governmental Authority that currently restricts in any material respect the conduct of its business or that in any material manner relates to its
capital adequacy, its ability to pay dividends, its credit, risk management or compliance policies, its internal controls, its management or its business, other than those of general application that apply to similarly situated bank holding
companies or their Subsidiaries (each, a   Purchaser Regulatory Agreement  ), nor has the Purchaser or any of its Subsidiaries been advised since December 31, 2005 by any Governmental Authority that it is considering issuing,
initiating, ordering, or requesting any such Purchaser Regulatory Agreement.      (c) The Purchaser has previously made
available to the Bank an accurate and complete copy of each (i) final report, registration statement, prospectus and schedule filed with or furnished to the SEC by the Purchaser since December 31, 2005 pursuant to the Securities Act or the
Exchange Act and prior to the date of this Agreement (the   Purchaser Reports  ), and  
       
   38   

(ii) communication mailed by the Purchaser to its stockholders, in each case since December 31, 2005 and prior to the date of this Agreement. Neither
any Purchaser Report or communication, at the time filed, furnished or communicated (and, in the case of registration statements and proxy statements, on the dates of effectiveness and the dates of the relevant meetings, respectively), contained any
untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements made therein, in light of the circumstances in which they were made, not misleading, except that
information as of a later date (but before the date of this Agreement) shall be deemed to modify information as of an earlier date. As of the respective dates, all Purchaser Reports complied as to form in all material respects with the published
rules and regulations of the SEC with respect thereto.      5.6.  Community Reinvestment Act Compliance . Each of the Purchaser s
bank Subsidiaries is in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of the CRA and each of the Purchaser s bank Subsidiaries has received a CRA rating of at least  satisfactory  from the OCC, in its most
recently completed examination, and the Purchaser has no knowledge of the existence of any fact or circumstance or set of facts or circumstances which could reasonably be expected to result in any such Subsidiary failing to be in compliance in all
material respects with such provisions or having its current rating lowered.      5.7.  Financial Statements; Undisclosed Liabilities .
(a) The financial statements of the Purchaser and its Subsidiaries (including any related notes and schedules thereto) included in the Purchaser Reports complied as to form, as of their respective dates of filing with the SEC (or, if amended or
superseded by a subsequent filing prior to the date hereof, as of the date of such subsequent filing), in all material respects, with all applicable accounting requirements and with the published rules and regulations of the SEC, have been prepared
in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis during the periods involved (except as may be disclosed therein), and fairly present, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Purchaser and its Subsidiaries and the
consolidated results of operations, changes in stockholders  equity and cash flows of such companies as of the dates and for the periods shown (subject, in the case of unaudited statements, to normal year-end audit adjustments, none of which is
expected to be material, and to any other adjustments described therein, including the notes thereto), and have been prepared from, and are in accordance with, the books and records of the Purchaser and its Subsidiaries. The books and records of the
Purchaser and its Subsidiaries have been, and are being, maintained in all material respects in accordance with GAAP and any other applicable legal and accounting requirements and reflect only actual transactions.      (b) Except for (i) those liabilities that are fully reflected or reserved for in the consolidated balance sheet of the Purchaser
included in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008, as filed with the SEC or otherwise disclosed in the Purchaser Reports filed subsequent to the date of the filing of such quarterly financial statements and
prior to the date hereof, (ii) this Agreement, or (iii) liabilities incurred since September 30, 2008 in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, neither the Purchaser nor any of its Subsidiaries has incurred any
liability of any nature whatsoever (whether absolute, accrued or contingent or otherwise and whether due or to become due), either alone or when combined with all other liabilities of a type not described in  clause (i) ,  (ii)  or
 (iii) , which has had, or would be reasonably expected to have, a Material Adverse Effect on the Purchaser.         
   39   

(c) The records, systems, controls, data and information of the Purchaser and its
Subsidiaries are recorded, stored, maintained and operated under means that are under the exclusive ownership and direct control of the Purchaser or its Subsidiaries or accountants (including all means of access thereto and therefrom), except for
any non-exclusive ownership and non-direct control that would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the system of internal accounting controls described below in this  Section 5.7(c) . The Purchaser (x) has
implemented and maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act) to ensure that material information relating to the Purchaser, including its consolidated Subsidiaries, is made known to the chief
executive officer and the chief financial officer of the Purchaser by others within those entities, and (y) has disclosed, based on its most recent evaluation prior to the date hereof, to the Purchaser s outside auditors and the audit
committee of the Purchaser s Board of Directors (i) any significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act) which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the Purchaser s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information and (ii) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant
role in the Purchaser s internal controls over financial reporting. These disclosures were made in writing by management to the Purchaser s auditors and audit committee. As of the date hereof, there is no reason to believe that the
Purchaser s outside auditors, chief executive officer and chief financial officer will not be able to give the certifications and attestations required pursuant to the rules and regulations adopted pursuant to Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act, without qualification, when next due.      5.8.  Broker s Fees . Except for the Persons set forth in
 Section 5.8  of the Purchaser Disclosure Schedule, whose fees and expenses shall be paid by the Purchaser, neither the Purchaser nor any Subsidiary thereof nor any of their respective officers or directors has employed any broker or
finder or incurred any liability for any broker s fees, commissions or finder s fees in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.      5.9.  Absence of Certain Changes or Events . Since September 30, 2008, no event has occurred or circumstance has arisen which has had or would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the
aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Purchaser.      5.10.  Legal Proceedings . (a) Neither the Purchaser nor any of its
Subsidiaries is a party to any, and there are no pending or, to the best of the Purchaser s knowledge, threatened legal, administrative, arbitral or other proceedings, claims, actions or governmental or regulatory investigations of any nature
(excluding foreclosure or bankruptcy litigation initiated by Purchaser or its Subsidiaries arising in the ordinary course of managing the financial assets of Purchaser or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be) against or affecting the Purchaser or
any of its Subsidiaries or to which any of their assets are subject or challenging the validity or propriety of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and which would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a
Material Adverse Effect on the Purchaser.      (b) There is no injunction, order, award, judgment, settlement, decree, or
regulatory restriction imposed upon the Purchaser, any of its Subsidiaries or the assets of the Purchaser or any of its Subsidiaries which would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the
Purchaser.         
   40   

5.11.  Board Approval; No Shareholder Vote Required . (a) The board of directors of the
Purchaser has duly approved this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, including, without limitation, the Stock Consideration.      (b) No vote of the holders of the Purchaser Common Shares or the Purchaser Preferred Shares is necessary to approve and adopt this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, including, without limitation, the
Stock Consideration.      5.12.  Compliance With Applicable Law . The Purchaser and each of its Subsidiaries hold all licenses,
franchises, permits and authorizations which are necessary for the lawful conduct of their respective businesses under and pursuant to each, and have complied with and are not in default or violation of any, applicable Law relating to the Purchaser
or any of its Subsidiaries, except where the failure to hold such license, franchise, permit or authorization or such noncompliance, default or violation would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse
Effect on the Purchaser, and neither the Purchaser nor any of its Subsidiaries knows of, or has received notice of, any defaults or violations of applicable Law which would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material
Adverse Effect on the Purchaser.      5.13.  Financing . As of the Closing Date, the Purchaser will have available all funds necessary to
pay on the Closing Date the aggregate Cash Consideration, as adjusted pursuant to  Section 2.3  and all fees and expenses to be paid by the Purchaser pursuant to this Agreement.      5.14.  Approvals . As of the date of this Agreement, the Purchaser knows of no reason relating to it or its Subsidiaries why all regulatory
approvals from any Governmental Authority required to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby should not be obtained on a timely basis.      5.15.  Other Representations Relating to Purchaser s Shelf Registration .      (a)  No Registration
Required Under the Securities Act . Assuming the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Sellers contained in  Sections 3.3  and  3.4 , it is not necessary, in connection with the issuance and sale of the Stock
Consideration hereunder, to register the Stock Consideration under the Securities Act or any state securities laws.      (b)
 Purchaser Not an  Investment Company.   The Purchaser has been advised of the rules and requirements under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder (collectively, the
  Investment Company Act  ). The Purchaser is not, and after the consummation of the transactions contemplated herein will not be, an  investment company  within the meaning of the Investment Company Act and will conduct its
business in a manner so that it will not become subject to the Investment Company Act.      (c)  Well-Known Seasoned Issuer;
Form S-3 Eligibility . (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement and (ii) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto, if any, for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act (whether such
amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), the Purchaser was and is a  well-known  
       
   41   

seasoned issuer  as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. The Registration Statement is or will be at the time of filing an Automatic Shelf
Registration Statement. The Purchaser has not received from the SEC any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form and the Purchaser has not otherwise ceased to be
eligible to use the automatic shelf registration form.      (d)  Purchaser Not Ineligible Issuer . At the time of filing
the Registration Statement, the Purchaser was not and is not an  ineligible issuer  (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act), without taking account of any determination by the SEC pursuant to Rule 405 under the Securities Act
that it is not necessary under the circumstances that the Purchaser be considered an ineligible issuer.      (e)  Exchange Act
Registration; Listing of Purchaser Common Shares . The Purchaser Common Shares are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and are listed on the Trading Market, and Purchaser has taken no action designed to, or likely to
have the effect of, terminating the registration of the Purchaser Common Shares under the Exchange Act or delisting the Purchaser Common Shares from the Trading Market, nor has the Purchaser received any notification that the SEC or the Trading
Market is contemplating terminating such registration or listing. The Purchaser shall cause the Purchaser Common Shares received by the Sellers under this Agreement to be listed on the Trading Market prior to the effectiveness of the Registration
Statement and shall use its reasonable best efforts to maintain the continued listing of the Purchaser Common Shares.      ARTICLE VI
     COVENANTS RELATING TO CONDUCT OF BUSINESS      6.1.  Conduct of Business Prior to the Closing Date . Except as otherwise expressly contemplated or permitted by this Agreement or with the prior written consent of the Purchaser, during the period from the date
of this Agreement to the Closing Date, the Bank shall, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to, (i) conduct its business only in the ordinary course consistent with past practice ( provided , that no action by the Bank or its
Subsidiaries with respect to matters specifically addressed by any provision of  Section 6.2  shall be deemed a breach of this  clause (i)  unless such action constitutes a breach of such provision of  Section 6.2 ),
(ii) use reasonable best efforts to maintain and preserve intact its business organization, and maintain its rights, authorizations, franchises and other authorizations issued by Governmental Authorities and retain the services of its key
officers and key employees and (iii) take no action that is intended to or which would reasonably be expected to adversely affect or materially delay the receipt of any approvals of any Governmental Authority required to consummate the
transactions contemplated hereby.         
   42   

6.2.  Bank Forbearances . Except as expressly contemplated or permitted by this Agreement or as set
forth in  Section 6.2  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule, during the period from the date of this Agreement to the Closing Date, the Bank shall not, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, without the prior written consent of the
Purchaser:      (a) (i) adjust, split, combine or reclassify any capital stock or other equity interest; (ii) set any
record or payment dates for the payment of any dividends or distributions on its capital stock or other equity interest or make, declare or pay any dividend or make any other distribution on, or directly or indirectly redeem, purchase or otherwise
acquire, any shares of its capital stock or other equity interest or any securities or obligations convertible (whether currently convertible or convertible only after the passage of time or the occurrence of certain events) into or exchangeable or
exercisable for any shares of its capital stock or other equity interest or stock appreciation rights or grant any Person any right to acquire any shares of its capital stock or other equity interest, other than (A) regular quarterly cash
dividends on Bank Preferred Stock equal to the rate paid during the fiscal quarter immediately preceding the date hereof with record and payment dates consistent with past practice; (B) cash dividends on PCAP Preferred Stock consistent with
past practice; (C) dividends paid by any of the Subsidiaries of the Bank so long as such dividends are only paid to the Bank or any of its other wholly owned Subsidiaries other than to any Subsidiary which is an Excluded Asset; and (D) as
contemplated by  Sections 7.9 ,  7.10  and  7.11 ; or (iii) issue or commit to issue any additional shares of capital stock or other equity interest, or any securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for, or any
rights, warrants or options to acquire, any additional shares of capital stock or other equity interest;      (b) enter into any
new line of business or change its material lending, investment, underwriting, risk and asset liability management and other material banking and operating policies in any material respect, except as required by applicable Law or by policies imposed
by a Governmental Authority;      (c) sell, transfer, pledge, lease, grant, license, mortgage, encumber or otherwise dispose of
any of its material rights, assets or properties or cancel, release or assign any material amount of indebtedness to any Person or any claims held by any Person, except (i) sales of Loans in the ordinary course of business consistent with past
practice, (ii) and sales of investment securities subject to repurchase in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, (iii) as expressly required by the terms of any contracts or agreements in force at the date of this
Agreement, (iv) pledges of assets to secure deposits or customer balances accepted in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice or (v) as contemplated by  Sections 7.9 ,  7.10  and  7.11 ;      (d) other than (i) purchases of securities issued by U.S. government-sponsored enterprises and (ii) acquisitions or investments
made in a fiduciary capacity in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, make any acquisition of or investment in any other Person, by purchase or other acquisition of stock or other equity interests, by merger, consolidation,
asset purchase or other business combination;      (e) except as required by Law or the terms of any Plan or agreement in effect
on September 1, 2007 and disclosed in  Section 4.10(a)  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule or as expressly contemplated by this Agreement (including without limitation, as contemplated by  Section 6.2(e)  of the Bank Disclosure
Schedule or  Sections 7.3(c) ,  7.3(e)  and  7.3(f) ), (i) pay any bonuses or incentive compensation; (ii) loan or advance any money or other property to, or sell, transfer or lease any properties, rights or assets to, any
current Bank Employees, other than loans or advances to Bank Employees who are customers of the Bank on arms-length terms generally available to unaffiliated customers of the Bank; (iii) establish, adopt, enter into, amend, terminate or grant
any waiver or consent under any Plan or any plan, agreement, program, policy, trust,  
       
   43   

fund or other arrangement that would be a Plan if it were in existence as of the date of this Agreement; (iv) grant any equity or equity-based awards;
(v) effectuate any layoffs of Bank Employees without compliance in all material respects with the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act of 1988, as amended, and any similar state or local law or regulation; (vi) increase any
compensation or employee benefit or pay any amounts not required by any current plan or accelerate the vesting of any compensation or benefit, other than annual increases in base salary pursuant to the Bank s customary review process in the
ordinary course consistent with past practice for Bank Employees who are not party to a change-in-control agreement; or (vii) take, or permit to be taken, any action that would require the funding or increase the funding, of any Plan or related
trust (or similar funding vehicle);      (f) (i) make, or commit to make, any capital expenditures in excess of
(A) $1,000,000 per project or related series of projects or (B) $5,000,000 in the aggregate or (ii) incur any material indebtedness for borrowed money or assume, guarantee, endorse or otherwise as an accommodation become responsible for
obligations of any other Person (other than deposits and similar liabilities in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice or indebtedness to the FHLB of Atlanta, Georgia or the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, Virginia under the
Bank s established borrowing facilities in each case in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice);      (g) file an application for the opening, relocation or closing of any, or open, relocate or close any, branch office, loan production or servicing facility or other real property;      (h) (i) commence or settle any claim, action or proceeding except settlements involving only monetary remedies not in excess of
$500,000 for any individual claim, action or proceeding or $5,000,000 in the aggregate, other than the commencement of any such claim, action or proceeding in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice or (ii) waive or
release any material rights or claims, or agree or consent to the issuance of any injunction, decree, order or judgment restricting or otherwise affecting its business or operations;      (i) adopt or implement any amendment of its federal charter, bylaws or similar governing documents, or enter into a plan of consolidation,
merger, share exchange, share acquisition, reorganization or complete or partial liquidation with any Person , or a letter of intent, memorandum of understanding or agreement in principle with respect thereto;      (j) except as required by applicable Law, materially change its investment securities portfolio policy or its gap position, or the manner
in which the portfolio is classified or reported;      (k) except as required by applicable Law, make any material changes in
its policies and practices with respect to (i) underwriting, pricing, originating, acquiring, selling, servicing, or buying or selling rights to service Loans or (ii) its hedging practices and policies;      (l) convey, contribute, distribute, assign or otherwise transfer any Loans out of the Bank other than mortgage loans in the ordinary
course of business consistent with past practice;         
   44   

(m) make any material changes in its methods, practices or policies of financial or Tax
accounting, except as may be required under applicable Law or GAAP, in each case as approved in writing by the Bank s independent public accountants;      (n) except as required by applicable Law, make, change or rescind any express or deemed material Tax election, file any amended Tax Returns (other than a claim for refund of Taxes previously paid), grant any power of
attorney with respect to Taxes, settle or compromise any material Tax liability of the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries, agree to an extension or waiver of the statute of limitations with respect to the assessment or determination of Taxes of the
Bank or any of its Subsidiaries, enter into any closing agreement with respect to any material Tax or surrender any right to claim a material Tax refund;      (o) (i) amend or otherwise modify, except in the ordinary course of business, or knowingly violate in any material respect the terms of any Bank Contract or enter into any Contract that would be a Bank Contract
if in existence as of the date hereof, or (ii) create, renew or amend any Contract or, except as may be required by applicable Law, other binding obligation of the Bank or its Subsidiaries containing (A) any material restriction on the
ability of it or its Subsidiaries to conduct its business as it is presently being conducted or (B) any material restriction on the ability of the Bank or its Subsidiaries to engage in any type of activity or business;      (p) transfer ownership, or grant any license or other rights, to any person or entity of or in respect of any material Proprietary Rights,
other than grants of non-exclusive licenses pursuant to license agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice;      (q) take any action or willfully fail to take any action that is intended or may reasonably be expected to result in any of the conditions to the Closing set forth in  Article IX  not being satisfied; or
     (r) agree to, or make any commitment to, take any of the actions prohibited by this  Section 6.2 .      6.3.  No Fundamental Purchaser Changes . Except as expressly contemplated or permitted by this Agreement, or as required by applicable Law, during
the period from the date of this Agreement to the Closing Date, the Purchaser shall not, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, without the prior written consent of the Sellers (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed),
(i) amend, repeal or otherwise modify its bylaws in a manner that would materially and adversely affect the Bank, the stockholders of the Bank or the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, (ii) take any action or willfully fail to
take any action that is intended or may reasonably be expected to result in any of the conditions to the Closing set forth in  Article IX  not being satisfied, (iii) in the case of the Purchaser only, declare or pay any extraordinary or
special dividends on or make any other extraordinary or special distributions in respect of any of its capital stock, or (iv) agree to, or make any commitment to, take any of the actions prohibited by this  Section 6.3 .   
     
   45   

6.4.  No Solicitation .      (a) Prior to the Closing Date, or until this Agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms, Sellers shall not, and Sellers shall
cause the Bank not to, and Seller shall use all reasonable efforts to cause Sellers  and the Bank s respective officers, employees, directors, agents or representatives not to, directly or indirectly, solicit or initiate discussions or
engage in negotiations with, or provide information (other than publicly available information) to, or authorize any financial advisor or other Person to solicit or initiate discussions or engage in negotiations with, or provide information to, any
Person (other than Purchaser or a representative of Purchaser) concerning any potential sale of capital stock of, or merger, consolidation, combination, sale of assets, reorganization or other similar transaction involving the Bank.      (b) Sellers, the Bank and its Subsidiaries shall immediately cause and cause to be terminated any existing discussions or negotiations
with any Persons (other than Purchaser) conducted heretofore with respect to any of the foregoing. Sellers agree to enforce their rights under, and agree not to, and to cause the Bank and its Subsidiaries not to, release any third party from, the
confidentiality and standstill provisions of any agreement to which the Bank or its Subsidiaries is or may become a party, and shall immediately take all steps necessary to terminate any approval that may have been heretofore given under any such
provisions authorizing any person to make any potential sale of capital stock of, or merger, consolidation, combination, sale of assets, reorganization or other similar transaction involving the Bank or its Subsidiaries.      6.5.  Taxes . The tax sharing agreement currently in effect among Sellers and the Bank (the   Tax Sharing Agreement  ) shall
terminate on or prior to the Closing Date and there shall be no further liability of the Bank or the Sellers under such agreement (whether for the current year, a future year, or a past year). Notwithstanding any other provision contained herein,
neither the Bank nor any of its Subsidiaries shall make any further payments pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement after the date hereof.      6.6.  Related Party Agreements . (a)  Section 6.6(a)  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule lists contracts between the Bank or the Bank s Subsidiaries, on the one hand, and a Seller or an Affiliate of a Seller, on the
other hand which shall survive the Closing Date (the   Surviving Related Party Agreements  ). The Purchaser hereby acknowledges that (i) the terms of the Surviving Related Party Agreements are fair and reflect arms-length
negotiations, and (ii) the Purchaser will take all action necessary to cause the Bank to continue to honor the Surviving Related Party Agreements in accordance with their terms, following the Closing Date.      (b)  Section 6.6(b)  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule lists contracts between the Bank or the Bank s Subsidiaries, on the
one hand, and a Seller or an Affiliate of a Seller, on the other hand which shall terminate on or prior to the Closing Date (the   Terminated Related Party Agreements  ). On or prior to the Closing Date, the Sellers will use their
reasonable best efforts to terminate or cause to be terminated the Terminated Related Party Agreements. To the extent that a Terminated Related Party Agreement cannot be terminated prior to the Closing Date, the Purchaser will cooperate, at
Seller s sole expense, in good faith with the Sellers to terminate such Terminated Related Party Agreement as soon as reasonably practicable following the Closing Date.         
   46   

6.7.  Reasonable Efforts .      (a) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Sellers and the Purchaser will use reasonable efforts to take, or cause to
be taken, in good faith, all actions, and to do, or cause to be done, all things necessary, proper or desirable, or advisable under applicable Laws, so as to permit consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby on or before December 31,
2008, to the extent reasonably possible, and each will cooperate fully with, and furnish information to, the other party to that end.      (b) The Purchaser will execute and deliver, or cause to be executed and delivered, by or on behalf of the Bank, at or prior to the Closing Date, and other instruments required for the due assumption of the Bank s
outstanding debt, guarantees, securities, and (to the extent informed of such requirement by the Bank) other agreements to the extent required by the terms of such debt, guarantees, securities or other agreements.      6.8.  Takeover Laws and Provisions . No party will take any action that would cause the transactions contemplated hereby to be subject to
requirements imposed by any Takeover Law and each of them will take all necessary steps within its control to exempt (or ensure the continued exemption of) those transactions from, or if necessary challenge the validity or applicability of, any
applicable Takeover Law, as now or hereafter in effect. No party will take any action that would cause the transactions contemplated hereby not to comply with any Takeover Provisions and each of them will take all necessary steps within its control
to make those transactions comply with (or continue to comply with) the Takeover Provisions.      6.9.  Section 409A . The Bank and
its Subsidiaries, as applicable, shall amend, with the prior consent of the Purchaser, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, prior to the earlier of (i) the Closing Date and (ii) December 31, 2008, each non-qualified
deferred compensation plan (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code) of the Bank and its Subsidiaries to comply with, or to cause such plans not to be subject to, Section 409A of the Code and the regulations thereunder.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Bank and its Subsidiaries, as applicable, shall amend, with the prior consent of the Purchaser, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, prior to the earlier of (i) the Closing Date and
(ii) December 31, 2008, each compensation arrangement such that each change-in-control agreement complies with the short term deferral rule under Section 409A by, among other things, (a) providing that all severance that could be
payable to a Bank employee shall be paid in a lump sum within two and a half months of the qualifying  separation from service  within the meaning of Section 409A, (b) requiring the employee to provide notice to the Bank of the
existence of the material modification to the employee s detriment within 90 days of the initial existence of the modification, (c) adding a period of at least 30 days following the Bank s receipt of such notice during which the Bank
may remedy the modification and not be required to pay the amount and (d) requiring the employee to resign within no more than two years after the initial existence of the initial modification arising without the consent of the employee.
        
   47   

ARTICLE VII      ADDITIONAL AGREEMENTS      7.1.  Regulatory Matters . (a) Subject to the other provisions of this
Agreement, the parties hereto shall cooperate with each other and use reasonable best efforts to prepare and file promptly all necessary documentation, to effect all applications, notices, petitions and filings, to obtain as promptly as practicable
all permits, consents, approvals and authorizations of all third parties and Governmental Authorities which are necessary or advisable to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and to comply with the terms and conditions of all
such permits, consents, approvals and authorizations of all such third parties and Governmental Authorities. The Bank and the Purchaser shall have the right to review in advance, and to the extent practicable each will consult the other on, in each
case subject to applicable Laws, all the information relating to the other party and any of its respective Subsidiaries, that appears in any filing made with, or written materials submitted to, any third party or any Governmental Authority in
connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. In exercising the foregoing right, each of the parties hereto shall act reasonably and as promptly as practicable. The parties hereto agree that they will consult with each other with
respect to the obtaining of all permits, consents, approvals and authorizations of all third parties or Governmental Authorities necessary or advisable to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and each party will keep the other
reasonably apprised of the status of matters relating to consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing contained herein shall be deemed to require Purchaser to take any action, or commit to take any
action, or agree to any condition or restriction in connection with obtaining the foregoing permits, consents, approvals and authorizations of third parties or Governmental Authorities, that would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse
effect on Purchaser (after giving effect to the transactions contemplated hereunder) (a   Materially Burdensome Regulatory Condition  ).      (b) The Purchaser and the Bank shall promptly advise each other upon receiving any communication from any Governmental Authority whose consent or approval is required for consummation of the transactions contemplated
by this Agreement which causes such party to believe that there is a reasonable likelihood that any Requisite Regulatory Approval will not be obtained or that the receipt of any such approval will be materially delayed or conditioned.      7.2.  Access to Information . (a) Upon reasonable notice and subject to applicable Laws relating to the exchange of information, the Bank
shall, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to, afford to the officers, employees, accountants, counsel and other representatives of the Purchaser access, during normal business hours during the period prior to the Closing Date, to all its
properties, books, contracts, commitments and records, and to its officers, employees, accountants, counsel and other representatives, in each case in a manner not unreasonably disruptive to the operation of the business of the Bank and its
Subsidiaries, and, during such period, the Bank shall, and shall cause its Subsidiaries to, make available to the Purchaser (i) a copy of each report, schedule, registration statement and other document filed or received by it during such
period pursuant to the requirements of the federal securities Laws or federal or state banking, mortgage lending, real estate or consumer finance or protection Laws (other than reports or documents which the Bank is not permitted to disclose under
applicable Law) and (ii) all other information concerning its business, properties and personnel as the Purchaser may  
       
   48   

reasonably request. Neither the Bank nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be required to provide access to or to disclose information where such access or
disclosure would jeopardize any attorney-client privilege or contravene any Law. The parties hereto will make appropriate substitute disclosure arrangements under circumstances in which the restrictions of the preceding sentence apply.   
  (b) Upon reasonable notice and subject to applicable Laws relating to the exchange of information, the Purchaser shall, and shall cause
its Subsidiaries to, provide such information regarding the Purchaser and its Subsidiaries as shall be reasonably necessary for the Bank to fulfill its obligations pursuant to this Agreement or that may be reasonably necessary for the Bank to
confirm that the representations and warranties of the Purchaser contained herein are true and correct and that the covenants of the Purchaser contained herein have been performed in all material respects. Neither the Purchaser nor any of its
Subsidiaries shall be required to disclose information where such access or disclosure would jeopardize any attorney-client privilege or contravene any Law. The parties hereto will make appropriate substitute disclosure arrangements under
circumstances in which the restrictions of the preceding sentence apply.      (c) The Purchaser shall hold all information
furnished by the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries or representatives pursuant to  Section 7.2(a)  in confidence to the extent required by, and in accordance with, the provisions of the Confidentiality Agreement, dated October 17, 2008,
between the Purchaser and the Bank (the   Confidentiality Agreement  ).      (d) No investigation by any of the
parties or their respective representatives shall constitute a waiver of or otherwise affect the representations, warranties, covenants or agreements of the others set forth herein.      7.3.  Employees; Employee Benefit Plans .      (a) As of the Closing Date, the Bank Employees who are employees of the Bank or a Subsidiary of the Bank at the Closing Date shall, so long as such Bank Employees remain employees of the Purchaser and its Affiliates
and unless and until such Bank Employees become eligible to participate in the employee benefit plans sponsored or maintained by the Purchaser (the   Purchaser Plans  ) in which similarly situated employees of the Purchaser
participate, to the same extent as similarly situated employees of the Purchaser so participate (it being understood that inclusion of Bank Employees in such employee benefit plans may occur at different times with respect to different plans),
continue to participate in the Plans in which such Bank Employees participated as of immediately prior to the Closing Date, excluding equity-based plans; excluding the B.F. Saul Company Employees  401(k) Plan and the B.F. Saul Company
Employees  Profit Sharing Retirement Plan; and excluding, for periods after all distributions have been made to participants as described in  Section 7.3(c)  hereof, the B.F. Saul Company Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan and the
deferred compensation arrangements identified in  Section 7.3(a)  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule (such B.F. Saul Company Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan and deferred compensation arrangements, collectively referred to herein as the
(  Bank Deferred Compensation Plans  )). From and after the Closing Date, the Purchaser shall cause the Bank and its Subsidiaries, and any successors thereto, to honor all Plans, including all employment, retention, severance and
change-in-control contracts, agreements and arrangements, listed in  Section 4.10(a)  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule subject to  Sections 7.3(c) ,  (d) ,  (e)  and  (f)  and excluding any Non-Bank Benefit
Plans.         
   49   

(b) With respect to each Purchaser Plan, for purposes of determining eligibility to
participate, vesting, entitlement to benefits (including determination of the amount of any benefit that is affected by seniority) and vacation entitlement (but not for accrual of benefits under any defined benefit pension plan or post-retirement
welfare benefit plan of the Purchaser), service with the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries (or of their respective predecessors) shall be treated as service with the Purchaser to the extent recognized by the Bank prior to the date of this Agreement
under comparable Plans;  provided ,  however , that such service shall not be recognized (i) to the extent that such recognition would result in a duplication of benefits or (ii) for purposes of any plan, program or arrangement
under which similarly situated employees of Purchaser and its Subsidiaries do not receive credit for such prior service. Such service also shall apply for purposes of satisfying any waiting periods, evidence of insurability requirements, or the
application of any pre-existing condition limitations with respect to any Purchaser Plan. Each Purchaser Plan shall waive pre-existing condition limitations to the same extent waived under the applicable Plan. The Bank Employees shall be given
credit for amounts paid under a corresponding benefit plan of the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries during the same period for purposes of applying deductibles, co-payments and out-of-pocket maximums as though such amounts had been paid in accordance
with the terms and conditions of the Purchaser Plan during the applicable plan year.      (c) On or prior to the Closing Date,
the Sellers shall cause the Bank Deferred Compensation Plans to be amended to provide that no further benefits shall accrue under such plans after the Closing Date (other than interest credited in accordance with the terms of such plans) and that
all vested benefits accrued under such plans through the Closing Date shall be paid to the participant, on the first Business Day following the later of January 1, 2009 or the Closing Date, in accordance with the requirements of the Bank
Deferred Compensation Plans, as so amended, and Section 409A of the Code and IRS Notice 2007-86.      (d) On the Closing
Date, the Bank shall cease to be an adopting employer under, and Bank Employees shall cease to participate in, the B.F. Saul Company Employees  Profit Sharing Retirement Plan and the B.F. Saul Company Employees  401(k) Plan. The
Purchaser shall maintain or establish a Purchaser Plan which is a tax-qualified defined contribution plan and shall permit Bank Employees who are employees of the Bank or a Subsidiary of the Bank on and after the Closing Date to participate in such
Purchaser Plan as soon as administratively practicable following the Closing Date. Subject to the Purchaser s receipt of a favorable determination letter from the Bank with respect to each of the B.F. Saul Company Employees  Profit Sharing
Retirement Plan and the B.F. Saul Company Employees  401(k) Plan, the Purchaser shall also permit such Bank Employees who receive an eligible rollover distribution from the B.F. Saul Company Employees  Profit Sharing Retirement Plan and
the B.F. Saul Company Employees  401(k) Plan to rollover such distribution (including loans) to such Purchaser Plan.      (e) On or prior to the earlier of (i) the Closing Date and (ii) December 31, 2008, the Bank shall enter into or amend the change-in-control contracts identified in  Section 4.10(a)  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule
to provide that a  constructive termination  for  
       
   50   

purposes of such contracts will be deemed to have occurred if following the Closing the executive party to such contract is required to work in a principal
office that is more than thirty (30) miles from the executive s principal office immediately prior to the date of such amendment to the contract.      (f) Subject to the following provisos the Board of Directors of the Bank may, at any time prior to Closing, determine that the  price per share  for purposes of Section 17(d) of the change-in-control
agreements is up to two times such per share book value, and any such determination by the Board of Directors is hereby agreed by the Purchaser;  provided , that such determination shall be subject to the CIC Share Amount to the extent it
applies in accordance with its terms; and  provided ,  further  that solely in the case of any Bank Employee who is party to such a change-in-control agreement and who is a  disqualified individual  (within the meaning of
Section 280G(c) of the Code and the regulations thereunder), any such determination in excess of one times such per share book value shall be subject to such Bank Employee s prior waiver in a form reasonably satisfactory to Purchaser that
complies with the shareholder approval requirements of Section 280G(2)(B) of the Code and the regulations thereunder of all  parachute payments  (within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code and the regulations thereunder)
payable to such Bank Employee to the extent that such parachute payments exceed three times such Bank Employee s  base amount  (within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(3) of the Code and the regulations thereunder) less $25,000
(assuming that no portion of any payment to be received such Bank Employee would be viewed as  reasonable compensation for personal services  within the meaning of Section 280G and the regulations thereunder).      (g) From time to time following Closing, B.F. Saul REIT shall pay to Purchaser, by wire transfer of immediately available funds, the CIC
Share Amount within 10 Business Days of any payment giving rise to a CIC Share Amount.      7.4.  Indemnification; Directors  and
Officers  Insurance .      (a) From and after the Closing, the Purchaser shall, and shall cause the Bank to, (as
applicable, the   D O Indemnifying Party  ) indemnify, defend and hold harmless each person who is now, or has been at any time prior to the date hereof or who becomes prior to the Closing, an officer, director, employee or agent
of the Bank or any of its Subsidiaries (the   D O Indemnified Parties  ) against all losses, claims, damages, costs, expenses (including attorneys  fees and expenses), liabilities or judgments or amounts that are paid in
settlement with the approval of the D O Indemnifying Party (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld) of or in connection with any threatened or actual claim, action, suit, proceeding or investigation, whether civil, criminal,
administrative or investigative, based in whole or in part on or arising in whole or in part out of the fact that such person is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Bank whether pertaining to any matter existing or occurring at or
prior to the Closing or any acts or omissions occurring or existing at or prior to the Closing and whether asserted or claimed prior to, or at or after, the Closing (  Indemnified Liabilities  ). Furthermore, the current provisions in
the Bank s respective federal charter and bylaws with respect to exculpation of director and officer liability and indemnification shall not be amended following the Closing if such amendment would materially and adversely affect the rights
thereunder of individuals who at any time prior to the Closing were directors, officers, employees or agents of the Bank in respect of actions or omissions occurring at or prior to the Closing.         
   51   

(b) Without limiting the foregoing, a D O Indemnified Party s right to
indemnification hereunder shall include the right to be paid expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition to the maximum extent permitted under applicable Law. If a claim for indemnification or advancement
of expenses hereunder is not paid in full within sixty (60) days after a written claim has been received by the D O Indemnifying Party, the D O Indemnified Party may at any time thereafter bring suit against the D O Indemnifying
Party to recover the unpaid amount of the claim, and if successful in whole or in part, the D O Indemnified Party shall also be entitled to be paid the expenses of prosecuting such claim.      (c) For a period of six years after the Closing, the Purchaser and its Affiliates shall cause to be maintained in effect the current
policies of directors  and officers  liability insurance maintained by the Bank;  provided , (i) that in no event shall Purchaser be required to expend per year of coverage more than 250% of the annual premium as of the date of
this Agreement; and (ii) that the Purchaser may substitute therefor policies of at least the same coverage and amounts containing terms and conditions which are no less advantageous to the D O Indemnified Parties with respect to matters
arising before and acts or omissions occurring or existing at or prior to the Closing. From the date hereof until the Closing, Sellers agree to keep the Bank s directors  and officers  liability insurance, financial institution bond,
and bankers  professional liability insurance in full force and effect, without lapse, and with pending or prior acts exclusion dates no later than those in the policies in effect on October 30, 2008.      (d) The provisions of this  Section 7.4  are intended to be for the benefit of, and shall be enforceable by, each D O
Indemnified Party, his or her heirs and his or her personal representatives and shall be binding on all successors and assigns of the Purchaser and the Bank.      (e) In the event the Purchaser, the Bank or any of their respective successors or assigns (i) consolidates with or merges into any
other person and shall not be the continuing or surviving corporation or entity in such consolidation or merger or (ii) transfers all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any person, then, and in either such case, to the extent
not otherwise occurring by operation of Law, proper provision shall be made so that the successors and assigns of the Purchaser or the Bank, as the case may be, shall assume the obligations set forth in this  Section 7.4 . The agreements
and covenants contained herein shall not be deemed to be exclusive of any other rights to which any Indemnified Party is entitled, whether pursuant to Law, contract or otherwise.      7.5.  Advice of Changes . The Purchaser and the Bank shall promptly advise the other of any change or event which, individually or in the aggregate
with other such changes or events, has or would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on it or which it believes would or would be reasonably likely to cause or constitute a material breach of any of its representations,
warranties or covenants contained herein;  provided ,  however , that any noncompliance with the foregoing shall not constitute the failure to be satisfied of a condition set forth in  Article IX  or give rise to any right of
termination under  Article X  unless the underlying breach shall independently constitute such a failure or give rise to such a right.         
   52   

7.6.  Further Assurances .      (a)  Additional Actions . In addition to the actions specifically provided for elsewhere in this Agreement, each party shall, and
shall cause each of its respective Subsidiaries to, use commercially reasonable efforts, prior to, at and after Closing to take, or cause to be taken, all actions, and to do, or cause to be done, all things necessary or advisable under applicable
laws, regulations and agreements to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the other agreements contemplated hereunder;  provided ,  however , that neither the Sellers nor the Purchaser (nor any of their respective
Subsidiaries) shall be obligated under this  Section 7.6  to pay any consideration, grant any concession or incur any additional liability to any third party other than ordinary and customary fees paid to a Governmental Authority.
     (b)  Cooperation . Without limiting the foregoing, prior to, at and after the Closing Date, each party shall, and
shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to, cooperate with the other parties without any further consideration to execute and deliver, or use commercially reasonable efforts to cause to be executed and delivered, all Conveyance and Assumption
Instruments and to make all filings with, and to obtain all consents of, any Governmental Authority or any other Person under any permit, license, agreement, indenture or other instrument (including any consents), and to take all such other actions
as such Party may reasonably be requested to take by the other Party from time to time, consistent with the terms of this Agreement and the other agreements contemplated hereunder, in order to effectuate the provisions and purposes of this Agreement
and the transfer of the Asset Management Businesses and the other agreements contemplated hereunder and the other transactions contemplated hereby and thereby.      (c)  Misallocations . In the event that at any time or from time to time (whether prior to, on or after Closing), a party or any of
its Subsidiaries shall receive or otherwise possess any asset or bear any expense that is allocated to any other Person pursuant to this Agreement or any other agreements contemplated hereunder, such party shall promptly transfer or reimburse, as
applicable, or cause its Subsidiary to transfer, or reimburse as applicable, such asset or expense to the Person so entitled thereto or such party s Subsidiary or designee.      7.7.  Transition Services .      (a) After the date hereof, the Purchaser and the Sellers shall cooperate in good faith to promptly determine whether a transition services agreement is necessary for the operation of the respective businesses of the Bank, the Bank s
Subsidiaries, any Seller or any Subsidiary of a Seller following the Closing and, if the parties determine that such an agreement is necessary, the parties shall use their reasonable best efforts to enter into, and cause their appropriate
Subsidiaries to enter into, such an agreement (on terms reasonably acceptable to both parties), which such agreement shall become effective on the Closing Date.      (b) To facilitate an orderly separation and transition of (i) the Excluded Assets from the business of the Bank and its Subsidiaries
and (ii) the business of the Bank and its Subsidiaries from the business of B.F. Saul REIT, each of B.F. Saul REIT, Derwood and the Purchaser has designated two key transition contacts in  Section 7.7  of the Bank Disclosure  
       
   53   

Schedule, who shall be primarily responsible for cooperation and coordination among the parties regarding the matters contemplated by this Agreement and the
other agreements contemplated hereunder. B.F. Saul REIT, Derwood and the Purchaser shall cause their respective key transition contacts to meet with their counterparts to establish procedures for such cooperation and coordination within thirty
(30) days after the Closing Date. The key transition contacts shall designate such other contacts in specific functional areas as they agree from time to time are necessary or appropriate. The key transition contacts and such other contacts may
be removed or replaced at any time by the Party (or key transition contacts) who designated them pursuant to this  Section   7.7.       7.8.  Covenants Regarding Tax Matters .      (a) The Purchaser agrees that it will not, and will not cause or
permit the Bank or the Bank s Subsidiaries to take any action on the Closing Date after the Closing that would reasonably be expected to give rise to any Tax liability of the Sellers in respect of any Tax period (or portion thereof) ending on
or before the close of business on the Closing Date (the   Pre- Closing Tax Periods  ). The Purchaser agrees that the Sellers are to have no liability for any Tax resulting from any action referred to in the preceding sentence by the
Purchaser or any Affiliate of the Purchaser, and agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Sellers and their Affiliates against any such Tax.      (b) The Sellers shall prepare or cause to be prepared and file or cause to be filed all Tax returns for the Bank and the Bank s Subsidiaries for all periods ending on or prior to the Closing Date that are filed
after the Closing Date (the   Short Tax Period  ). With respect to the Short Tax Period, (i) the Bank and the Bank s Subsidiaries shall close their books as of the end of the Short Tax Period and compute taxable income or
taxable loss for the Short Tax Period on the basis of the permanent books and records (including work papers) of the Bank and the Bank s Subsidiaries for such periods, (ii) the Sellers shall prepare the necessary Tax Returns, in accordance
with the requirements of the Code and in a manner consistent with the Tax Returns previously filed by the Bank and the Bank s Subsidiaries, and provide such information to the Purchaser for review and approval, (iii) such Tax Returns shall
be filed by the Sellers by the due date of such returns (taking into account any extensions), but only after review and approval by Purchaser (not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) and (iv) the Sellers shall pay the federal and any
applicable state income tax attributable to the Bank s and the Bank s Subsidiaries  taxable income for the Short Tax Period for which such Sellers would be liable, and shall also pay any entity-level Tax liability of the Bank and the
Bank s Subsidiaries for such Short Tax Period. To the extent permitted by applicable Law, the Sellers shall include any income, gain, loss, deduction or other tax items for such periods on their Tax returns in a manner consistent with the
Code ; provided, however  that the Purchaser agrees that it will not refuse to approve, or otherwise object to, Seller s mark-to-market adjustment on the $1.2 billion portion of the option ARM mortgage portfolio (identified as the option
ARMs included in Schedule 4.9(m) of the Bank Disclosure Schedule) (the   MTM Option ARMs  ) for the Pre-Closing Tax Periods.      (c) If the consolidated group of which the Bank is a member for any Pre- Closing Tax Period recognizes a loss in excess of $120 million as a result of a mark-to-market adjustment to the MTM Option ARMs and such loss
results in a refund or credit to, or a reduction in Taxes otherwise payable by, such consolidated group or such loss otherwise used to  
       
   54   

offset U.S. federal taxable income of such group (including in connection with a subsequent audit) (a   Utilized Mark-to-Market Loss  ), then
the Sellers shall make a payment in the amount of the Tax benefit attributable to such Utilized Mark-to-Market Loss to the Purchaser within 30 days of the date upon which the Utilized Market-Market Loss is otherwise definitely established and
accepted by the relevant Tax Authority. It is understood that the Sellers and the Bank may elect for any Pre-Closing Period to waive any carryback and only carryforward such losses. In addition, to the extent that such losses are available to the
Bank or the Purchaser for post-Closing years (without regard to any limitation on the use of such losses by the Bank or the Purchaser), such losses will not be considered Utilized Mark-to-Market Losses and no payment will be required under this or
any other section.      (d) The Purchaser and the Sellers shall furnish or cause to be furnished to each other, upon request, as
promptly as practicable, such information (including access to books and records) and assistance relating to the Bank and the Bank s Subsidiaries as is reasonably necessary for the preparation and filing of any Tax return, for determining
whether any payment is due to the Purchaser or the Bank pursuant to  Section 7.8(c)  hereof, for the preparation for any audit and for the prosecution or defense of any claim, suit or proceeding relating to any proposed adjustment. The
Purchaser and the Sellers agree to retain or cause to be retained all books and records pertinent to the Bank and the Bank s Subsidiaries until the applicable period for assessment under applicable law (giving effect to any and all extensions
or waivers) has expired, and to abide by or cause the abidance with all record retention agreements entered into with any Tax Authority. The Purchaser agrees to give or cause its Affiliates to give the Sellers reasonable notice prior to
transferring, discarding or destroying any such books and records relating to Tax matters and, if the Sellers so request, the Purchaser shall allow or cause its Affiliates to allow the Sellers, at the Sellers  cost and expense, to take
possession of such books and records. The Purchaser and the Sellers shall cooperate with each other in the conduct of an audit, filing of Tax Returns or other proceedings involving the Bank or any of the Bank s Subsidiaries for any Tax purposes
and each shall execute and deliver such powers of attorney and other documents as are necessary to carry out the intent of this subsection.      (e) If any Tax Authority notifies the Sellers, the Purchaser, the Bank, or any of the Bank s Subsidiaries of its intention to conduct an audit of the Bank or any of the Bank s Subsidiaries with respect to
any Tax Return filed by the Bank, any of the Bank s Subsidiaries, or the Sellers or allegedly required to be filed by the Bank or any of the Bank s Subsidiaries that relates or could reasonably be expected to relate to obligations of the
Bank, any of the Bank s Subsidiaries or the Sellers to pay Taxes associated with any Tax Period or to prosecute any claim, suit or proceeding relating to any proposed adjustment with respect to the Tax Period which, if successful, might result
in an indemnity payment pursuant to  Section 11.2(a)(iv) , the party hereto first receiving such notice shall notify the Purchaser, the Sellers  representative, and/or the Bank (as appropriate) in writing of such claim (a   Tax
Claim  ) within ten (10) days of receipt of any written notice from the Tax Authority, and shall give the Purchaser, the Sellers  representative, and/or the Bank such other information with respect thereto as may be reasonably
requested. With respect to any Pre-Closing Tax Claim, the Purchasers  representative may, at its own expense, participate in, but not control, the defense of any such claim, suit, action, litigation or proceeding (including any Tax audit). The
Sellers shall not settle or otherwise compromise any Tax Claim relating to a Pre-Closing Tax Period that affects the Bank, any of the Bank s Subsidiaries, or the Purchaser without the Purchasers  representative s prior written consent

55   

which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. With respect to any Post-Closing Tax Claim, the Sellers  representative may, at its own expense,
participate in, but not control, the defense of any such claim, suit, action, litigation or proceeding (including any Tax audit). The Purchaser, Bank or Bank s Subsidiaries shall not settle or otherwise compromise any Tax Claim relating to a
Post-Closing Tax Period that affects the Sellers, Bank, any of the Bank s Subsidiaries without the Sellers  representative s prior written consent which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.      (f) Pursuant to  Section 2.7 , all transfer, documentary, sales, use, stamp, registration and other such Taxes and fees
(including any penalties and interest) (  Transfer Taxes  ) incurred in connection with this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby shall be paid by the Purchaser when due (up to a maximum of $7 million), and any amount in
excess thereof shall be borne and paid by the Sellers. The Purchaser shall file all necessary Tax Returns and other documentation with respect to all such transfer, documentary, sales, use, stamp, registration and other such Taxes and fees (the
expense of which shall be borne and paid by the Purchaser to the extent that such expense, together with any Transfer Taxes for which the Purchaser is responsible pursuant to this Agreement, does not exceed a maximum of $7 million, with any amounts
in excess thereof to be borne and paid by the Sellers), and, if required by applicable Law, the Sellers shall join in the execution of any such Tax Returns and other documentation.      (g) To the extent permitted by Law, the Sellers, the Purchaser, the Bank, and the Bank s Subsidiaries, as applicable, shall close
each taxable period of the Bank and the Bank s Subsidiaries as of the close of the Closing Date. In the case of any taxable period that includes (but does not end on) the Closing Date (a   Straddle Period  ), the amount of any
income or gross receipts, Taxes of the Bank or the Bank s Subsidiaries for the Pre-Closing Tax Period shall be determined based on an interim closing of the books as of the close of business on the Closing Date. Real, personal and intangible
property Taxes (  Property Taxes  ) of the Bank or the Bank s Subsidiaries allocable to the Pre-Closing Tax Period shall be equal to the amount of such Property Taxes for the entire Straddle Period multiplied by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the number of days during the Straddle Period that are in the Pre-Closing Tax Period and the denominator of which is the number of days in the Straddle Period.      7.9.  Distribution of Other Excluded Assets .      (a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, but subject to  Sections 7.10  and  7.11 , on or prior to the Closing Date, the Sellers shall cause the Bank to dividend, distribute, sell,
convey or otherwise transfer the Excluded Assets (including any cash or other property received from the proceeds of the sale or transfer of any of the Excluded Assets), in each case as the Bank and the Sellers shall agree following the date hereof,
following prior consultation with Purchaser. Prior to Closing, the Sellers shall provide the Purchaser with a schedule describing the recipient (which shall in any event be one or more Sellers) of each Excluded Asset, the manner in which each
Excluded Asset was transferred and the material economic terms associated with such transfer.      (b) All such dividends and
distributions shall be in compliance with  Section  2. 7 . To the extent any assets to be distributed pursuant to  Sections 7.9 ,  7.10 , and  7.11  are owned by a Subsidiary of the Bank, prior to the dividend or
distribution, the Bank shall cause any such Subsidiary to distribute the assets to be included in such dividend to the Bank.         
   56   

(c) Notwithstanding anything set forth herein, following the date hereof the parties
shall cooperate and use reasonable efforts to facilitate the transfer to Derwood of the Asset Management Businesses at or prior to Closing, even if any of the ASB Capital Required Consents or the Chevy Chase Trust Required Consents, as applicable,
have not been obtained as of such date, through entry into a servicing or agent arrangement under which Purchaser will continue to service certain client relationships on a basis consistent with the provisions set forth in  Section 7.10 
or  Section 7.11 , as applicable. Such arrangement shall be entered into only if permitted by applicable Law and the contracts or arrangements governing such client relationships, and only if otherwise agreed to by the parties hereto.
     7.10.  Distribution of Chevy Chase Trust . If the Bank and Derwood have not received the Chevy Chase Trust Required Consents by the
Closing Date, the Chevy Chase Trust Shares shall not be distributed as set forth in  Section 7.9(a)  and the following provisions shall apply;      (a) On the Closing Date, the parties will cause the Bank to issue to Derwood (i) a dividend consisting of the non-fiduciary portions of the business of Chevy Chase Trust as determined in good faith by Sellers and
Purchaser provided that no such dividend will be required if Sellers determine that such action would materially harm Chevy Chase Trust and its existing client relationships, or if either party hereto determines that such dividend would otherwise be
unduly burdensome, and (ii) a convertible note having the terms set forth in this  Section 7.10(a)  and otherwise in a form reasonably acceptable to the Purchaser and Derwood (the   Chevy Chase Trust Note  ). The Chevy
Chase Trust Note will be non-recourse to the Bank and secured solely by the Chevy Chase Trust Shares. On the date (the   Chevy Chase Trust Distribution Date  ) as of which the Bank and Derwood have received the Chevy Chase Trust
Required Consents, the aggregate principal amount of the Chevy Chase Trust Note will be automatically converted into the Chevy Chase Trust Shares. If the Chevy Chase Trust Required Consents are not obtained by the date which is 120 days after the
Closing Date, Purchaser shall have the option to purchase the Chevy Chase Trust Note for a price equal to the tangible book value of the underlying Chevy Chase Trust Shares and upon such purchase the aggregate principal amount of the Chevy Chase
Trust Note will be automatically converted into the Chevy Chase Trust Shares. No interest will be payable on the Chevy Chase Trust Note.      (b) Derwood, the other Sellers and the Purchaser will use their reasonable best efforts to take, or cause to be taken, in good faith, all actions, and to do, or cause to be done, all things necessary, proper or
desirable, or advisable under applicable Laws, so as to obtain the Chevy Chase Trust Required Consents (or, if applicable, to sell the Chevy Chase Trust Note or the Chevy Chase Trust Shares to a third party) as promptly as practicable, and each will
cooperate fully with, and furnish information to, the other party to that end.      (c) At or prior to the Closing, either or
both of William F. McSweeney and Walter R. Fatzinger, Jr. will resign as directors of Chevy Chase Trust.         
   57   

(d) Until the earlier of (I) 120 days after the Closing Date or (II) the Chevy Chase
Trust Distribution Date, Purchaser covenants that, without prior written consent from Derwood and/or without the concurrence or ratification of the Board of Directors of Chevy Chase Trust to do otherwise, which consent, concurrence or ratification,
as applicable, will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, Purchaser will and will cause the Bank and its Subsidiaries to:      (i) ensure that John R. Whitmore, B. Francis Saul II, Thomas H. McCormick, and Peter M. Welber remain members of the Board of Directors of Chevy Chase Trust, as it exists on the date hereof;  provided  that, if any of the individuals
named in the foregoing clause shall resign or be removed for cause, or be unable to serve by reason of death or disability, as a director of Chevy Chase Trust, Derwood shall, within thirty (30) days of such event, notify Purchaser and the Bank
in writing of a replacement, and the Purchaser shall, and shall cause the Bank to, take such steps as may be necessary to elect such qualified replacement (who shall be reasonably acceptable to Purchaser) to fill the unexpired term of such director;
     (ii) operate and conduct the business of Chevy Chase Trust in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice
as a separate, standalone business; and      (iii) cause the books, records and accounts of Chevy Chase Trust to be maintained
in a manner as will allow for (A) the segregation, identification and accounting for assets, revenues and expenses of Chevy Chase Trust in a manner that is in conformance with GAAP and on a basis consistent with the historical practices of
Chevy Chase Trust prior to the Closing and (B) the distribution to Derwood (through its acquisition of the Chevy Chase Trust Shares), as of the Chevy Chase Trust Distribution Date (if such date occurs), of all current assets of Chevy Chase
Trust, including all cash, cash equivalents and receivables associated with the operations of Chevy Chase Trust prior to the Chevy Chase Trust Distribution Date, net of any applicable Taxes and previously unreimbursed expenses to Purchaser
associated with Chevy Chase Trust.      (e) Without limiting the generality of  Section 7.10(d) , until the earlier of
(I) 120 days after the Closing Date or (II) the Chevy Chase Trust Distribution Date, without prior written consent from Derwood and/or without the concurrence or ratification of the Board of Directors of Chevy Chase Trust, which consent,
concurrence or ratification, as applicable, will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, Purchaser will not (and will cause the Bank not to) cause or permit Chevy Chase Trust to:      (i) take any action that is intended or would reasonably be expected to result in (A) any of the consents or approvals necessary to
distribute the Chevy Chase Trust Shares to Derwood as contemplated in  Section 9.1  or  9.3  not being obtained or (B) the Bank not distributing the Chevy Chase Trust Shares to Derwood for any other reason;      (ii) enter into any transaction with Affiliates unless such arrangement: (1) is on market terms; or (2) is on terms no less
favorable to Chevy Chase Trust than those obtainable from a party who is not an Affiliate of Purchaser;         
   58   

(iii) adjust, split, combine or reclassify any capital stock or other equity interest;
     (iv) (A) set any record or payment dates for the payment of any dividends or distributions on their capital stock or
other equity interest or make, (B) declare or pay any dividend or make any other distribution on, or directly or indirectly redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire, any shares of their capital stock or other equity interest or any securities or
obligations convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any shares of their capital stock or other equity interest or stock appreciation rights or grant any person any right to acquire any shares of their capital stock or other equity
interest, other than as contemplated by  Section 7.9  or  7.10  of this Agreement or (C) issue or commit to issue any additional shares of capital stock or other equity interest, or any securities convertible into or exercisable
or exchangeable for, or any rights, warrants or options to acquire, any additional shares of capital stock or other equity interest (in the case of clauses (A) and (B), other than any dividend in an amount not to exceed any Taxes of or
attributable to Chevy Chase Trust for which the Purchaser may be liable);      (v) enter into any new line of business or change
their material investment, risk and asset liability management and other material operating policies in any material respect, except as required by Law or by policies imposed by a Governmental Authority;      (vi) sell, transfer, mortgage, encumber or otherwise dispose of any of their material rights, assets or properties, except (A) sales
of investment securities in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, (B) as expressly required by the terms of any contracts or agreements in force at the date of this Agreement or (C) pledges of assets to secure
public deposits accepted in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice;      (vii) make any acquisition of or
investment in any other Person, by purchase or other acquisition of stock or other equity interests (other than in a fiduciary capacity in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice), or by merger, consolidation, asset purchase or
other business combination;      (viii) except as required by Law (A) loan or advance any money or other property to, or
sell, transfer or lease any properties, rights or assets to, any employees; (ii) establish, adopt, enter into, amend, terminate or grant any waiver or consent under any plan, agreement, program, policy, trust, fund or other arrangement that
would be a plan if it were in existence as of the date of this Agreement; (iii) grant any equity or equity-based awards; or (iv) effectuate any layoffs of employees;      (ix) (A) make, or commit to make, any capital expenditures in excess of (A) $100,000 per project or related series of projects
or (B) $1,000,000 in the aggregate or (ii) incur any material indebtedness for borrowed money or assume, guarantee, endorse or otherwise as an accommodation become responsible for the long-term indebtedness of any other person (other than
deposits and similar liabilities in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, and indebtedness under existing lines of credit and renewals or extensions thereof);         
   59   

(x) settle any claim, action or proceeding involving monetary damages in excess of
$100,000 for any individual claim, action or proceeding or $1,000,000 in the aggregate, or (ii) waive or release any material rights or claims, or agree or consent to the issuance of any injunction, decree, order or judgment restricting or
otherwise affecting their respective businesses or operations, other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice;      (xi) adopt or implement any amendment of their certificate of incorporation, certificate of formation, bylaws, limited liability company agreement or similar governing documents, or enter into a plan of consolidation,
merger, share exchange, share acquisition, reorganization or complete or partial liquidation with any person, or a letter of intent, memorandum of understanding or agreement in principle with respect thereto;      (xii) except as required by Law, make any material changes in its policies and practices with respect to their hedging practices and
policies;      (xiii) make any material changes in their methods, practices or policies of financial or Tax accounting, except
as may be required under Law or GAAP, in each case in consultation with the Bank s independent public accountants;      (xiv) take any action that would result in Chevy Chase Trust ceasing to qualify as an operating subsidiary of the Bank under applicable OTS regulations; or      (xv) agree to, or make any commitment to, take any of the actions prohibited by this  Section 7.10(e) .      (f) Notwithstanding anything set forth herein, following the Closing Date Purchaser shall be permitted to take any actions with respect to
Chevy Chase Trust it deems reasonably necessary to (i) comply with applicable Law or regulation or contractual obligations, (ii) maintain its regulatory status and standing, or (iii) avoid damage to its reputation or standing in the
community, or the incurrence of any liabilities. To the extent practicable under the circumstances, and in any event to the extent any such action is materially inconsistent with the provisions of  Sections 7.10(d)  or  (e) , Purchaser
shall use reasonable efforts to inform Derwood prior to taking such action.      (g) The parties hereto shall work together in
good faith and shall use their reasonable best efforts to provide that Chevy Chase Trust shall not be included in the consolidated group of the Purchaser for U.S. federal, state and local income tax purposes.         
   60   

7.11.  Distribution of ASB Capital . If the Bank and Derwood have not received the ASB Capital
Required Consents by the Closing Date, the ASB Capital Membership Interests shall not be distributed as set forth in  Section 7.9(a)  and the following provisions shall apply:      (a) On the Closing Date, the parties will cause the Bank to issue to Derwood or its designee a convertible note having the terms set forth
in this  Section 7.11(a)  and otherwise in a form reasonably acceptable to the Purchaser and Derwood (the   ASB Capital Note  ). The ASB Capital Note will be non-recourse to the Bank and secured solely by the ASB
Capital Membership Interests. On the date (the   ASB Capital Distribution Date  ) as of which the Bank and Derwood have received the ASB Capital Required Consents, the aggregate principal amount of the ASB Capital Note will be
automatically converted into the ASB Capital Membership Interests. If the ASB Capital Required Consents are not obtained by the date which is 120 days after the Closing Date, Purchaser shall have the option to purchase the ASB Capital Note for a
price equal to the tangible book value of the underlying ASB Capital Membership Interests and upon such purchase the aggregate principal amount of the ASB Capital Note will be automatically converted into the ASB Capital Membership Interests. No
interest will be payable on the ASB Capital Note.      (b) Derwood, the other Sellers and the Purchaser will use their
reasonable best efforts to take, or cause to be taken, in good faith, all actions, and to do, or cause to be done, all things necessary, proper or desirable, or advisable under applicable Laws, so as to obtain the ASB Capital Required Consents (or,
if applicable, to sell the ASB Capital Note or the ASB Capital Membership Interests to a third party) as promptly as practicable, and each will cooperate fully with, and furnish information to, the other party to that end.      (c) Until the earlier of (I) 120 days after the Closing Date or (II) the ASB Capital Distribution Date, Purchaser covenants that,
without prior written consent from Derwood and/or without the concurrence or ratification of the Board of Directors of ASB Capital to do otherwise, which consent, concurrence or ratification, as applicable, will not be unreasonably withheld or
delayed, Purchaser will and will cause the Bank and its Subsidiaries to:      (i) operate and conduct the business of ASB
Capital in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice as a separate, standalone business; and      (ii) cause
the books and records of ASB Capital to be maintained in a manner as will allow for (A) the segregation, identification and accounting for assets, revenues and expenses of ASB Capital in a manner that is in conformance with GAAP and on a basis
consistent with the historical practices of ASB Capital prior to the Closing and (B) the distribution to Derwood (through its acquisition of the ASB Capital Membership Interests), as of the ASB Capital Distribution Date (if such date occurs),
of all current assets of ASB Capital, including all cash, cash equivalents and receivables associated with the operations of ASB Capital prior to the ASB Capital Trust Distribution Date, net of any applicable Taxes and previously unreimbursed
expenses to Purchaser associated with ASB Capital.      (d) Without limiting the generality of  Section 7.11(c) ,
until the earlier of (I) 120 days after the Closing Date or (II) the ASB Capital Distribution Date, without prior written consent from Derwood and/or without the concurrence or ratification of the Board of Directors of ASB Capital, which
consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, Purchaser will not (and will cause the Bank not to) cause or permit ASB Capital to:      (i) take any action that is intended or would reasonably be expected to result in (A) any of the consents or approvals necessary to distribute ASB Capital to Derwood as contemplated in  Section 9.1  or
 9.3  not being obtained or (B) the Bank not distributing the ASB Capital Membership Interests to Derwood for any other reason;         
   61   

(ii) enter into any transaction with Affiliates unless such arrangement: (1) is on
market terms; or (2) is on terms no less favorable to ASB Capital than those obtainable from a party who is not an Affiliate of Purchaser;      (iii) adjust, split, combine or reclassify any capital stock or other equity interest;      (iv)
(A) set any record or payment dates for the payment of any dividends or distributions on their capital stock or other equity interest or make, (B) declare or pay any dividend or make any other distribution on, or directly or indirectly
redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire, any shares of their capital stock or other equity interest or any securities or obligations convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any shares of their capital stock or other equity interest or
stock appreciation rights or grant any person any right to acquire any shares of their capital stock or other equity interest, other than as contemplated by  Section 7.9  or  7.11  of this Agreement or (C) issue or commit to
issue any additional shares of capital stock or other equity interest, or any securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for, or any rights, warrants or options to acquire, any additional shares of capital stock or other equity
interest (in the case of clauses (A) and (B), other than any dividend in an amount not to exceed any Taxes of or attributable to ASB Capital for which the Purchaser may be liable);      (v) enter into any new line of business or change their material investment, risk and asset liability management and other material
operating policies in any material respect, except as required by Law or by policies imposed by a Governmental Authority;      (vi) sell, transfer, mortgage, encumber or otherwise dispose of any of their material rights, assets or properties, except (A) sales of investment securities in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, (B) as
expressly required by the terms of any contracts or agreements in force at the date of this Agreement or (C) pledges of assets to secure public deposits accepted in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice;      (vii) make any acquisition of or investment in any other Person, by purchase or other acquisition of stock or other equity interests
(other than in a fiduciary capacity in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice), or by merger, consolidation, asset purchase or other business combination;      (viii) except as required by Law (A) loan or advance any money or other property to, or sell, transfer or lease any properties,
rights or assets to, any employees; (ii) establish, adopt, enter into, amend, terminate or grant any waiver or consent under any plan, agreement, program, policy, trust, fund or other arrangement that would be a plan if it were in existence as
of the date of this Agreement; (iii) grant any equity or equity-based awards; or (iv) effectuate any layoffs of employees;         
   62   

(ix) (A) make, or commit to make, any capital expenditures in excess of
(A) $100,000 per project or related series of projects or (B) $1,000,000 in the aggregate or (ii) incur any material indebtedness for borrowed money or assume, guarantee, endorse or otherwise as an accommodation become responsible for
the long-term indebtedness of any other person (other than deposits and similar liabilities in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, and indebtedness under existing lines of credit and renewals or extensions thereof);
     (x) settle any claim, action or proceeding involving monetary damages in excess of $100,000 for any individual claim,
action or proceeding or $1,000,000 in the aggregate, or (ii) waive or release any material rights or claims, or agree or consent to the issuance of any injunction, decree, order or judgment restricting or otherwise affecting their respective
businesses or operations, other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice;      (xi) adopt or
implement any amendment of their certificate of incorporation, certificate of formation, bylaws, limited liability company agreement or similar governing documents, or enter into a plan of consolidation, merger, share exchange, share acquisition,
reorganization or complete or partial liquidation with any person, or a letter of intent, memorandum of understanding or agreement in principle with respect thereto;      (xii) except as required by Law, make any material changes in its policies and practices with respect to their hedging practices and
policies;      (xiii) make any material changes in their methods, practices or policies of financial or Tax accounting, except
as may be required under Law or GAAP, in each case in consultation with the Bank s independent public accountants; or      (xiv) agree to, or make any commitment to, take any of the actions prohibited by this  Section 7.11(d) .      (e) Notwithstanding anything set forth herein, following the Closing Date Purchaser shall be permitted to take any actions with respect to ASB Capital it deems reasonably necessary to (i) comply with applicable Law or regulation or
contractual obligations, (ii) maintain its regulatory status and standing, or (iii) avoid damage to its reputation or standing in the community, or the incurrence of any liabilities. To the extent practicable under the circumstances, and
in any event to the extent any such action is materially inconsistent with the provisions of  Sections 7.11(c)  or  (d) , Purchaser shall use reasonable efforts to inform Derwood prior to taking such action.      7.12.  License Agreement . As of the Closing Date, Derwood and the Purchaser shall enter into, and cause the Bank and the Bank s applicable
Subsidiaries to enter into, a license agreement on terms reasonably acceptable to both parties, under which Derwood or its designee will receive a perpetual, exclusive, sublicenseable, royalty-free license from the Purchaser and  
       
   63   

the Bank to use the  ASB Capital  and  Allegiance Real Estate  names (and any derivatives thereof). As of the Closing Date, Derwood and
the Purchaser shall enter into, and Purchaser shall cause the Bank and the Bank s applicable Subsidiaries to enter into, a license agreement on terms reasonably acceptable to both parties, under which Derwood will receive a perpetual,
exclusive, royalty-free license from the Purchaser and the Bank to use the  Chevy Chase Trust  name, provided that, if Sellers (or any of them) dispose of or transfer to any third party ownership of all or majority of the equity interests
of Chevy Chase Trust within the earlier of (a) two years following the Closing Date and (b) one year following the date on which Purchaser transitions the Bank from operating under the  Chevy Chase Bank  name, such license shall
not be transferable and shall terminate upon such disposition or transfer. For the avoidance of doubt, none of the Sellers, the Asset Management Businesses, or their respective Affiliates shall have the right to use the  Chevy Chase Bank 
name (or any derivatives thereof other than  Chevy Chase Trust ) after the Closing.      7.13.  Stockholder Support Agreement .
Concurrently with the execution of this Agreement, the Sellers shall execute the Stockholder Support Agreement, attached hereto as  Exhibit A  (the   Support Agreement  ).      7.14.  Lease of D.C. and Headquarters .      (a) Concurrently with the distribution contemplated by  Section 7.9(a) , B.F. Saul REIT, as landlord, and the Bank, as tenant, shall enter into a lease for the branch space located on the first floor of the
building located at 7501 Wisconsin Avenue, Bethesda, Maryland. Such lease shall include the terms set forth on  Exhibit B  hereto.      (b) Concurrently with the distribution contemplated by  Section 7.9(a) , B.F. Saul REIT, as landlord, and the Bank, as tenant, shall enter into a lease for the branch space located on the first floor,
including the mezzanine, of the building located on the D.C. Branch Property. Such lease shall include the terms set forth on  Exhibit C  hereto.      (c) Concurrently with the distribution contemplated by  Section 7.9(a) , B.F. Saul REIT, as landlord, and Purchaser and the Bank, as tenant, will enter into a lease with respect to the building located at
7501 Wisconsin Avenue, Bethesda, Maryland reflecting a rent of $44.89 per square foot for the approximately 360,000 square feet occupied by the Bank as of the date hereof for a lease term of one year after Closing, which term may be extended at
Purchaser s option for another six months thereafter upon at least six month s notice for all or any part of such leased premises at then prevailing market rates and otherwise on customary terms as agreed by the parties.      7.15.  Headquarters Loan . Purchaser agrees to negotiate in good faith on an arms length basis with respect to a potential loan to B.F. Saul REIT
(the   Headquarters Loan  ) on the building located at 7501 Wisconsin Avenue, Bethesda, Maryland based on the terms set forth on  Exhibit  D.      7.16.  280G Consent . In order to satisfy the requirements of Section 280G(b)(5)(A)(ii) of the Code, the Bank shall submit to a vote of the holders of Bank Common Stock for their determination all payments
or benefits that in the absence of such a vote could reasonably be         
   64   

viewed as  parachute payments  (within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code and the regulations thereunder), made to any individuals that
are  disqualified individuals  (within the meaning of Section 280G(c) of the Code and the regulations thereunder) and will solicit the consent of such holders of the Bank Common Stock to such parachute payments to such disqualified
individuals of the Bank disclosed therein (the   280G Consent  ). Such stockholder vote shall meet the requirements of Section 280G(b)(5)(B) of the Code and the regulations thereunder, and shall be in a form reasonably
satisfactory to the Purchaser.      7.17.  B.F. Saul Mortgage Company . Prior to Closing, the Bank shall cause B.F. Saul Mortgage Company,
a Maryland corporation and wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Bank (  BFSMC  ), to amend its articles of incorporation to change the name of BFSMC to a name that does not include the  B.F. Saul  name or any derivatives thereof.
Following a reasonable transition period not to exceed thirty (30) days after the Closing Date, none of Purchaser, the Bank nor any of their respective Subsidiaries shall use the  B.F. Saul  name or any derivatives thereof.
     7.18.  NetJets Agreements . Sellers shall continue to use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the necessary approvals from the
appropriate Governmental Authorities to permit the transfer of the NetJets Agreements to B.F. Saul REIT, and promptly following the receipt of such approvals Sellers and the Purchaser shall cooperate and execute the appropriate documents to
effectuate such transfer in accordance with  Section 2.7 . Pending such transfer, from and after the Closing, the Purchaser shall cause Chevy Chase Real Estate to provide, upon reasonable notice, senior executives of B.F. Saul REIT or
their designees, with access, to the aircraft leased under the NetJets Agreements until the expiration of such agreements. B.F. Saul REIT shall be responsible for all costs from and after January 1, 2009 associated with the NetJets Agreements
and shall pay any invoices related thereto, which the Bank will forward promptly upon receipt. The Bank will not (and will cause Chevy Chase Real Estate not to): (i) cease performance of its obligations under the NetJets Agreements,
(ii) terminate the NetJets Agreements prior to the expiration of such agreements, or (iii) assign or transfer its rights, title and interest in the NetJets Agreements to any Person (other than B.F. Saul REIT or its designee as contemplated
hereby).      7.19.  Bank Charitable Commitments .  Section 7.19  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule describes certain charitable
contributions, pledges and commitments made by the Bank or its Subsidiaries prior to the date hereof. The Purchaser agrees that, following the Closing Date, it will cause the Bank to honor such charitable pledges and commitments as provided in
 Section 7.19  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule.      7.20.  Non-Competition .      (a) For a period of three years following the Closing Date, B. Francis Saul II and each Seller agrees not to, and shall cause their
respective controlled Affiliates (including the Asset Management Businesses) and their and such Affiliates  officers, employees, agents and representatives (in their capacity as such) not to, directly or indirectly:      (i) engage in, have an ownership interest in, or otherwise be employed by or associate with, or permit his or its, as the case may be,
name to be used in connection with the activities of, any Competing Business;  provided , that ownership of  
       
   65   

less than five percent (5%) of the outstanding stock of any publicly traded corporation (including in the course of holding and making investments on
behalf of customers in the ordinary course of the Asset Management Businesses) shall not be deemed to be violation of this  Section 7.20(a)  solely by reason thereof;      (ii) solicit (or direct others to solicit) any customer of the Bank or its Subsidiaries (A) in respect of any services or products of
the type that are provided by a Competing Business or (B) to withdraw from or not to purchase any of the products or services provided by the Bank and its Subsidiaries, other than in each case (x) conducting general solicitations to
provide products and services of the type currently provided by the Asset Management Businesses (and any logical extensions or enhancements of such asset management services) that is not specifically targeted to any customer of the Bank and its
Subsidiaries or any group of such customers or (y) continuing to provide services to current customers of the Asset Management Businesses of the type provided within the Asset Management Businesses as of the date hereof (and any logical
extensions or enhancements of such asset management services) to such customers;      (iii) (A) contact, approach or
solicit for the purpose of offering employment to or hiring or retaining, or hire or retain, any person who is employed by the Bank or its Subsidiaries (other than any individual set forth on  Section 7.20  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule,
provided that the relevant party makes such individual available to provide transition services to Purchaser for at least one year following the Closing Date but not beyond the period for which such person remains an employee of B. Francis Saul II,
the Sellers or their controlled Affiliates) as of the date hereof or as of the Closing Date;  provided ,  however , that the foregoing will not be deemed to prohibit (I) general solicitations not targeted at such individuals
(including job announcements in newspapers and industry publications or on the Internet) or from hiring any individual who responds to such a general solicitation or (II) from soliciting or hiring any individual who has left the employment of the
Bank or its Subsidiaries at least six months prior to such solicitation or hire.      (b) It is the intent of the parties to
this agreement that the provisions of this  Section 7.20  shall be enforced to the fullest extent permissible under the laws and public policies applied in each jurisdiction in which enforcement is sought. If any particular provision or
portion of this  Section 7.20  shall be adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such provision or portion thereof shall be deemed amended to the minimum extent necessary to render such provision or portion valid and enforceable, such
amendment to apply only with respect to the operation of such provision or portion in the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made.      (c) B. Francis Saul II and each Seller agrees to use, and to cause the Asset Management Businesses to use, commercially reasonable efforts to encourage customers of the Asset Management Businesses with commercial
banking relationships with the Bank to maintain such relationships from and after the Closing with the Bank and its successors.         
   66   

(d) The parties hereto acknowledge that damages and remedies at law for any breach of
this  Section 7.20  would be inadequate and, Purchaser shall be entitled to specific performance and other equitable remedies (including an injunction) and such other relief as a court or tribunal may deem appropriate in addition to any
other remedies Purchaser may have in the event of a breach of this Agreement. The parties hereto acknowledge and agree that a portion of the Consideration being paid to each Seller pursuant to  Article II  hereof, which amount shall be
determined prior to the Closing by a third party accountant, auditor or appraiser selected by the Purchaser and reasonably acceptable to the Sellers, is being paid to such Seller in respect of the covenants set forth in this
 Section 7.20 , and no party hereto shall take any position inconsistent herewith.      ARTICLE VIII      REGISTRATION RIGHTS      8.1.  Shelf
Registration .      (a) As of the first trading day following the Closing but subject to delay for any Scheduled Black-Out
Period (such date the   Relevant Date  ), the Purchaser shall file with the SEC either (i) a new  shelf  registration statement or (ii) pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act, a prospectus supplement that
shall be deemed to be part of an existing  shelf  registration statement in accordance with Rule 430B under the Securities Act, in each case covering the resale of all Registrable Securities. The Registration Statement shall be an
Automatic Shelf Registration Statement. Notwithstanding the Purchaser s representation that the Registration Statement shall be an Automatic Shelf Registration Statement, and without relieving the Purchaser of any liability it should have for
such breach of such representation, if the Registration Statement is not automatically effective upon filing, the Purchaser shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Registration Statement to become effective as soon as possible after
filing. The Purchaser shall ensure that each Registration Statement (including any amendments or supplements thereto and Prospectuses contained therein) shall not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
required to be stated therein, or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of Prospectuses, in the light of the circumstances in which they were made) not misleading, except with respect to any information provided by a Seller furnished
in writing to the Purchaser by such Seller expressly for use therein, or to the extent that such information relates to such Seller or such Seller s proposed method of distribution of Registrable Securities and was reviewed and expressly
approved in writing by such Seller expressly for use in the Registration Statement, such Prospectus or such form of Prospectus or in any amendment or supplement thereto.      (b) The Purchaser shall use its reasonable best efforts to keep the Registration Statement continuously effective under the Securities Act
until the earlier of (i) the date that all Registrable Securities covered by such Registration Statement have been sold or (ii) the six month anniversary of the Relevant Date (the   Effectiveness Period  ).      (c) Upon the occurrence of any Event and on every monthly anniversary thereof until the applicable Event is cured, as partial relief for
the damages suffered therefrom by the Sellers (which remedy shall not be exclusive of any other remedies available under this Agreement, at law or in equity), the Purchaser shall pay to each Seller an amount in cash, as  
       
   67   

liquidated damages and not as a penalty, equal to 0.5% of the aggregate dollar value of the Stock Consideration received by each Seller for the first month,
increasing thereafter by a rate of 0.5% during each successive monthly period (or portion thereof) during which an Event remains uncured;  provided ,  however , that liquidated damages shall not in any event exceed 5.0% of the dollar value
of the Stock Consideration received by each Seller. The payments to which a Seller shall be entitled pursuant to this  Section 8.1(c)  are referred to herein as   Event Payments .  Any Event Payments payable pursuant to the
terms hereof shall apply on a pro  rata  basis for any portion of a month prior to the cure of an Event, and any such Event Payments shall be due and payable monthly on or before the 10th Business Day following the earlier to occur of either
(i) the cure of an Event or (ii) the monthly anniversary of the Event (and each monthly anniversary thereafter until the cure of the Event) (an   Event Payment Date  ). In the event the Purchaser fails to make Event Payments
by the Event Payment Date, such Event Payments shall bear interest at the rate of 1.0% per month (prorated for partial months) until paid in full.      For such purposes, each of the following shall constitute an   Event  :      (i)
after the Effective Date, a Seller is not permitted to sell Registrable Securities under the Registration Statement (or a subsequent Registration Statement filed in replacement thereof) for any reason (other than an objection from Sellers as
contemplated under  Section 8.2(a) ) for a period of at least five (5) consecutive Trading Days,  provided , that such an Event shall be deemed  cured  for purposes of this  Section 8.1(c)  upon the
termination of such period;      (ii) the Purchaser Common Shares are not listed or quoted, or suspended from trading, on the
Trading Market for a period of at least three (3) consecutive Trading Days at any time during the first twelve (12) months after the Effective Date,  provided , that such an Event shall be deemed  cured  for purposes of this
 Section 8.1(c)  upon the termination of such period; or      (iii) the Purchaser fails for any reason (other than an
objection from Sellers as contemplated under  Section 8.2(a) ) to file the Registration Statement pursuant to  Section 8.1(a)  or such Registration Statement does not become effective within five (5) Business Days
following the Relevant Date.      8.2.  Registration Procedures . In connection with the Purchaser s registration obligations
hereunder, the Purchaser shall:      (a) Not less than three (3) Trading Days prior to the filing of a Registration
Statement or any related Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto (including any document that would be incorporated or deemed to be incorporated therein by reference (other than any documents containing material non-public information)),
the Purchaser shall (i) furnish to each Seller and any counsel designated by such Seller (each, a   Seller Counsel  ) copies of all such documents proposed to be filed and (ii) cause its officers and directors, counsel and
independent certified public accountants to respond to such inquiries as shall be necessary, in the reasonable opinion of each Seller Counsel, to conduct a reasonable investigation within the meaning of the Securities Act. The Purchaser shall not
file a Registration Statement or any such Prospectus or any amendments or supplements (other than periodic reports required under the Exchange Act) thereto to which Sellers holding a majority of the Registrable Securities shall reasonably object in
writing within two (2) Trading Days of receipt.         
   68   

(b) (i) Prepare and file with the SEC such amendments, including post- effective
amendments, to each Registration Statement and the Prospectus used in connection therewith as may be necessary to keep the Registration Statement continuously effective as to the applicable Registrable Securities for the Effectiveness Period and
prepare and file with the SEC such additional Registration Statements in order to register for resale under the Securities Act all of the Registrable Securities; (ii) cause the related Prospectus to be amended or supplemented by any required
Prospectus supplement, and as so supplemented or amended to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act; (iii) if the Registration Statement is not an Automatic Shelf Registration Statement, respond as promptly as possible to any
comments received from the SEC with respect to the Registration Statement or any amendment thereto and as promptly as possible provide each Seller true and complete copies of all correspondence from and to the SEC relating to the Registration
Statement; and (iv) comply in all material respects with the provisions of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act with respect to the disposition of all Registrable Securities covered by the Registration Statement during the applicable period
in accordance with the intended methods of disposition by the Sellers thereof set forth in the Registration Statement as so amended or in such Prospectus as so supplemented.      (c) Notify the Sellers and each Seller Counsel as promptly as possible, and (if requested by any such Person) confirm such notice in
writing no later than one Trading Day thereafter, of any of the following events: (i) the SEC notifies the Purchaser whether there will be a  review  of any Registration Statement that is not an Automatic Shelf Registration;
(ii) the SEC comments in writing on any Registration Statement that is not an Automatic Shelf Registration (in which case the Purchaser shall deliver to each Seller a copy of such comments and of all written responses thereto); (iii) any
Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment is declared effective (to the extent Rule 462(e) under the Securities Act is inapplicable); (iv) the SEC or any other Governmental Authority requests any amendment or supplement to any
Registration Statement or Prospectus or requests additional information related thereto; (v) the SEC issues any stop order suspending the effectiveness of any Registration Statement or initiates any Proceedings for that purpose; (vi) the
Purchaser receives notice of any suspension of the qualification or exemption from qualification of any Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction, or the initiation or threat of any Proceeding for such purpose; or (vii) the financial
statements included in any Registration Statement become ineligible for inclusion therein or any statement made in any Registration Statement or Prospectus or any document incorporated or deemed to be incorporated therein by reference is untrue in
any material respect or any revision to a Registration Statement, Prospectus or other document is required so that it will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or
necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of a Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading.      (d) Use its reasonable best efforts to avoid the issuance of or, if issued, obtain the withdrawal of (i) any order suspending the effectiveness of any Registration Statement, or (ii) any suspension of the
qualification (or exemption from qualification) of any of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction, as soon as possible.         
   69   

(e) Furnish to each Seller and Seller Counsel, without charge, at least one conformed
copy of each Registration Statement and each amendment thereto, and all exhibits to the extent requested by such Person (including those previously furnished or incorporated by reference) promptly after the filing of such documents with the SEC.
     (f) Promptly deliver to each Seller and Seller Counsel, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus or Prospectuses
(including each form of prospectus) and each amendment or supplement thereto as such Persons may reasonably request. The Purchaser hereby consents to the use of such Prospectus and each amendment or supplement thereto by each of the Sellers in
connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by such Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto to the extent permitted by federal and state securities laws and regulations.      (g) Prior to any public offering of Registrable Securities, use its reasonable best efforts to register or qualify or cooperate with the
Sellers and each Seller Counsel in connection with the registration or qualification (or exemption from such registration or qualification) of such Registrable Securities for offer and sale under the securities or  blue sky  laws of such
jurisdictions within the United States as any Seller reasonably requests in writing, to keep each such registration or qualification (or exemption therefrom) effective during the Effectiveness Period and to do any and all other acts or things
reasonably necessary or advisable to enable the disposition in such jurisdictions of the Registrable Securities covered by a Registration Statement;  provided ,  however , that the Purchaser shall not be obligated to file any general
consent to service of process or to qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction in which it is not so qualified or to subject itself to taxation in respect of doing business in any jurisdiction in which it is
not otherwise so subject.      (h) Cooperate with the Sellers to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates
representing Registrable Securities (if such shares are certificated) to be delivered to a transferee pursuant to a Registration Statement, which certificates shall be free of all restrictive legends, and to enable such Registrable Securities to be
in such denominations and registered in such names as any such Sellers may request.      (i) With respect to any event that
would cause the Registration Statement not to be continuously effective as required by  Section 8.1(b) , including for any event described in  Section 8.2(c)(vii) , as promptly as possible, prepare a supplement or amendment,
including a post-effective amendment, to the Registration Statement or a supplement to the related Prospectus or any document incorporated or deemed to be incorporated therein by reference, and file any other required document so that, as thereafter
delivered, neither the Registration Statement nor such Prospectus will contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of a
Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading.      (j) Cooperate with any reasonable
due diligence investigation undertaken by the Sellers in connection with the sale of Registrable Securities, including, without limitation, by making available any documents and information reasonably requested;  provided , that the Purchaser
will not deliver or make available to any Seller material, nonpublic information unless  
       
   70   

such Seller specifically requests in advance to receive material, nonpublic information in writing and, if requested by the Purchaser, such Seller agrees in
writing satisfactory to Purchaser to treat such information confidentially.      (k) Comply with all applicable rules and
regulations of the SEC in all material respects.      8.3.  Registration Expenses . The Purchaser shall pay all fees and expenses incident
to the performance of or compliance with  Article VIII  of this Agreement including, without limitation (a) all registration and filing fees and expenses, including without limitation those related to filings with the SEC, any Trading
Market and in connection with applicable state securities or  blue sky  laws (including counsel fees in connection with the preparation of a blue sky memorandum), (b) printing expenses (including without limitation expenses of
printing certificates for Registrable Securities and of printing Prospectuses requested by the Sellers), (c) messenger, telephone and delivery expenses incurred by the Purchaser, (d) fees and disbursements of counsel for the Purchaser,
(e) fees and expenses of all other Persons retained by the Purchaser in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and (f) all listing fees to be paid by the Purchaser to the Trading Market.
     8.4.  Indemnification .      (a)  Indemnification by the Purchaser . The Purchaser shall, notwithstanding any termination of this Agreement, indemnify and hold harmless each Seller, the officers, directors, partners, members, agents, and
employees of each of them, each Person who controls any such Seller (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act) and the officers, directors, partners, members, agents, investment advisors and
employees of each such controlling Person, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, from and against any and all Losses, as incurred, arising out of or relating to any untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the
Registration Statement, any Prospectus or any form of prospectus or in any amendment or supplement thereto or in any preliminary Prospectus, or arising out of or relating to any omission or alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated
therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of any Prospectus or form of prospectus or supplement thereto, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading, except to the extent, but only to the
extent, that (i) such untrue statements, alleged untrue statements, omissions or alleged omissions are based solely upon information regarding such Seller furnished in writing to the Purchaser by such Seller expressly for use therein, or to the
extent that such information relates to such Seller or such Seller s proposed method of distribution of Registrable Securities and was reviewed and expressly approved in writing by such Seller expressly for use in the Registration Statement,
such Prospectus or such form of Prospectus or in any amendment or supplement thereto or (ii) in the case of an occurrence of an event of the type specified in  Section 8.2(c)(v)-(vii) , the use by such Seller of an outdated or
defective Prospectus after the Purchaser has notified such Seller in writing that the Prospectus is outdated or defective and prior to the receipt by such Seller of the Advice contemplated in  Section 8.5 . The Purchaser shall notify the
Sellers promptly of the institution, threat or assertion of any Proceeding of which the Purchaser is aware in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.         
   71   

(b)  Indemnification by the Sellers . Each Seller shall, severally and not jointly,
indemnify and hold harmless the Purchaser, its directors, officers, agents and employees, each Person who controls the Purchaser (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act and Section 20 of the Exchange Act), and the
directors, officers, agents or employees of such controlling Persons, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, from and against all Losses arising solely out of any untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the
Registration Statement, any Prospectus or any form of prospectus or in any amendment or supplement thereto or in any preliminary Prospectus, or arising solely out of any omission or alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein
or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of any Prospectus or form of prospectus or supplement thereto, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading to the extent, but only to the extent, that such
untrue statement, alleged untrue statement, omission or alleged omission is based solely upon information regarding such Seller furnished in writing to the Purchaser by such Seller expressly for use therein, or to the extent that such information
relates to such Seller or such Seller s proposed method of distribution of Registrable Securities and was reviewed and expressly approved in writing by such Seller expressly for use in the Registration Statement, such Prospectus or such form of
Prospectus or in any amendment or supplement thereto or (ii) in the case of an occurrence of an event of the type specified in  Section 8.2(c)(v)- (vii) , the use by such Seller of an outdated or defective Prospectus after the
Purchaser has notified such Seller in writing that the Prospectus is outdated or defective and prior to the receipt by such Seller of the Advice contemplated in  Section 8.5 . In no event shall the liability of any Seller hereunder be
greater in amount than the dollar amount of the net proceeds in respect of the sale by such Seller of the Registrable Securities giving rise to such indemnification obligation.      (c)  Conduct of Indemnification Proceedings . If any Proceeding shall be brought or asserted against any Person entitled to indemnity
under this  Article VIII  (a   Indemnified Party  ), such Indemnified Party shall promptly notify the Person from whom indemnity is sought (the   Indemnifying Party  ) in writing, and the Indemnifying Party shall
assume the defense thereof, including the employment of counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Party and the payment of all fees and expenses incurred in connection with defense thereof;  provided , that the failure of any
Indemnified Party to give such notice shall not relieve the Indemnifying Party of its obligations or liabilities pursuant to this Agreement, except (and only) to the extent that it shall be finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction
(which determination is not subject to appeal or further review) that such failure shall have proximately and materially adversely prejudiced the Indemnifying Party.      An Indemnified Party shall have the right to employ separate counsel in any such Proceeding and to participate in the defense thereof, but
the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Party or Parties unless: (i) the Indemnifying Party has agreed in writing to pay such fees and expenses; or (ii) the Indemnifying Party shall have failed
promptly to assume the defense of such Proceeding and to employ counsel reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Party in any such Proceeding; or (iii) the named parties to any such Proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both
such Indemnified Party and the Indemnifying Party, and such Indemnified Party shall have been advised by counsel that a conflict of interest is likely to exist if the same counsel were to represent such Indemnified Party and the Indemnifying Party
(in which case, if such Indemnified Party notifies the Indemnifying Party in writing that it elects to employ separate counsel at the expense of the Indemnifying  
       
   72   

Party, the Indemnifying Party shall not have the right to assume the defense thereof and such counsel shall be at the expense of the Indemnifying Party). It
being understood, however, that the Indemnifying Party shall not, in connection with any one such Proceeding be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys at any time for all Indemnified Parties, which firm shall be
appointed by a majority of the Indemnified Parties. The Indemnifying Party shall not be liable for any settlement of any such Proceeding effected without its written consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. No Indemnifying Party
shall, without the prior written consent of the Indemnified Party, effect any settlement of any pending Proceeding in respect of which any Indemnified Party is a party, unless such settlement includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified
Party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such Proceeding.      All fees and expenses of the Indemnified
Party (including reasonable fees and expenses to the extent incurred in connection with investigating or preparing to defend such Proceeding in a manner not inconsistent with this  Section ) shall be paid to the Indemnified Party, as incurred,
within ten (10) Trading Days of written notice thereof to the Indemnifying Party;  provided , that the Indemnifying Party may require such Indemnified Party to undertake to reimburse all such fees and expenses to the extent it is finally
judicially determined that such Indemnified Party is not entitled to indemnification hereunder.      (d)  Contribution . If
a claim for indemnification under  Section 8.4(a)  or  (b)  is unavailable to an Indemnified Party (by reason of public policy or otherwise), then each Indemnifying Party, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Party, shall
contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Party as a result of such Losses, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the Indemnifying Party and Indemnified Party in connection with the actions,
statements or omissions that resulted in such Losses as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of such Indemnifying Party and Indemnified Party shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any
action in question, including any untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission of a material fact, has been taken or made by, or relates to information supplied by, such Indemnifying Party or Indemnified
Party, and the parties  relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such action, statement or omission. The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of any Losses shall be deemed to include,
subject to the limitations set forth in  Section 8.4(c) , any reasonable attorneys  or other reasonable fees or expenses incurred by such party in connection with any Proceeding to the extent such party would have been indemnified for
such fees or expenses if the indemnification provided for in this  Section  was available to such party in accordance with its terms.      The parties hereto agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this  Section 8.4(d)  were determined by  pro   rata  allocation or by any other method of allocation
that does not take into account the equitable considerations referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph. Notwithstanding the provisions of this  Section 8.4(d) , no Seller shall be required to contribute, in the aggregate, any
amount in excess of the dollar amount of the net proceeds for which the Registrable Securities were sold by such Seller. No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be
entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.         
   73   

The indemnity and contribution agreements contained in this  Section  are in
addition to any liability that the Indemnifying Parties may have to the Indemnified Parties.      8.5.  Dispositions . Each Seller agrees
that, upon receipt of a notice from the Purchaser of the occurrence of any event of the kind described in  Section 8.2(c)(v) - (vii) , such Seller will discontinue disposition of such Registrable Securities under the Registration Statement
until such Seller s receipt of the copies of the supplemented Prospectus and/or amended Registration Statement contemplated by  Section 8.2(i) , or until it is advised in writing (the   Advice  ) by the Purchaser that
the use of the applicable Prospectus may be resumed, and, in either case, has received copies of any additional or supplemental filings that are incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in such Prospectus or Registration Statement. The
Purchaser may provide appropriate stop orders to enforce the provisions of this paragraph.      8.6.  Piggy-Back Registrations . If at any
time during the Effectiveness Period there is not an effective Registration Statement covering all of the Registrable Securities and the Purchaser shall determine to prepare and file with the SEC a registration statement relating to an offering for
its own account or the account of others under the Securities Act of any of its equity securities, other than on Form S-4 or Form S-8 (each as promulgated under the Securities Act) or their then equivalents relating to equity securities to be issued
solely in connection with any acquisition of any entity or business or equity securities issuable in connection with stock option or other employee benefit plans, then the Purchaser shall send to each Seller written notice of such determination and
if, within fifteen (15) days after receipt of such notice, any such Seller shall so request in writing, the Purchaser shall include in such registration statement all or any part of such Registrable Securities such Seller requests to be
registered,  provided , that the including of the Registrable Securities in such registration statement shall not relieve the Purchaser of its obligations under this  Article VIII .      ARTICLE IX      CONDITIONS PRECEDENT      9.1.  Conditions to Each Party s Obligations . The respective obligations of each party to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby
shall be subject to the satisfaction (or waiver by all parties) at or prior to the Closing Date of the following conditions:      (a)  No Injunctions or Restraints; Illegality . No order, injunction or decree issued by any court or agency of competent jurisdiction or other legal restraint or prohibition (an   Injunction  ) preventing the
consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby shall be in effect. No Law shall have been enacted, entered, promulgated or enforced by any Governmental Authority which prohibits or makes illegal the consummation of the transactions
contemplated hereby.      (b)  Effectiveness of Distributions . The Sellers shall have received all necessary Dividend
Conveyance and Assumption Instruments necessary to effect the distributions contemplated by  Sections 7.9 . All distributions, transfers, and assignments contemplated by the Dividend Conveyance and Assumption Instruments shall have been
effected and consummated in accordance with their terms; provided, that to the extent the Chevy Chase Trust Distribution Date or the distribution of the ASB Capital Membership Interests will occur  
       
   74   

following the Closing pursuant to  Section 7.10  or  Section 7.11 , the Dividend Conveyance and Assumption Instruments associated with
such post-Closing distributions shall, if necessary, be effected and consummated as of the date of such distributions.      9.2.  Conditions
to Obligations of the Purchaser . The obligation of the Purchaser to effect the transactions contemplated hereby is also subject to the satisfaction or waiver by the Purchaser at or prior to the Closing Date of the following conditions:
     (a)  Representations and Warranties .      (i) The representations and warranties regarding the Sellers set forth in  Article III  shall be true and correct as of the date of
this Agreement and as of the Closing Date as though made on and as of the Closing Date (except to the extent they speak as of an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct as though made on and as of such earlier date).   
  (ii) Subject to the standard set forth in the preamble to  Article IV , the representations and warranties regarding the Bank set
forth in  Article IV  shall be true and correct as of the date of this Agreement and as of the Closing Date as though made on and as of the Closing Date (except to the extent they speak as of an earlier date, in which case they shall be true
and correct as though made on and as of such earlier date).      (b)  Performance of Obligations of the Sellers . The
Sellers shall have performed in all material respects all obligations required to be performed by them under this Agreement at or prior to the Closing Date.      (c)  Officer s Certificate . Purchaser shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of each Seller by its Chief Executive
Officer or Chief Financial Officer stating that the conditions specified in  Sections 9.2(a)  and  9.2(b)  have been satisfied.      (d)  Regulatory Approvals . All regulatory approvals described in  Sections 4.3  and  5.4  required to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby shall have been obtained and shall remain in full
force and effect and all statutory waiting periods in respect thereof shall have expired or been terminated (all such approvals and the expiration or termination of all such waiting periods being referred to herein as the   Requisite
Regulatory Approvals  ), and no such regulatory approval shall have resulted in the imposition of any Materially Burdensome Regulatory Condition.      9.3.  Conditions to Obligations of the Sellers . The obligation of each Seller to effect the transactions contemplated hereby is also subject to the satisfaction or waiver by such Seller at or prior to the
Closing Date of the following conditions:      (a)  Representations and Warranties . Subject to the standard set forth in
the preamble to  Article V , the representations and warranties regarding the Purchaser set forth in  Article V  of this Agreement shall be true and correct as of the date of this Agreement and as of the Closing Date as though made on and
as of the Closing Date (except to the extent they speak as of an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct as though made on and as of such earlier date).       
  
   75   

(b)  Performance of Obligations of the Purchaser . The Purchaser shall have
performed in all material respects all obligations required to be performed by it under this Agreement at or prior to the Closing Date.      (c)  Officer s Certificate . Purchaser shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of Purchaser by a duly authorized officer stating that the conditions specified in  Sections 9.3(a)  and
 9.3(b)  have been satisfied.      (d)  Regulatory Approvals . All Requisite Regulatory Approvals shall have been
obtained and shall remain in full force and effect and all statutory waiting periods in respect thereof shall have expired or been terminated.      ARTICLE X      TERMINATION      10.1.  Termination . This Agreement may be terminated and the Agreement may be abandoned at any time prior to the Closing Date:      (a) by mutual written consent of the Sellers and the Purchaser;      (b) by either the Sellers
or the Purchaser if (i) any Governmental Authority which must grant a Requisite Regulatory Approval has denied approval of the Agreement and such denial has become final and nonappealable or (ii) any Governmental Authority of competent
jurisdiction shall have issued a final nonappealable order enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the consummation of the Agreement;      (c) by either the Sellers or the Purchaser if the Closing Date shall not have occurred on or before June 30, 2009 (the   End Date  ), unless the failure of the Closing Date to occur by such date shall be due to the
failure of the party seeking to terminate this Agreement to perform or observe the covenants and agreements of such party set forth herein; or      (d) by either the Sellers or the Purchaser  (provided , that the terminating party is not then in material breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or other agreement contained herein) if the other party
shall have breached (i) any of the covenants or agreements made by such other party herein or (ii) any of the representations or warranties made by such other party herein, and in either case, such breach is not cured within thirty
(30) days following written notice to the party committing such breach, or which breach, by its nature, cannot be cured prior to the Closing.      10.2.  Effect of Termination . In the event of termination of this Agreement by either the Sellers or the Purchaser as provided in  Section 10.1 , written notice thereof shall be given to the other party, specifying the
provision hereof pursuant to which such termination is made and this Agreement shall forthwith become void and have no effect, and none of the Sellers, the Purchaser, any of their respective Subsidiaries or any of the officers or directors of any of
them shall have any liability of any nature whatsoever hereunder, or in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, except that (i)  Section 7.2(c) , this  Article X ,  Section 12.3 ,  Section 12.9 
and  Section 12.12  shall survive any termination of this Agreement and (ii) notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, neither the Sellers nor  
       
   76   

the Purchaser shall be relieved or released from any liabilities or damages arising out of its knowing breach of any provision of this Agreement;
 provided , that in no event shall any party hereto be liable for any punitive damages.      ARTICLE XI      INDEMNIFICATION      11.1.  Survival of
Representations and Warranties . The representations and warranties of the parties contained in  Sections 3.1 ( b) ,  4.5 - 4.7 ,  4.17 ,  5.3(b) ,  5.7 , and  5.8  shall survive the Closing through and
including the first anniversary of the Closing Date; the representations and warranties contained in  Sections 3.1(a) ,  3.2 ,  4.1 ,  4.2 ,  5.1 ,  5.2 , an d 5.3(a)  shall survive the Closing without limit as to
time; and the representations and warranties contained in  Sections 4.9 , and  4.10  shall survive the Closing until thirty (30) days following the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations with respect to the particular
matter that is the subject matter thereof;  provided ,  however , that any obligations to indemnify and hold harmless in relation to the foregoing shall not terminate with respect to any Losses as to which the Person to be indemnified
shall have given notice (stating the basis of the claim for indemnification) to the indemnifying party in accordance with  Section 11.3(a)  before the termination of the applicable survival period. The covenants and agreements of the
parties hereto contained herein that by their terms are to be performed following the Closing Date shall survive the Closing and continue in effect in accordance with their terms, and the covenants and agreements of the parties contained herein that
by their terms are to be performed prior to the Closing Date shall survive the Closing through and including the first anniversary of the Closing Date (provided that any obligations to indemnify and hold harmless with respect to such pre-Closing
covenants shall not terminate with respect to any Losses as to which the Person to be indemnified shall have given notice (stating the basis of the claim for indemnification) to the indemnifying party in accordance with  Section 11.3(a)
b efore the expiration of such survival period).      11.2.  Indemnification .      (a) Subject to  Sections 11.1 ,  11.4  and  11.5  from and after the Closing, each Seller, severally and not jointly in the
case of clauses (i) and (ii), and jointly and severally in the case of clauses (iii)   (vi), agrees to indemnify and hold the Purchasers, the Bank and its Subsidiaries (after the Closing) and their respective directors, officers,
employees, stockholders, agents, attorneys, representatives, successors and assigns (collectively, the   Purchaser Indemnified Parties  ) harmless from and against:      (i) any and all Losses incurred by them as a result of or in connection with the failure of any of the representations or warranties made
by the Sellers in  Sections 3.1 ,  3.2 ,  4.1 ,  4.2 ,  4.5 - 4.7 ,  4.9 ,  4.10  or  4.17  to be true and correct at the date hereof and at and as of the Closing Date;      (ii) any and all Losses incurred by them as a result of or in connection with the breach of any covenant or other agreement on the part of
the Sellers and the Bank (prior to the Closing) under this Agreement (excluding any such breach that is otherwise covered under  Sections 11.2(a)(iii)   (vi)) ;       
  
   77   

(iii) any and all Losses incurred by them as a result of or in connection with the
Excluded Assets (including but not limited to any litigation matters related to the Excluded Assets) or the distribution of the Excluded Assets contemplated by  Section 7.9 ;      (iv) any (A) Taxes imposed on or with respect to any of the Sellers or any of their Affiliates (other than the Bank and its
Subsidiaries), or for which any of the Sellers may otherwise be liable, attributable to any and all taxable years or periods, (B) liability in respect of Taxes of the Bank and the Bank s Subsidiaries for the Pre-Closing Tax Period and,
with respect to the Straddle Period, the portion of such period up to and including the Closing Date, (C) Taxes of any Person (other than the Bank or the Bank s Subsidiaries) under Treas. Reg.  1.1502-6 (or any similar provision of
state, local or foreign law), as a transferee or successor, by contract, or otherwise, (D) Taxes (other than Transfer Taxes) resulting from, arising out of, relating to, or caused by the distribution, sale, conveyance or other transfer of the
Excluded Assets as contemplated by this Agreement, (E) Taxes on deferred intercompany transactions which occurred prior to Closing (excluding transactions that occur post-closing on the Closing Date) for which the Bank or any of its
Subsidiaries may be liable as a result of Treas. Reg.   1.1502-13, (F) Taxes resulting from any extraordinary transaction outside the ordinary course of business undertaken by any of the Sellers, the Bank or any of the Bank s
Subsidiary in anticipation of the sale of the Bank Common Shares pursuant hereto, (G) Losses resulting from, arising out of, relating to or caused by any Seller s breach of any representation, warranty, agreement or covenant contained in
 Section  2. 7,   Section 4.9 ,  Section 6.2(m) ,  Section 6.2(n) ,  Section 6.5  or  Section 7.8 , (H) Transfer Taxes that are the responsibility of the Sellers pursuant to
 Sections 2.7  and  7.8(f) , (I) any liability for Taxes as a result of an adjustment to losses, credits or other Tax attributes, resulting from the recognition of a loss described in Section 7.8(c), carried forward to any
taxable year or period that begins after the Closing Date and, with respect to any Straddle Period, the portion of such Straddle Period beginning after the Closing Date, and (J) Taxes of or attributable to Chevy Chase Trust or ASB Capital for
all taxable years or periods (without duplication of amounts distributed in respect thereof pursuant to  Sections 7.10(e)(iv)  or  7.11(d)(iv)) ;      (v) Any Controlled Group Liability and any and all Losses incurred by them as a result of or in connection with any Non-Bank Benefit Plan (other than any liability to make the payment under  Section 7.3  to
the extent the amounts paid are fully accrued on the Pro Forma Financial Statements); and      (vi) any and all Losses, as
incurred, arising out of or relating to the Purchaser s compliance with  Sections 7.10(b) ,  7.10(d) ,  7.10(e) ,  7.10(f) ,  7.11(b) ,  7.11(c)   7.11(d)  and  7.11(e)  or the Bank s ownership of an
Asset Management Business following the Closing, except to the extent such Losses were proximately caused by such Purchaser Indemnified Party acting in a manner constituting gross negligence or willful misconduct. For the avoidance of doubt, Sellers
shall be responsible for all costs and liabilities associated with the Asset Management Businesses, including all related employee compensation and benefit expense.         
   78   

(b) Subject to  Sections 11.1  and  11.4 , from and after the Closing, the
Purchaser hereby agrees to indemnify and hold the Sellers and their directors, officers, employees, stockholders, agents, attorneys, representatives, successors and assigns (collectively, the   Seller Indemnified Parties  ) harmless
from and against:      (i) any and all Losses incurred by them as a result of the failure of any of the representations or
warranties made by the Purchaser in  Sections 5.1 ,  5.2 ,  5.3 ,  5.7  or  5.8  to be true and correct at the date hereof and at and as of the Closing Date;      (ii) any and all Losses incurred by them after Closing arising out of the businesses, operations and activities of the Bank and its
Subsidiaries from and after the Closing, except to the extent (A) related to any of the Excluded Assets (including but not limited to the Asset Management Businesses) and any actions under  Sections 7.10 ,  7.11  or  7.18 
hereof, (B) subject to indemnification by the Sellers hereunder, (C) arising out of or related to the breach by Sellers of their agreements, covenants and obligations set forth in the Agreement or the agreements of Sellers contemplated
hereby, or (D) otherwise addressed under  Section 7.4  or  Section 8.4(a)  hereof; and      (iii) any
and all Losses incurred by them as a result of the breach of any covenant or other agreement on the part of Purchaser under this Agreement.      11.3.  Indemnification Procedures.       (a) If any Proceeding shall be instituted or any claim or demand shall be
asserted by any Person or any other matter shall arise in respect of which payment may be sought under  Section 11.2  hereof (regardless of the limitations set forth in  Section 11.4 ) (  Indemnification Claim  ),
the indemnified party shall promptly cause written notice of the assertion of any Indemnification Claim of which it has knowledge which is covered by this indemnity to be forwarded to the indemnifying party. The indemnifying party shall have the
right, at its sole expense, to assume the defense of any Proceeding or other claim or demand brought by an unaffiliated third party (a   Third Party Claim  ) with counsel of its choice, which must be reasonably satisfactory to the
indemnified party, and to defend against, negotiate, settle or otherwise deal with any Indemnification Claim which relates to any Losses indemnified against hereunder;  provided , that the indemnifying party shall have acknowledged in writing
to the indemnified party its unqualified obligation to indemnify the indemnified party as provided hereunder (other than any qualification arising under the limitations of  Section 11.4 ). If the indemnifying party elects to defend
against, negotiate, settle or otherwise deal with any Third Party Claim which relates to any Losses indemnified by it hereunder, it shall as promptly as practicable (and in any event within fifteen (15) days (or sooner, if the nature of the
Indemnification Claim so requires)) following notice in accordance with the first sentence of this  Section 11.3  notify the indemnified party of its intent to do so. If the indemnifying party elects not to defend against, negotiate,
settle or otherwise deal with any Third Party Claim which relates to any Losses indemnified against hereunder, fails to notify the indemnified party of its election as herein provided, contests its obligations to indemnify the indemnified party for
such Losses under this Agreement (other than as set forth in the parenthetical to the proviso in the second sentence of this  Section 11.3(a) ), the indemnified party may defend against, negotiate, settle or otherwise deal with such Third
Party Claim,  provided  that the indemnified party shall keep the indemnifying party reasonably and as promptly as practicable apprised of the status of such Third Party Claim and use reasonable efforts to allow the indemnifying party to

79   

participate therein at its own expenses. If the indemnified party defends any Third Party Claim, then the indemnifying party shall reimburse the indemnified
party for the reasonable and out-of-pocket expenses, including reasonable and out-of-pocket attorneys  and other professionals  fees and disbursements (collectively,   Expenses  ) of defending such Third Party Claim upon
submission of periodic bills. If the indemnifying party shall assume the defense of any Third Party Claim, the indemnified party may participate at his or its own expense, in the defense of such Third Party Claim;  provided ,  however ,
that such indemnified party shall be entitled to participate in any such defense with separate counsel at the expense of the indemnifying party if (i) so requested by the indemnifying party to participate or (ii) counsel to the indemnified
party shall have advised the indemnified party that a conflict or potential conflict exists between the indemnified party and the indemnifying party that would make such separate representation advisable, (iii) the named parties to any such
action (including any impleaded parties) include both such indemnified party and the indemnifying party and such indemnified party shall have been advised in writing by counsel that there may be one or more legal defenses available to the
indemnified party, (iv) the amount of the monetary recovery is reasonably expected to exceed the amount the indemnifying party is otherwise obligated to provide indemnification for under this Agreement; and  provided ,  further , that
the indemnifying party shall not be required to pay for more than one such counsel (plus local counsel) for all indemnified parties in connection with any Third Party Claim. The parties hereto agree to cooperate fully with each other in connection
with the defense, negotiation or settlement of any such Third Party Claim. Notwithstanding anything in this  Section 11.3  to the contrary, neither the indemnifying party nor the indemnified party shall, without the written consent of the
other party, settle or compromise any Third Party Claim or permit a default or consent to entry of any judgment unless the claimant and such party provide to such other party an unqualified release from all liability in respect of the Third Party
Claim and such settlement, compromise or judgment does not involve any non-monetary penalty or admission of fault or liability on the part of the indemnified party or its Affiliates. If the indemnifying party makes any payment on any Third Party
Claim, the indemnifying party shall be subrogated, to the extent of such payment, to all rights and remedies of the indemnified party to any insurance benefits or other claims of the indemnified party with respect to such Third Party Claim.
     (b) After any final decision, judgment or award shall have been rendered by a Governmental Body of competent jurisdiction
finding that the indemnifying party is liable to the indemnified party for Losses hereunder, or the indemnified party and the indemnifying party shall have arrived at a mutually binding settlement or other agreement with respect to an
Indemnification Claim hereunder, the indemnifying party shall be required to pay all of the sums so due and owing to the indemnified party by wire transfer of immediately available funds within five (5) Business Days after the date of such
notice.      (c) The failure of the indemnified party to give reasonably prompt notice of any Indemnification Claim shall not
release, waive or otherwise affect the indemnifying party s obligations with respect thereto except to the extent that the indemnifying party can demonstrate actual loss and prejudice as a result of such failure.         
   80   

11.4.  Limitations on Indemnification for Breaches of Representations and Warranties .   
  (a) An indemnifying party shall not have any liability under  Section 11.2(a)(i)  or  Section 11.2(b)(i)  hereof
(other than with respect to a result of a breach of the representations and warranties set forth in  Sections 3.1(a) ,  3.2 ,  4.1(a) ,  4.2(a) ,  4.6 , or  4.9)  unless the aggregate amount of Losses to the indemnified
parties finally determined to arise thereunder exceeds $25 million (the   Basket  ), in which case the indemnifying party(ies) shall be responsible for Losses only to the extent they exceed such amount.      (b) The Sellers  aggregate obligations under  Section 11.2(a)(i)  shall not exceed $100 million (the  Cap ).
Purchaser s aggregate obligations under  Section 11.2(b)(i)  shall not exceed the Cap. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Cap shall not apply to Losses related to breach of any representation or warranty contained in  Sections
3.1(a) ,  3.2 ,  4.1(a) ,  4.2 ( a) ,  4.6  or  4.9 .      (c) For purposes of determining
whether any such breach has occurred or calculating Losses hereunder, any materiality, knowledge, Material Adverse Effect or similar qualification contained in the representations and warranties shall be ignored.      11.5.  Calculation of Losses .      (a) All Losses that any indemnified party is entitled to indemnification under this  Article XI  shall be calculated after giving effect to: (i) any proceeds actually received from insurance policies covering the damage, loss,
liability or expense that is the subject to the claim for indemnity, (ii) any proceeds actually received from third parties, including through indemnification, counterclaim, reimbursement arrangement, contract or otherwise in compensation for
the subject matter of an indemnification claim by such indemnified party, and (iii) any net Tax cost incurred by the indemnified party arising from the receipt of indemnity payments hereunder (grossed up for such increase) and (iv) any net
Tax benefit actually realized in cash, credit or a reduction of Taxes otherwise payable in the year in which such Loss was incurred (or in a prior year) arising from the incurrence or payment of any such Loss (such arrangements referenced in
 clauses (i) ,  (ii), (iii)  and  (iv) , collectively,   Alternative Arrangements  ) net of any reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by such indemnified party in collecting such amount. In computing the
amount of any such Tax benefit referred to in the foregoing sentence, the indemnified party shall be deemed to recognize all other items of income, gain, loss, deduction or credit before recognizing any item arising from the receipt of any indemnity
payment hereunder or the incurrence or payment of any Losses. Without limiting clause (iii) or (iv), the taking of a Tax deduction in connection with any such damage, loss, liability or expense that is subject to a claim for indemnification
shall be at the discretion of the indemnified party.      (b) Following the Closing, Sellers, Purchaser, the Bank and its
Subsidiaries shall utilize their commercially reasonable best efforts, consistent with normal practices and policies and good commercial practice, to mitigate any amounts payable under  Section 11.2 , including pursuing all reasonable
remedies to collect any proceeds pursuant to Alternative Arrangements covering the Loss that is the subject to the claim for indemnity (provided that the indemnified party shall not be required to institute a lawsuit in respect of any Alternative

81   

Arrangement). If any such proceeds, benefits or recoveries are received by any of the Sellers, Purchaser, the Bank or its Subsidiaries with respect to any
Losses after any of the Sellers, Purchaser, the Bank or its Subsidiaries has received proceeds in respect of such indemnification claim, such Purchaser Indemnified Party or Seller Indemnified Party, as the case may be, shall promptly, but in any
event no later than ten (10) Business Days after the receipt, realization or recovery of such proceeds, benefits or recoveries, pay to Sellers or Purchaser, as the case may be, the amount of such proceeds, benefits or recoveries.      (c) For purposes of determining whether any breach has occurred or for purposes of calculating Losses hereunder, any materiality,
knowledge, Material Adverse Effect or similar qualification contained in the representations and warranties shall be ignored.      (d) No indemnified party will be entitled to indemnification pursuant to this  Article XI  with respect to any indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages, except to the extent that any such indirect, special,
incidental, consequential or punitive damages are awarded to third parties.      11.6.  Tax Treatment of Indemnity Payments . The Sellers
and the Purchaser agree to treat any indemnity payment made pursuant to this  Article XI,  and any payments pursuant to  Section 7.3(g),  as an adjustment to the Consideration for all income tax purposes.      11.7.  Exclusive Remedy . Following the Closing,  Section 8.4  and this  Article XI  shall provide the sole and exclusive remedy for
any and all claims under this Agreement, except in the case of fraud or intentional breach of this Agreement or with respect to matters for which the remedy of specific performance, injunctive relief or other non-monetary equitable remedies are
available.      ARTICLE XII      GENERAL
PROVISIONS      12.1.  Amendment . Subject to compliance with applicable Law, this Agreement may be amended or modified by the parties
hereto at any time. No amendment or modification of any provision of this Agreement shall be effective against the Purchaser or the Sellers unless such amendment or modification is approved by an instrument in writing signed by (a) the
Purchaser, (b) Sellers holding at least 75% of the Purchased Bank Common Shares (as measured at the time of such amendment or modification or, if the amendment occurs following the Closing, at the time immediately prior to Closing), and
(c) to the extent that such proposed amendment would adversely affect the rights of any Seller in a manner disproportionate to any other Seller, that disproportionately affected Seller.      12.2.  Extension; Waiver . At any time prior to the Closing Date, the parties hereto may, to the extent legally allowed, (a) extend the time
for the performance of any of the obligations or other acts of the other parties hereto, (b) waive any inaccuracies in the representations and warranties contained herein or in any document delivered pursuant hereto and (c) waive
compliance with any of the agreements or conditions contained herein. Any agreement on the part of a party hereto to any such extension or waiver shall be valid only if set forth in a written instrument signed on behalf of such party (or, in the
case of a waiver by Sellers, signed by  
       
   82   

Sellers holding at least 75% of the Purchased Bank Common Shares, as measured at the time of such extension or waiver);  provided  that any extension or
waiver that would adversely affect the rights of any Seller in a manner disproportionate to any other Seller shall also require the approval of that disproportionately affected Seller; and  provided further  that any extension or waiver or
failure to insist on strict compliance with an obligation, covenant, agreement or condition shall not operate as a waiver of, or estoppel with respect to, any subsequent or other failure.      12.3.  Expenses . Except as expressly provided in this Agreement, each party hereto shall bear its own expenses (including legal fees and expenses)
with respect to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby; provided, that the legal fees and expenses of Mayer Brown as counsel to the Bank in connection with the Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, including the
transfer of the Excluded Assets are engagements and obligations of the Bank (for the avoidance of doubt, solely to the extent accrued prior to the Closing Date).      12.4.  Assignment . Neither this Agreement nor any of the rights, interests or obligations hereunder shall be assigned, in whole or in part, by any of the parties without the prior written consent of the other
parties;  provided  that such consent shall not be required (i) for assignments and transfers by operation of Law and (ii) in the event the Sellers assign any or all of their rights, interests and obligations hereunder to a Person
with whom the Sellers merge or to whom the Sellers sell all or substantially all of their assets. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Agreement shall be binding upon, inure to the benefit of, and be enforceable by, the parties hereto and their
respective successors and permitted assigns. Any purported assignment not permitted under this section shall be null and void.      12.5.
 Entire Agreement; No Third Party Beneficiaries . This Agreement, together with the Bank Disclosure Schedule, the Purchaser Disclosure Schedule and the Confidentiality Agreement, (a) constitutes the entire agreement, and supersedes all
other prior agreements and understandings, both written and oral, between the parties, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof and (b) are not intended to and shall not confer upon any Person other than the parties
hereto any rights or remedies hereunder.      12.6.  Notices . All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and
shall be deemed given if delivered personally, telecopied (upon confirmation of receipt), on the first Business Day following the date of dispatch if delivered by a recognized next day courier service, or on the third Business Day following the date
of mailing if delivered by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid. All notices hereunder shall be delivered as set forth below, or pursuant to such other instructions as may be designated in writing by the party to
receive such notice.       

(a)  
  if to Sellers, to:        B.F. Saul Real Estate Investment
Trust      7501 Wisconsin Avenue      Bethesda, Maryland 20814      Attn: Thomas H. McCormick      Fax: (240) 497-7310         
   83   

Derwood Investment Corporation      7501 Wisconsin Avenue      Bethesda, Maryland
20814   

Attn:  
  Thomas H. McCormick     
    B.F. Saul Company Employees  Profit
Sharing and Retirement Trust      7501 Wisconsin Avenue      Bethesda, Maryland 20814   

Attn:  
  Thomas H. McCormick     
    with copies to (which shall not constitute notice):
     Mayer Brown LLP      1675
Broadway      New York, NY 10019   

Attn:  
  James B. Carlson     

Edward A. Davis     

(b)  
  if to the Purchaser, to:        Capital One Financial
Corporation      1680 Capital One Drive      McLean, VA 22102   

Attn:  
  Murray Abrams,     

Executive Vice President, Corporate Development     

John G. Finneran, Jr.     

General Counsel and Corporate Secretary     
    with a copy to (which shall not
constitute notice):      Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen   Katz      51 W. 52   nd    Street      New York, NY 10019   

Attn:  
  Richard K. Kim     

Matthew M. Guest     
    12.7.  Interpretation . The
words  hereof,   herein  and  hereunder  and words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement, and Section references are
to this Agreement unless otherwise specified. Whenever the words  include,   includes  or  including  are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words  without limitation.  The term
  person   as used in this Agreement shall mean any individual, corporation, limited liability  
       
   84   

company, limited or general partnership, joint venture, government or any agency or political subdivision thereof, or any other entity or any group (as
defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) comprised of two or more of the foregoing. The table of contents and headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or
interpretation of this Agreement. In this Agreement, all references to  dollars  or  $  are to United States dollars. The term   knowledge ,  when used in this Agreement means, (i) with respect to Sellers or
the Bank, the actual knowledge, after reasonable inquiry in the course of their employment, of the individuals set forth in  Section 12.7  of the Bank Disclosure Schedule, and (ii) with respect to the Purchaser, the actual knowledge,
after reasonable inquiry in the course of their employment, of the individuals set forth in  Section 12.7  of the Purchaser Disclosure Schedule.      12.8.  Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed by facsimile and in counterparts, all of which shall be considered an original and one and the same agreement and shall become effective when counterparts have
been signed by each of the parties and delivered to the other parties, it being understood that all parties need not sign the same counterpart.      12.9.  Governing Law; Consent to Jurisdiction; Waiver of Jury Trial .      (a) This Agreement shall be governed
and construed in accordance with the Laws of the State of New York.      (b) Each of the Purchaser, the Sellers and the Bank
hereby irrevocably and unconditionally consents to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and in the courts hearing appeals therefrom unless no basis for federal
jurisdiction exists, in which event each party hereto irrevocably consents to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the Supreme Court of the State of New York, New York County, and the courts hearing appeals therefrom, for any action, suit or
proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby. Each of the Purchaser, the Sellers and the Bank hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, and agrees not to assert, by way of motion, as a
defense, counterclaim or otherwise, in any such action, suit or proceeding, any claim that it is not personally subject to the jurisdiction of the aforesaid courts for any reason, that it or its property is exempt or immune from jurisdiction of any
such court or from any legal process commenced in such courts (whether through service of notice, attachment prior to judgment, attachment in aid of execution of judgment, execution of judgment or otherwise), and to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable Law, that the action, suit or proceeding in any such court is brought in an inconvenient forum, that the venue of such action, suit or proceeding is improper, or that this Agreement, or the subject matter hereof, may not be enforced in or
by such courts and further irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law, the benefit of any defense that would hinder, fetter or delay the levy, execution or collection of any amount to which the party is entitled pursuant
to the final judgment of any court having jurisdiction. Each of the Purchaser, the Sellers and the Bank irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law, any and all rights to trial by jury in connection with
any action, suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.         
   85   

12.10.  Specific Performance . Each of the Sellers and the Purchaser agree that irreparable damage
would occur if any of the provisions of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with their specific terms on a timely basis or were otherwise breached. It is accordingly agreed that the Sellers and the Purchaser shall be entitled to
injunctive or other equitable relief to prevent breaches of this Agreement and to enforce specifically the terms and provisions of this Agreement in any court identified in  Section 12.9  above, this being in addition to any other remedy
to which they are entitled at law or in equity.      12.11.  Severability . Any term or provision of this Agreement which is determined by
a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to that jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity or unenforceability without rendering invalid, illegal or unenforceable the
remaining terms and provisions of this Agreement or affecting the validity, legality or enforceability of any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement in any other jurisdiction, and if any provision of this Agreement is determined to be so broad
as to be unenforceable, the provision shall be interpreted to be only so broad as is enforceable, in all cases so long as neither the economic nor legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is affected in any manner materially adverse
to any party or its shareholders. Upon any such determination, the parties shall negotiate in good faith in an effort to agree upon a suitable and equitable substitute provision to effect the original intent of the parties.      12.12.  Publicity . The Sellers and the Purchaser shall consult with each other before issuing any press release with respect to this Agreement and
the transactions contemplated hereby and shall not issue any such press release or make any such public statement without the prior consent of the other party, which shall not be unreasonably withheld;  provided ,  however , that a party
may, without the prior consent of the other party (but after prior consultation, to the extent practicable in the circumstances) issue such press release or make such public statement as may be required by Law or the rules and regulations of the New
York Stock Exchange. Without limiting the reach of the preceding sentence, the Sellers and the Purchaser shall cooperate to develop all public announcement materials and make appropriate management available at presentations related to the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement as reasonably requested by the other party. In addition, the Purchaser and its Subsidiaries shall consult with Sellers regarding communications with customers, stockholders, prospective investors and
employees related to the transactions contemplated hereby.      12.13.  Construction . This Agreement and any documents or instruments
delivered pursuant hereto or in connection herewith shall be construed without regard to the identity of the person who drafted the various provisions of the same. Each and every provision of this Agreement and such other documents and instruments
shall be construed as though all of the parties participated equally in the drafting of the same. Consequently, the parties acknowledge and agree that any rule of construction that a document is to be construed against the drafting party shall not
be applicable either to this Agreement or such other documents and instruments.        [ Remainder of page intentionally left
blank ]           
   86   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Sellers and the Purchaser have caused this Agreement to be executed by their
respective officers hereunto duly authorized as of the date first above written.        

B.F. SAUL REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUST   

By:  

Name:   

Title:   

DERWOOD INVESTMENT CORPORATION   

By:  

Name:   

Title:   

B.F. SAUL EMPLOYEES  PROFIT SHARING AND RETIREMENT TRUST   

By:  

Name:   

Title:   

CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION   

By:  

Name:   

Title:   

For purposes of  Section 7.20  only:   

B. FRANCIS SAUL II   

[Stock Purchase Agreement Signature Page]         
   87   

</EX-2.4>

<EX-12>
 3
 dex12.htm
 EXHIBIT 12

Exhibit 12 

Exhibit 12        Exhibit 12: Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges        

(1)  
  Based on continuing operations.     

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 4
 dex21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

Exhibit 21 

Exhibit 21       Significant Subsidiaries      Capital One Bank, (USA), National Association      Capital One N.A.   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 dex23.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

Exhibit 23 

Exhibit 23       Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm      We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statements, as listed below, of Capital One Financial Corporation and in the related Prospectuses, where applicable, of our reports dated February 26, 2009 with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Capital One Financial
Corporation and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Capital One Financial Corporation, included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended December 31, 2008.       
    /s/ ERNST   YOUNG LLP      February 26, 2009   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 dex311.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

Exhibit 31.1 

Exhibit 31.1        CERTIFICATION FOR ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K OF CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES       I, Richard D. Fairbank,
certify that:      1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Capital One Financial Corporation;      2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible
for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the
registrant and have:      (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;      (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
     (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions
about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and      (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of
the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):      (a) All significant deficiencies and material
weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting.      Date: February 26, 2009        

By:  
     
  /s/ R ICHARD  D. F AIRBANK    

Richard D. Fairbank       Chairman of the Board,
Chief Executive Officer       and President     

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 dex312.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

Exhibit 31.2 

Exhibit 31.2        CERTIFICATION FOR ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K OF CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES       I, Gary L. Perlin, certify
that:      1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Capital One Financial Corporation;      2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible
for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the
registrant and have:      (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;      (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
     (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions
about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and      (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of
the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):      (a) All significant deficiencies and material
weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting.      Date: February 26, 2009        

By:  
     
  /s/ G ARY  L. P ERLIN    

Gary L. Perlin       Chief Financial Officer
and       Principal Accounting Officer     

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 dex321.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

Exhibit 32.1 

Exhibit 32.1        CERTIFICATION        PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002        (SUBSECTIONS (A) AND (B) OF SECTION 1350, CHAPTER 63 OF TITLE 18, UNITED STATES CODE)       Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Subsections (a) and (b) of Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United States Code), I, Richard D. Fairbank, Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer of Capital One Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation ( Capital One ), do hereby certify that:      The Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the period ended December 31, 2008 (the  Form 10-K ) of Capital One fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents,
in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Capital One.      Dated: February 26, 2009        

By:  
     
  /s/ R ICHARD  D. F AIRBANK    

Richard D. Fairbank       Chairman of the Board,
Chief Executive       Officer and President     

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 9
 dex322.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

Exhibit 32.2 

Exhibit 32.2        CERTIFICATION        PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002        (SUBSECTIONS (A) AND (B) OF SECTION 1350, CHAPTER 63 OF TITLE 18, UNITED STATES CODE)       Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Subsections (a) and (b) of Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United States Code), I, Gary L. Perlin, Chief Financial Officer and
Principal Accounting Officer of Capital One Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation ( Capital One ), do hereby certify that:      The Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2008 (the  Form 10-K ) of Capital One fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and information contained in the
Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Capital One.      Dated: February 26, 2009

By:  
     
  /s/ G ARY  L. P ERLIN    

Gary L. Perlin       Chief Financial Officer
and       Principal Accounting Officer     
 
   A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Capital One
and will be retained by Capital One and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.2>

