<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20101026_10-K_edgar_data_1467373_0001193125-10-235847_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>16059921</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>403264</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>2973233</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1418778</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>3998544</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>6970746</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>77</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-10-235847.hdr.sgml : 20101026
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20101025190601
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-10-235847
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		15
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20100831
FILED AS OF DATE:		20101026
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20101025

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			Accenture plc
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001467373
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-BUSINESS SERVICES, NEC [7389]
		IRS NUMBER:				980627530
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			L2
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0831

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-34448
		FILM NUMBER:		101140662

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1 GRAND CANAL SQUARE
		STREET 2:		GRAND CANAL HARBOUR
		CITY:			DUBLIN
		STATE:			L2
		ZIP:			D2
		BUSINESS PHONE:		353-1-646-2000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1 GRAND CANAL SQUARE
		STREET 2:		GRAND CANAL HARBOUR
		CITY:			DUBLIN
		STATE:			L2
		ZIP:			D2

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Sd5APBrHi2V5p8DkyoewNoPV1drWk9EYBhE8O7/0FmHkWO2b8SyGAyW0hWo0aY51
 YrgBwF3R6nSpfU0znYHcYQ==

 0001193125-10-235847.txt : 20101026

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549         
    
   FORM 10-K        (Mark
One)    
 
   For the fiscal year ended August 31, 2010        OR        

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 for the transition period
from                 to                 .      
   Commission File Number: 001-34448         
        Accenture
plc        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)    

Ireland   
     
   98-0627530    
 
     (State or other jurisdiction of   
   incorporation or organization)    
     
   (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)         1 Grand Canal Square,        Grand Canal Harbour,    
   Dublin 2, Ireland        (Address of principal executive offices)        (353) (1) 646-2000
       (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)    
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   

Title of Each Class    
      
     Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered     
 
  Class A ordinary shares, par value $0.0000225 per share  
      
  New York Stock Exchange         
       Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:      Class X ordinary shares, par value $0.0000225 per share   
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes          No       
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934.    Yes           No       
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.    Yes          No       
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes           No          Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.             Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting
company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):       

Large accelerated filer       
     
  Accelerated filer       
     
  Non-accelerated filer       
     
  Smaller Reporting Company        

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  
     
       Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act.)    Yes        No          The aggregate market value of the common equity of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant on February 28, 2010 was approximately $25,444,155,563 based on the closing price of the
registrant s Class A ordinary shares, par value $0.0000225 per share, reported on the New York Stock Exchange on such date of $39.97 per share and on the par value of the registrant s Class X ordinary shares, par value $0.0000225
per share.      The number of shares of the registrant s Class A ordinary shares, par value $0.0000225 per share,
outstanding as of October 12, 2010 was 633,923,145 (which number does not include 71,541,275 issued shares held by subsidiaries of the registrant). The number of shares of the registrant s Class X ordinary shares, par value $0.0000225
per share, outstanding as of October 12, 2010 was 62,529,129.       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE    
  Portions of the definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A
relating to the registrant s Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on February 3, 2011, will be incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K in response to Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of Part III. The definitive proxy statement
will be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after the registrant s fiscal year ended August 31, 2010.       

Table of Contents  

TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Page   

Part I     

Item 1.   
      
     Business    

1  

Item 1A.   
      
     Risk Factors    

18  

Item 1B.   
      
     Unresolved Staff Comments    

35  

Item 2.   
      
     Properties    

35  

Item 3.   
      
     Legal Proceedings    

35  

Item 4.   
      
     (Removed and Reserved)    

36  

Part II    

Item 5.   
      
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

39  

Item 6.   
      
     Selected Financial Data    

43  

Item 7.   
      
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    

44  

Item 7A.   
      
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk    

68  

Item 8.   
      
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    

69  

Item 9.   
      
     Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure    

69  

Item 9A.   
      
     Controls and Procedures    

69  

Item 9B.   
      
     Other Information    

70  

Part III    

Item 10.   
      
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    

71  

Item 11.   
      
     Executive Compensation    

71  

Item 12.   
      
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters   

71  

Item 13.   
      
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    

72  

Item 14.   
      
     Principal Accounting Fees and Services    

72  

Part IV    

Item 15.   
      
     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules     

73  

Signatures     

76  

Table of Contents  

        PART I
       Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements       This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(the  Exchange Act ) relating to our operations, results of operations and other matters that are based on our current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections. Words such as  may,   will, 
 should,   likely,   anticipates,   expects,   intends,   plans,   projects,   believes,   estimates  and similar expressions are used to identify these
forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions as to future events that
might not prove to be accurate. Actual outcomes and results could differ materially from what is expressed or forecast in these forward-looking statements. Risks, uncertainties and other factors that might cause such differences, some of which could
be material, include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below under the section entitled  Risk Factors.  Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and we undertake
no obligation to update them.       Available Information       Our website address is www.accenture.com. We use our website as a channel of distribution for company information. We make available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our website
(http://investor.accenture.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically
filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. We also make available through our website other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under
the Exchange Act, including our proxy statements and reports filed by officers and directors under Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act, as well as our Code of Business Ethics. Financial and other material information regarding us is routinely
posted on and accessible at http://investor.accenture.com. We do not intend for information contained in our website to be part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.      Any materials we file with the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC, 20549. Information on the operation of the Public
Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically
with the SEC.      In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we use the terms  Accenture,   we,  the
 Company,   our  and  us  to refer to Accenture plc and its subsidiaries or, prior to September 1, 2009, to Accenture Ltd and its subsidiaries. All references to years, unless otherwise noted, refer to our fiscal
year, which ends on August 31.         ITEM 1.    BUSINESS    
   Overview       We are one of
the world s leading management consulting, technology services and outsourcing organizations, with approximately 204,000 employees; offices and operations in more than 200 cities in 53 countries; and revenues before reimbursements ( net
revenues ) of $21.55 billion for fiscal 2010.      Our  high performance business  strategy builds on our expertise
in consulting, technology and outsourcing to help clients perform at higher levels so they can create sustainable value for their customers, stakeholders and shareholders. We use our industry and business-process knowledge, our
  
         1   

Table of Contents  

service offering expertise and our insight into and deep understanding of emerging technologies to identify new business and technology trends and formulate and implement solutions for clients
under demanding time constraints. We help clients improve operational performance, deliver their products and services more effectively and efficiently, increase revenues in existing markets and identify and enter new markets.   
  We operate globally with one common brand and business model designed to enable us to provide clients around the world with the same high
level of service. Drawing on a combination of industry expertise, functional capabilities, alliances, global resources and technology, we deliver competitively priced, high-value services that help our clients measurably improve business
performance. Our global delivery model enables us to provide a complete end-to-end delivery capability by drawing on our global resources to deliver high-quality, cost-effective solutions to clients under demanding timeframes.   
  In fiscal 2010, we introduced a strategy that focuses on driving growth across three dimensions: our core business, which includes the
vast majority of management consulting, technology and outsourcing services that we have traditionally provided through our operating groups and growth platforms; new business initiatives including analytics, digital marketing, mobility, smart
grid and sustainability, as well as new technology areas such as cloud computing, cyber security and many others that we are building on top of our core business; and geographic expansion, particularly in our strategic growth markets of Brazil,
Russia, India, China, South Korea and Mexico.        Consulting, Technology and Outsourcing Services and Solutions     
  Our business is structured around five operating groups, which together comprise 19 industry groups serving clients in major industries
around the world. Our industry focus gives us an understanding of industry evolution, business issues and applicable technologies, enabling us to deliver innovative solutions tailored to each client or, as appropriate, more-standardized capabilities
to multiple clients.      Our three growth platforms management consulting, technology and business process
outsourcing are the innovation engines through which we develop our knowledge capital; build world-class skills and capabilities; and create, acquire and manage key assets central to the development of solutions for our clients. The subject
matter experts within these areas work closely with the professionals in our operating groups to develop and deliver solutions to clients. Client engagement teams which typically consist of industry experts, capability specialists and
professionals with local market knowledge leverage the full capabilities of our global delivery model to deliver price-competitive solutions and services. In certain instances our client engagement teams include subcontractors, who supplement
our professionals with additional resources in a specific skill, service or product area, as needed.   
         2   

Table of Contents  

         Operating Groups
       The following table shows the current organization of our five operating groups and their 19 industry groups. For
financial reporting purposes, our operating groups are our reportable operating segments. We do not allocate total assets by operating group, although our operating groups do manage and control certain assets. For certain historical financial
information regarding our operating groups (including certain asset information), as well as financial information by geography (including long-lived asset information), see Note 16 (Segment Reporting) to our Consolidated Financial Statements below
under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.         

Operating
Groups      
 
      Communications           High Tech     
     
      Financial    
    Services     
     
    Health   Public Service    
     
    Products    
     
    Resources     

Communications  
     Electronics   High Tech  
     Media   Entertainment   
     
       Banking  
     Capital Markets  
     Insurance   
     
       Health  
     Public Service   
     
       Automotive  
     Air, Freight   Travel Services  
     Consumer Goods   Services  
     Industrial Equipment  
     Infrastructure   Transportation Services  
     Life Sciences  
     Retail   
     
       Chemicals  
     Energy  
     Natural Resources  
     Utilities     

    Communications   High Tech        We are a leading provider of management consulting, technology, systems integration and outsourcing services and solutions to the communications, electronics, high technology, media and entertainment
industries. Our Communications   High Tech professionals help clients leverage innovation and enhance their business results through industry-specific solutions and by seizing the opportunities made possible by the convergence of
communications, computing and content. Examples of our services and solutions include the application of mobile technology, broadband and Internet protocol solutions, advanced advertising solutions, cloud computing application architecture, product
innovation and digital rights management as well as systems integration, customer care, supply chain and workforce transformation services. In support of these services, we selectively pursue strategic acquisitions and have developed an array of
assets, repeatable solutions, methodologies and research facilities to demonstrate how new technologies and industry-leading practices can be applied in new and innovative ways to enhance our clients  business performance.   
  Our Communications   High Tech operating group comprises the following industry groups:   

Communications.      Our Communications industry group serves many of the world s leading wireline, wireless,
cable and satellite communications and service providers. We provide a wide range of services designed to help our communications clients increase margins, improve asset utilization, improve customer retention, increase revenues, reduce overall
costs and accelerate sales cycles. We offer a comprehensive solutions portfolio designed to address major business and operational issues related to sales and service channels, new product innovation, network functions, corporate functions and
information technology. Our Communications industry group represented approximately 56% of our Communications   High Tech operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2010.      

Electronics   High Tech.      Our Electronics   High Tech industry group serves the communications
technology, consumer technology, enterprise technology, semiconductor,      
         3   

Table of Contents  

software and aerospace/defense segments. This industry group provides services in areas such as strategy, engineering services, enterprise resource management, customer relationship management,
embedded software solutions, sales transformation, supply chain management, embedded software development, human performance, and merger/acquisition activities, including post-merger integration. We also offer a suite of reusable solutions designed
to address the industry s major business and operational challenges, such as new product innovation and development, customer service and support, sales and marketing, and global sales and operations effectiveness. Our Electronics  
High Tech industry group represented approximately 35% of our Communications   High Tech operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2010.          

Media   Entertainment.      Our Media   Entertainment industry group serves the broadcast,
entertainment (television, music and movie), print, publishing and portal industries. Professionals in this industry group provide a wide range of services, including digital marketing, performance advertising, digital rights management, and digital
content and media technologies to help clients effectively manage, access, distribute and protect content across multiple platforms and devices. We also provide additional comprehensive turn-key solutions through Origin Digital and Digiplug,
specialized Accenture units that help content owners and distributors adapt business processes and systems to enable digital monetization.           Financial Services        Our Financial Services operating group focuses
on the opportunities created by our clients  needs to adapt to changing market conditions, including increased cost pressures, industry consolidation, regulatory changes, the creation of common industry standards and protocols, and the move to
a more integrated industry model. We help clients meet these challenges through a variety of assets, such as proprietary software, services and solutions, including consulting and outsourcing strategies to increase cost efficiency and transform
businesses, and customer relationship management initiatives that enable them to acquire and retain profitable customers and improve their cross-selling capabilities. Our Financial Services operating group comprises the following industry groups:

Banking.      Our Banking industry group works with retail and commercial banks and diversified financial enterprises.
We help these organizations develop and execute strategies to target, acquire and retain customers more effectively; expand product and service offerings; manage risk; comply with new regulatory initiatives; support integration related to mergers
and acquisitions; and leverage new technologies and distribution channels. Our Banking industry group represented approximately 56% of our Financial Services operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2010.      

Capital Markets.      Our Capital Markets industry group helps investment banks, broker/dealers, asset-management
firms, depositories, exchanges and clearing   settlement organizations transform their businesses to increase competitiveness. For example, we help clients develop and implement innovative trading, asset-management and
market-information-management systems and solutions.          

Insurance.      Our Insurance industry group helps property   casualty insurers, life insurers, reinsurance
firms and insurance brokers improve business processes, modernize their technologies and improve the quality and consistency of risk selection decisions. We offer a claims management capability that enables insurers to provide better customer
service while optimizing claims costs, as well as industry-leading insurance policy administration technology solutions that enable insurers to bring products to market more quickly and reduce costs. We also provide a variety of outsourcing
solutions to help insurers improve working capital and cash flow, deliver permanent cost savings and enhance long-term growth. Our Insurance industry group represented approximately 30% of our Financial Services operating group s net revenues
in fiscal 2010.      
         4   

Table of Contents  

Health   Public Service        Our Health   Public Service operating group comprises the following industry groups:       

Health.      Health-service organizations are under enormous pressure to reduce costs, improve the access and quality
of healthcare services, and meet ever-growing government and regulatory requirements. Through our Connected Health initiative, our Health industry group works with healthcare providers, government health departments, policy-making
authorities/regulators, managed care organizations, health insurers and other industry-related organizations to improve the quality, accessibility and affordability of healthcare. Our key offerings address a variety of areas, including electronic
health records and health information exchanges; back-office services for hospitals and health plans; sales   marketing; core administration services; health management services; claims excellence/cost containment; and corporate functions,
including human resources, finance, procurement and information technology ( IT ).          

Public Service.      Our Public Service industry group provides services designed to help public-service entities
around the world increase the efficiency of their operations, improve service delivery to citizens, and reduce their overall costs to address significant budget deficits. We work primarily with defense, revenue, human services, health, postal, and
justice and public-safety authorities or agencies, and our clients are generally national, state or local-level government organizations, as well as pan-geographic organizations. Our offerings help public-sector clients address some of their most
pressing needs, including developing modern tax systems that help increase compliance and enhance revenues; ensuring the security of citizens and businesses; and improving the delivery of human services to eligible recipients. We work with clients
to transform their customer-facing and back-office operations and enable services to be delivered through appropriate technologies that make government more accessible, in a manner consistent with expectations established in the private sector. Our
Public Service industry group represented approximately 76% of our Health   Public Service operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2010. In addition, our work with clients in the U.S. federal government represented approximately 32%
of our Health   Public Service operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2010.           Products
       Our Products operating group comprises the following industry groups:   

Air Freight   Travel Services.      Our Air Freight   Travel Services industry group serves airlines,
freight and logistics companies across all modes of transport, and travel services companies, including hotels, tour operators, rental car companies and cruise operators. We help clients increase organizational effectiveness by developing and
implementing more-efficient networks, integrating supply chains, developing procurement strategies, and building improved customer-relationship-management capabilities. We also offer industry-specific solutions, such as Navitaire for the airline
industry and a proprietary end-to-end shipment-management solution for the freight and logistics industry.          

Automotive.      Our Automotive industry group works with auto manufacturers, dealers, retailers and service providers.
We help clients develop and implement innovative solutions focused on product development and commercialization, customer service and retention, channel strategy and management, branding, buyer-driven business models, cost reduction, customer
relationship management and integrated supplier partnerships.          

Consumer Goods   Services.      Our Consumer Goods   Services industry group serves food and
beverage, alcoholic beverage, household goods and personal care, tobacco and fashion/apparel manufacturers and agribusiness and consumer health companies around the world. Our
     
         5   

Table of Contents  

service offerings are designed to help these companies enhance their performance by addressing critical elements of success, including large-scale enterprise resource planning (ERP) strategy and
implementation, sales and marketing transformation, working-capital productivity improvement and supply chain collaboration. We also help clients build operating models that facilitate end-to-end processes focused on improved outcomes for users,
employees, customers and suppliers. Our Consumer Goods   Services industry group represented approximately 31% of our Products operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2010.      

Industrial Equipment.      Our Industrial Equipment industry group serves the industrial and electrical equipment,
automotive supplier, consumer durable and heavy equipment industries. We help our clients increase operating and supply chain efficiencies by improving processes and leveraging technology. We also help clients generate value from strategic mergers
and acquisitions. In addition, our Industrial Equipment industry group develops and deploys innovative solutions in the areas of cloud computing, channel management, collaborative product design, remote field maintenance, enterprise application
integration and outsourcing.          

Infrastructure   Transportation Services.      Our Infrastructure   Transportation Services industry
group serves companies in the construction, infrastructure-management (ports, airports, seaports and road-tolling facilities) and mass-transportation industries. We help clients develop and implement strategies and solutions to improve their
information technology and customer-relationship-management capabilities, operate more-efficient networks, integrate supply chains, develop procurement and electronic business marketplace strategies, and more effectively manage maintenance, repair
and overhaul processes and expenses all in the context of increasing priorities around mobility services and sustainability. Leveraging our mass transport, construction and engineering experience, we also provide transport-infrastructure
(railroad, airport, seaport) and urban-infrastructure services, including project management, fare management and transport operations services.          

Life Sciences.      Our Life Sciences industry group works with pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical products and
other companies across the life-sciences value chain, providing services such as large-scale business and technology transformation, targeted business performance improvement, and post-merger integration. Our key areas of focus include research and
development, supply chain, manufacturing, marketing and sales, and select back-office functions. Additionally, we operate life sciences-specific business process and IT outsourcing services across all geographies in the global industry.

Retail.      Our Retail industry group serves a wide spectrum of retailers and distributors, including supermarkets,
department stores, specialty premium retailers and large mass-merchandise discounters. We provide service offerings that help clients address new ways of reaching the retail trade and consumers through precision marketing; maximize brand synergies
and cost reductions in mergers and acquisitions; improve supply chain efficiencies through collaborative commerce business models; and enhance the efficiency of internal operations.      
    Resources        Our Resources operating group serves the chemicals, energy, forest products, metals and mining, utilities and related industries. With market conditions driving energy companies to seek new ways of
creating value for shareholders, deregulation and climate change fundamentally reforming the utilities industry and yielding cross-border opportunities, and an intensive focus on productivity and portfolio management in the chemicals and natural
resources industries, we are working with clients to create innovative solutions that are designed to help them differentiate themselves in the marketplace and gain competitive advantage. These include helping global energy companies optimize
existing upstream and   
         6   

Table of Contents  

downstream operations while securing their upstream positions; helping utilities clients deal with deregulation; helping metals and mining clients globalize their business models; helping
chemicals clients decrease operations costs; and working with clients across all industry segments on the  green agenda  to enable them to meet emission targets and increase energy efficiency. Our Resources operating group comprises the
following industry groups:       

Chemicals.      Our Chemicals industry group works with a wide cross-section of industry segments, including
petrochemicals, specialty chemicals, polymers and plastics, gases and agricultural chemical companies, among others. We help chemical companies develop and implement new business strategies, redesign business processes, manage complex change
initiatives, and integrate processes and technologies to achieve higher levels of performance. We also have long-term outsourcing contracts with many industry leaders.      

Energy.      Our Energy industry group serves a wide range of companies in the oil and gas industry, including
upstream, downstream, oil services and clean-energy companies. Our key areas of focus include helping clients optimize production, manage their hydrocarbon and non-hydrocarbon supply chains, streamline marketing operations and realize the full
potential of third-party enterprise-wide technology solutions. In addition, our multi-client outsourcing centers enable clients to increase operational efficiencies and exploit cross-industry synergies. Our Energy industry group represented
approximately 31% of our Resources operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2010.          

Natural Resources.      Our Natural Resources industry group serves the metals, mining, forest products and building
materials industries. We help our clients which include mining companies in the coal, iron ore, copper and precious metals sectors; steel and aluminum producers; and lumber, pulp, papermaking, converting and packaging companies develop and
implement new business strategies, redesign business processes, manage complex change initiatives, and integrate processes and technologies to achieve higher levels of performance.      

Utilities.      Our Utilities industry group works with electric, gas and water utilities around the world to respond
to an evolving and highly competitive marketplace. The group s work includes helping utilities transform themselves from regulated, and sometimes state-owned, local entities to international deregulated corporations, as well as developing
diverse products and service offerings to help our clients deliver higher levels of service to their customers. These offerings include customer relationship management, workforce enablement, smart-grid development, supply chain optimization, and
trading and risk management. We also provide a range of outsourced customer-care services to utilities and retail energy companies in North America. Our Utilities industry group represented approximately 40% of our Resources operating group s
net revenues in fiscal 2010.           Growth Platforms     
  Our management consulting, technology and business process outsourcing ( BPO ) growth platforms are the skill-based
 innovation engines  through which we develop our knowledge capital; build world-class skills and capabilities; and create, acquire and manage key assets central to the development of solutions for our clients. The professionals within
these areas work closely with our operating groups to deliver integrated services and solutions to clients.        Management
Consulting        Our management consulting growth platform is responsible for the development and delivery of our strategic,
operational, functional, industry, process and change consulting capabilities, working closely with the professionals in our operating groups and the other growth platforms. Our management   
         7   

Table of Contents  

consulting professionals help large, complex organizations design and execute changes to their business and operating models, either for one or more critical business units or across the entire
organization.      This growth platform comprises seven service lines:   

Customer Relationship Management.      The professionals in our Customer Relationship Management ( CRM )
service line help companies acquire, develop and retain more profitable customer relationships. We offer a full range of innovative capabilities that address every aspect of CRM, including marketing, direct and indirect sales, customer service,
field support and customer contact operations. These capabilities include rigorous approaches to improving the return on marketing investment, methods for building insight into customers  purchase habits and service preferences, tailoring
offers and service treatment based upon that insight, and unique methods of optimizing the quality, cost and revenue impact of sales and service operations. We use these skills to help our clients accelerate growth, improve marketing and sales
productivity and reduce customer-care costs thus increasing the value of their customer relationships and enhancing the economic value of their brands.      

Finance   Performance Management.      The professionals in our Finance   Performance Management
service line work with our clients  finance and business-unit executives to develop financial transaction processing, corporate finance and business performance reporting capabilities. Among the services we provide are strategic consulting on
the design and structure of the finance function and the establishment of shared service centers. Our finance capability services also address revenue cycle management, billing, credit and collection effectiveness, electronic invoicing and
settlement, tax processing, treasury operations, trading operations, lending and debt recovery. Our performance management services address shareholder value targeting, scorecard and performance metrics development, performance reporting solutions
and applied business analytics to improve profitability. Our professionals work with finance executives to develop and implement solutions that help them align their companies  investments with their business objectives and establish security
relating to the exchange of information to reporting institutions.          

Process   Innovation Performance.      The Process   Innovation Performance service line helps
clients achieve measurable, lasting improvements in operational performance, innovation performance and growth. Taking an end-to-end, process-based approach, professionals in this service line help clients address key business challenges such as
complexity management, lean manufacturing and operations, process innovation, strategic cost reduction and growth through innovation.          

Risk Management.      The professionals in our Risk Management service line, which we established in February 2010,
work with clients to develop risk management capabilities to help protect and grow the economic value of their organizations. Our Risk Management services help our clients align business strategy and risk capabilities to evaluate market options and
drive profitable growth; develop a risk-conscious culture across their organizations; adapt to industry and geographic regulations to drive positive business impact; and develop capabilities to collect, model and analyze business information for
better risk-based decision making.          

Strategy.      Our Strategy professionals combine their strategy and operations experience to help clients turn
insights into results at both the enterprise and business-unit level. With deep skills and capabilities in corporate strategy, corporate restructuring, growth and innovation strategies, mergers and acquisitions, merger integration, organization
strategy, pricing strategy and profitability assessment, we help clients develop and execute pragmatic ways to transform organizations and drive sustained high performance.      
         8   

Table of Contents  

Supply Chain Management.      The professionals in our Supply Chain Management service line work with clients across a
broad range of industries to develop and implement supply chain and operations strategies that enable profitable growth in new and existing markets. Our professionals combine global industry expertise and skills in supply chain strategy, sourcing
and procurement, supply chain planning, manufacturing and design, fulfillment and service management to help organizations achieve high performance. We work with clients to align operating models to support business strategies; optimize global
operations; support profitable product launches; and enhance the skills and capabilities of the supply chain workforce.          

Talent   Organization Performance.      The professionals in our Talent   Organization Performance
service line work with clients on a wide range of talent management, workforce and organizational issues to deliver improved business and operational results. Our integrated approach and end-to-end capabilities include services and solutions in
organization and change management, human resources administration, learning, knowledge management, organizational performance management, talent management and overall transformation of key workforces. We help companies and governments improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of their human resources services while lowering associated costs; deliver improvements in employee and workforce performance; and transform organizations through project-, program- and enterprise-level change
management.           Technology     
  Our technology growth platform comprises three service areas: systems integration consulting, technology consulting, and IT outsourcing.
       Systems Integration Consulting        Our key systems integration consulting services and solutions include:       

Enterprise Solutions and Enterprise Resource Planning.      We implement a variety of application
software including SAP and Oracle, among others to streamline business processes, systems and information and help organizations access, manage and exploit data to make more-informed business decisions. Our skilled professionals provide
planning, implementation, change management and upgrade solutions across the primary application software product suites that underpin all major business functions.      

Industry and Functional Solutions.      We provide clients with robust, large-scale industry and functional solutions
based on proprietary reusable assets, aggregated into industry solutions, such as the Accenture Communications Solutions suite for communications providers and the Accenture Revenue Solution suite for tax offices, as well as solutions for major
industry-specific requirements. We also provide specialized services and solutions to support specific business functions, including finance and planning, customer relationship management, supply chain and human resource management.

Information Management Services.      We provide services to help organizations manage the full range of their
information needs to improve data quality, enhance decision-making capabilities and meet compliance requirements. Our services include business intelligence as well as unstructured content management and portals; data management and data quality
solutions; and information architecture development. Our information management assets complement and are embedded in our industry and functional solutions.      

Cloud Computing.      We help client CIOs and business leaders use cloud computing to enable improvement in IT
efficiency and agility. Accenture guides organizations through the      
         9   

Table of Contents  

integration of cloud-based services to deliver short-term cost savings and longer-term enhancements to their application portfolios and IT infrastructures.      

Custom Solutions.      With deep skills and expertise in both J2EE (Java-based) and .NET technology architectures, we
work with clients to develop custom solutions that meet unique business needs, often using open-source technology products and platforms.          

Software as a Service (SaaS).      We help clients implement SaaS solutions to meet their business needs with the added
benefits of increasing flexibility and reducing total cost of ownership. Our services include requirements definition, design, configuration, testing, change management, data conversion and integration.      

Mobility Solutions.      We help clients develop solutions that give their workforces access to key enterprise
applications including online trading and wealth management, supply chain management, telematics, radio frequency identification, field-force enablement and customer relationship management through mobile devices and/or the Internet. These
solutions enable clients to improve efficiency, lower costs, enhance differentiation and ensure compliance.          

Microsoft Solutions.      Together with our alliance partner Microsoft and our Avanade subsidiary, we develop and
deliver cost-efficient, innovative business solutions based on Microsoft Windows Server and other .NET technologies, leveraging our deep industry expertise and practical applications of leading-edge technologies.      
    Technology Consulting        Our key technology consulting services and solutions include:       

IT Strategy   Transformation.      We help client CEOs and CIOs link IT investments to business results and
help manage those investments to ensure that planned business impact is achieved. We also help CIOs transform how IT works, both internally and with business partners, so that IT is  run like a business  to deliver high performance.

Enterprise Architecture.      We provide solutions that integrate IT with business capabilities to provide clients with
seamless operating environments. Our solutions provide a reference point for measuring both IT investment and results, creating the delivery roadmap that defines how IT systems need to change to drive future business growth and higher performance.

Infrastructure Consulting.      We provide solutions to help clients optimize their IT infrastructures while reducing
costs. From data center, operations engineering and enterprise network design and implementation to desktop solutions, our services enable clients to rationalize, standardize, optimize, secure and transform their IT infrastructures for improved
performance of mission-critical business processes, applications and end users.          

IT Security Consulting.      Our solutions help clients forge secure business environments that enable them to grow
their capabilities and become more agile in response to changing market forces and evolving threats all without incurring additional complexity. Working with us, our clients are better able to secure data and applications, protect identities,
address threats and vulnerabilities, and meet stringent compliance demands while reducing costs and improving efficiency.          

Application Portfolio Optimization and Renewal.      We specialize in defining and executing strategies that transform
our clients  application portfolios into rationalized, flexible, cost-efficient and reliable assets. Our services and solutions help clients define and implement innovative approaches to extending the useful life of legacy applications at a
significantly reduced cost compared with replacement, rapidly turning around non-performing systems and migrating      
         10   

Table of Contents  

custom solutions written in vintage languages or hosted on retiring platforms to more modern, sustainable solutions. Our capabilities combine deeply skilled professionals with a suite of renewal
tools that accelerate and automate the portfolio optimization process.          

Digital Solutions.      We provide clients with solutions that move more of their business and internal operations
online to improve productivity, manage costs and drive revenue growth. We help clients define their online strategies, improve customer experiences and identify areas for website optimization. We also help them incorporate next-generation digital
technology such as wikis, blogs, crowd-sourcing and mash-ups, among others to create significant opportunities for collaboration and sharing with their employees, suppliers and customers.      

Research   Development.      Through Accenture Technology Labs our research and development
organization we use new and emerging technologies to develop business solutions that we believe will be the drivers of our clients  growth and enable them to be first to market with unique capabilities. Key areas of research and
development for clients include information insight, collaboration, biometrics, virtualized infrastructures, predictive maintenance, Web 2.0, cloud computing and sensor technologies, among others.      

Microsoft Solutions.      Together with our alliance partner Microsoft and our Avanade subsidiary, we design and
provide cost-efficient, innovative business solutions based on Microsoft Windows Server and other .NET technologies, leveraging our deep industry expertise and practical applications of leading-edge technologies.      
    IT Outsourcing        Our approach to IT outsourcing goes beyond traditional cost-cutting measures to help clients improve the total performance of application and infrastructure development and maintenance. We provide the
full range of application outsourcing and infrastructure outsourcing services and solutions:       

Application Outsourcing.      We provide a wide array of application outsourcing services under flexible arrangements,
managing custom or packaged software applications including enterprise-wide applications such as SAP and Oracle over their complete development and maintenance life-cycles. Our scope of services ranges from standardized, discrete
application outsourcing services including application testing, application management of enterprise-wide software programs and capacity services to large-scale application enhancement and development for individual or multiple
applications, or an entire portfolio of applications. We can also take end-to-end responsibility for all of a client s IT function, including infrastructure and operations, leveraging our shared-services delivery groups and our application and
infrastructure transformation consulting expertise to deliver significant gains in client productivity, providing services from a variety of locations, including lower-cost locations.      

Infrastructure Outsourcing.      We provide ongoing management of clients  IT infrastructure capabilities and
functions, with expertise in six service areas: service desk; workplace services; data-center services; network services; security services; and IT spend management. We provide discrete skills (i.e., capacity services) as well as fully managed
services. Our services offer clients a more cost-effective, secure and responsive infrastructure that can be scaled and adapted to their business needs. We provide these services either through our own centers and capabilities or in conjunction with
our strategic subcontractors.           Business Process Outsourcing     
  Our business process outsourcing growth platform provides business processes that help clients transform their businesses, achieve higher
levels of performance and results, and/or reduce costs.   
         11   

Table of Contents  

Through our BPO services, we manage specific business processes or functions for clients, providing solutions that are more efficient and cost-effective than if the functions were provided
in-house while also providing business insight to support executive decision-making.      We offer clients across all industries a
variety of BPO services for specific business functions and/or processes, including finance and accounting, human resources, learning and procurement, among others. We also offer specialized BPO services tailored to clients in specific industries.
For instance, we offer life insurers policy administration and management services, including high-volume transaction-processing capabilities. We help market-leading health payers improve service performance in core operational functions, coupled
with accompanying cost reductions. In addition, through our Navitaire subsidiary, we offer airlines a range of transaction-processing services, including Internet reservations, airport check-in, revenue management and accounting, crew scheduling and
management, and disruption recovery.      We also provide a broad spectrum of custom BPO outsourcing services designed to address
the unique needs of client organizations. Custom services can include an entire process or discrete activities within or across multiple business functions.       Global Delivery Model       A key Accenture differentiator is our strategic
global delivery model, which allows us to draw on the benefits of using people and other resources from around the world including scalable, standardized processes, methods and tools; specialized business process and technology skills; cost
advantages; foreign-language fluency; proximity to clients; and time-zone advantages to deliver high-quality solutions under demanding time-frames. Emphasizing quality, productivity, reduced risk, speed to market and predictability, our global
delivery model enables us to provide clients with price-competitive services and solutions that drive higher levels of performance.      A critical component of this capability is our Global Delivery Network, which comprises local Accenture professionals working at client sites around the world as well as at more than 50 delivery centers.
These are Accenture facilities where teams of our technology and business-process professionals use proven assets including processes, solution designs, infrastructure and software to create and deliver business and technology solutions
for clients. Our delivery centers improve the efficiency of our engagement teams through the reuse of these assets and by leveraging the industry, functional and technical skills and experience of delivery center professionals.   
  Accenture client teams around the world, including professionals in our Global Delivery Network, leverage the Accenture Delivery Suite,
which combines our common methods, tools, architectures and metrics in support of our global delivery efforts. The Accenture Delivery Suite provides a single, cohesive approach enabling us to start projects quickly, deliver with high quality,
and improve our ability to meet our clients  expectations. In addition, our ability to build seamless global teams leveraging the right professionals with the right skills for each task enables us to provide a complete end-to-end
capability, with consistent Accenture processes around the globe.      Our Global Delivery Network continues to be a competitive
differentiator for us. As of August 31, 2010, we had more than 116,000 people in our network globally.       Alliances    
  We have sales and delivery alliances with companies whose capabilities complement our own, either by, among other things, enhancing a
service offering, delivering a new technology or helping us extend our services to new geographies. By combining our alliance partners  products and services with our own capabilities and expertise, we create innovative, high-value business
solutions for our clients. Some         
   12   

Table of Contents  

alliances are specifically aligned with one of our service lines, thereby adding skills, technology and insights that are applicable across many of the industries we serve. Other alliances extend
and enhance our offerings specific to a single industry group. Almost all of our alliances are non-exclusive. These alliances can generate significant revenues from services to implement our alliance partners  products. We also receive some
direct payments, which are not material to our business, from our alliance partners as compensation for marketing, technical and other assistance.       Research and Innovation       We are committed to developing leading-edge ideas,
as we believe that both research and innovation have been major factors in our success and will help us continue to grow in the future. We use our investment in research and development on which we spent $384 million,
$435 million and $390 million in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively to help create, commercialize and disseminate innovative business strategies and technology solutions.   
  Our research and innovation program is designed to generate early insights into how knowledge can be harnessed to create innovative
business solutions for our clients and to develop business strategies with significant value. One component of this is our research and development organization, Accenture Technology Labs, which identifies and develops new technologies that we
believe will be the drivers of our clients  growth and enable them to be first to market with unique capabilities. Some of the key areas in which our research and development efforts and investments are focused include mobility, cloud
computing, business analytics, digital marketing, information management and smart grid.     We also promote the creation of
knowledge capital and thought leadership through the Accenture Institute for High Performance. In addition, we spend a significant portion of our research and development resources directly through our operating groups and our consulting,
technology and outsourcing capabilities to develop market-ready solutions for our clients.       Employees    
  Our most important asset is our people. The diverse and global makeup of our workforce enables us to serve our diverse and global client
base. We are deeply committed to the continued development of our employees, who receive significant and focused technical, functional, industry, managerial and leadership skill development and training appropriate for their roles and levels within
our company throughout their careers with us. We seek to reinforce our employees  commitments to our clients, culture and values through a comprehensive performance management system and a career philosophy that rewards both individual
performance and teamwork. We strive to maintain a work environment that reinforces our owner-operator culture and the collaboration, motivation, alignment of interests and sense of ownership and reward that this culture has fostered.   
  As of August 31, 2010, we had approximately 204,000 employees worldwide.       Competition       We operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing global
marketplace and compete with a variety of organizations that offer services competitive with those we offer. We compete with a variety of companies, including:       

Off-shore service providers in lower-cost locations, particularly in India or China, that offer services similar to those we offer, often at highly
competitive prices and on more aggressive terms;          

Large multinational providers, including the service arms of large global technology providers (hardware and software), that offer some or all of the
services that we do;            
   13   

Table of Contents  

Niche solution or service providers or local competitors that compete with us in a specific geographic market, industry segment or service area,
including companies that provide new or alternative products, services or delivery models; and          

Accounting firms that are expanding or re-emphasizing their provision of some consulting services, including through acquisitions.
        In addition, a client may choose to use its own resources rather than engage an outside firm for the types
of services we provide.      Our revenues are derived primarily from Fortune Global 500 and Fortune 1000 companies, medium-sized
companies, governments, government agencies and other enterprises. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the industries in which we compete include:       

skills and capabilities of people;          

innovative service and product offerings;          

ability to add business value and improve performance;      

reputation and client references;          

price;          

scope of services;          

service delivery approach;          

technical and industry expertise;          

quality of services and solutions;          

ability to deliver results reliably and on a timely basis;      

availability of appropriate resources; and          

global reach and scale.         Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive basis.       Intellectual Property
      Accenture provides value to its clients based in part on a differentiated range of proprietary inventions, methodologies,
software, reusable knowledge capital, and other intellectual property. Accenture recognizes the increasing value of intellectual property in the marketplace and vigorously creates, harvests, and protects this intellectual property. We leverage
patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws as well as contractual arrangements to protect our intellectual property. We have also established policies to respect the intellectual property rights of third parties, such as Accenture s
clients, partners, and others.      As of August 31, 2010, Accenture had more than 2,400 patent applications pending in the
United States and other jurisdictions and had been issued over 470 U.S. patents and over 380 non-U.S. patents. Some examples of technology areas covered by Accenture s patent and patent application portfolio are: business analytics, finance
industry solutions, government solutions, insurance industry solutions, interactive display and user experience technology, knowledge management and knowledge transfer tools, location-based services and information filtering, price and auction
prediction methodologies, smart grid electric delivery technologies, and web site analytics.         
   14   

Table of Contents  

    Organizational Structure       On September 1, 2009, Accenture Ltd completed a transaction in which Accenture plc, organized in Ireland, became the parent holding company of Accenture. This transaction is described below under
 History.       Accenture plc is an Irish public limited company with no material assets other than Class I common
shares in its subsidiary, Accenture SCA, a Luxembourg partnership limited by shares ( Accenture SCA ). Accenture plc s only business is to hold these shares. Accenture plc owns a majority voting interest in Accenture SCA. As the
general partner of Accenture SCA and as a result of Accenture plc s majority voting interest in Accenture SCA, Accenture plc controls Accenture SCA s management and operations and consolidates Accenture SCA s results in its
Consolidated Financial Statements. We operate our business through subsidiaries of Accenture SCA. Accenture SCA generally reimburses Accenture plc for its expenses but does not pay Accenture plc any fees. Accenture plc was elected the general
partner of Accenture SCA in place of Accenture Ltd at the November 16, 2009 shareholder meeting of Accenture SCA.        History
       Prior to our transition to a corporate structure in fiscal 2001, we operated as a series of related partnerships and
corporations under the control of our partners. In connection with our transition to a corporate structure, our partners generally exchanged all of their interests in these partnerships and corporations for Accenture Ltd Class A common shares
or, in the case of partners in certain countries, Accenture SCA Class I common shares or exchangeable shares issued by Accenture Canada Holdings Inc., an indirect subsidiary of Accenture SCA. Generally, partners who received Accenture SCA
Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares also received a corresponding number of Accenture Ltd Class X common shares, which entitled their holders to vote at Accenture Ltd shareholder meetings but did not
carry any economic rights. The combination of the Accenture Ltd Class X common shares and the Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares gave these partners substantially similar economic and
governance rights as holders of Accenture Ltd Class A common shares.      In fiscal 2005, we replaced the internal use of the
 partner  title with the more comprehensive  senior executive  title and applied the  senior executive  title to our highest-level employees, including those previously referred to as partners. However, for proper
context, we continue to use the term  partner  in certain situations and particularly when discussing our reorganization and the period prior to our incorporation.      On June 10, 2009, Accenture plc was incorporated in Ireland, as a public limited company, in order to effect moving the place of incorporation of our parent holding company from Bermuda to Ireland
(the  Transaction ). On August 5, 2009, the shareholders of Accenture Ltd, our predecessor holding company, voted in favor of the Transaction. The Transaction was subsequently completed on September 1, 2009, following approval
from the Supreme Court of Bermuda, at which time Accenture Ltd became a wholly owned subsidiary of Accenture plc and Accenture plc became our parent holding company. In the Transaction, all of the outstanding Class A and Class X common shares
of Accenture Ltd were cancelled and Accenture plc issued Class A and Class X ordinary shares on a one-for-one basis to the holders of the cancelled Accenture Ltd Class A and Class X common shares, as applicable (and cash for any fractional
shares). Accenture Ltd was dissolved on December 29, 2009.      Class A ordinary shares of the Irish company, Accenture
plc, began trading on the New York Stock Exchange on September 1, 2009 under the symbol  ACN,  the same symbol under which Class A common shares of Accenture Ltd, its predecessor, were previously listed. Prior to
September 1, 2009, the effective date of the Transaction, Accenture plc was a wholly owned subsidiary of Accenture Ltd and had no substantive operating activity.   
     
   15   

Table of Contents  

       The Consolidated
Financial Statements included in this report with respect to periods prior to September 1, 2009 reflect the consolidated operations of Accenture Ltd (the predecessor registrant of Accenture plc) and its subsidiaries. The Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this report reflect the ownership interests in Accenture SCA and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. held by certain of our current and former senior executives as noncontrolling interests. The noncontrolling ownership interests
percentage was 11% as of August 31, 2010.        Accenture plc Class A and Class X Ordinary Shares     
  Each Class A ordinary share and each Class X ordinary share of Accenture plc entitles its holder to one vote on all matters
submitted to a vote of shareholders of Accenture plc. A Class X ordinary share does not, however, entitle its holder to receive dividends or to receive payments upon a liquidation of Accenture plc. As described above under
  History,  Class X ordinary shares generally provide the holders of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares with a vote at Accenture plc shareholder meetings that is equivalent to
the voting rights held by Accenture plc Class A common shareholders, while their economic rights consist of interests in Accenture SCA Class I common shares or in Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares.   
  Under its memorandum and articles of association, Accenture plc may redeem, at its option, any Class X ordinary share for a
redemption price equal to the nominal value of the Class X ordinary share, or $0.0000225 per share. Accenture plc, as successor to Accenture Ltd, has separately agreed with the original holders of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and
Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares not to redeem any Class X ordinary share of such holder if the redemption would reduce the number of Class X ordinary shares held by that holder to a number that is less than the
number of Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares owned by that holder. Accenture plc will redeem Class X ordinary shares upon the redemption or exchange of Accenture SCA Class I
common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares so that the aggregate number of Class X ordinary shares outstanding at any time does not exceed the aggregate number of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture
Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares outstanding. Class X ordinary shares are not transferable without the consent of Accenture plc.      A transfer of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares effected by transfer of a book-entry interest in The Depository Trust Company will not be subject to Irish stamp duty. Other transfers of Accenture
plc Class A ordinary shares may be subject to Irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the price paid or the market value of the Class A ordinary shares acquired, if higher) payable by the buyer.   
    Accenture SCA Class I Common Shares        Only Accenture and our current and former senior executives and their permitted transferees hold Accenture SCA Class I common shares. Each Class I common share entitles its holder to one vote on
all matters submitted to the shareholders of Accenture SCA and entitles its holder to dividends and liquidation payments. As of October 12, 2010, Accenture holds a voting interest of approximately 89% of the aggregate outstanding Accenture SCA
Class I common shares entitled to vote, with the remaining 11% of the voting interest held by our current and former senior executives.      Accenture SCA is obligated, at the option of the holder, to redeem any outstanding Accenture SCA Class I common share at a redemption price per share generally equal to its current market value as
determined in accordance with Accenture SCA s articles of association. Under Accenture SCA s articles of association, the market value of a Class I common share that is not subject to transfer restrictions will be deemed to be equal
to (i) the average of the high and low sales prices of an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share as reported on the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other designated market on   
         16   

Table of Contents  

which the Class A ordinary shares trade), net of customary brokerage and similar transaction costs, or (ii) if Accenture plc sells its Class A ordinary shares on the date that the
redemption price is determined (other than in a transaction with any employee or an affiliate or pursuant to a preexisting obligation), the weighted average sales price of an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share on the New York Stock Exchange
(or on such other market on which the Class A ordinary shares primarily trade), net of customary brokerage and similar transaction costs. Accenture SCA may, at its option, pay this redemption price with cash or by delivering Accenture plc
Class A ordinary shares on a one-for-one basis. This one-for-one redemption price and exchange ratio will be adjusted if Accenture plc holds more than a  de minimis  amount of assets (other than its interest in Accenture SCA and assets it
holds only transiently prior to contributing them to Accenture SCA) or incurs more than a  de minimis  amount of liabilities (other than liabilities for which Accenture SCA has a corresponding liability to Accenture plc). We have been advised
by our legal advisors in Luxembourg that there is no relevant legal precedent in Luxembourg quantifying or defining the term   de minimis.   In the event that a question arises in this regard, we expect that management will interpret
  de minimis   in light of the facts and circumstances existing at the time in question. At this time, Accenture plc does not intend to hold any material assets other than its interest in Accenture SCA or to incur any material
liabilities such that this one-for-one redemption price and exchange ratio would require adjustment and will disclose any change in its intentions that could affect this ratio. In order to maintain Accenture plc s economic interest in Accenture
SCA, Accenture plc generally will acquire additional Accenture SCA common shares each time additional Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares are issued.      At the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of Accenture SCA to be held on November 15, 2010, the shareholders of Accenture SCA will be asked to vote on an amendment to the definition of
 Valuation Ratio  contained in Article 24 of Accenture SCA s articles of association. This amendment will fix the ratio used for determination of the redemption price or number of shares of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares
to be issued upon a redemption of Class I common shares from the Limited Shareholders (as defined in the articles of association). The definition of  Valuation Ratio  originally contained in Article 24 had the effect of limiting the
flexibility of Accenture plc (and its predecessor), the general partner of Accenture SCA, because it provided that if a material amount of separate assets or liabilities were acquired, including from Accenture SCA, or liabilities were incurred by
Accenture plc (or its predecessor), then the Valuation Ratio was subject to adjustment  in order to reflect the relative fair market values of  an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share and a Class I common share of SCA. This adjustment
would not be made pursuant to a pre-determined formula, but rather would occur using a  process for equitable adjustment  to be agreed upon by the general partner of Accenture SCA as well as the shareholders or a third party arbitrator if
they could not agree. The nature and methodology of such adjustments were not clearly delineated, and since such adjustments could have potentially affected the value that the Limited Shareholders would receive when they sought to redeem their SCA
shares, the general partner did not acquire or incur any separate material assets or liabilities.      The effect of the proposed
amendment is to reduce such uncertainty by ensuring that the Valuation Ratio will remain fixed (subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments) and therefore facilitate Accenture plc s ability to acquire assets, including from third parties or
Accenture SCA, and incur liabilities without the need to consider adjusting the ratio used for determining the number of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares delivered in redemption of, or used to calculate the redemption price for, Class I
common shares. After giving effect to the amendment, the ratio shall (except in connection with certain transactions affecting the capital stock of Accenture plc) be one-to-one, such that one share of Accenture plc shall be delivered in redemption
or used to calculate the redemption price for each Class I common share of Accenture SCA. Accenture plc and Accenture SCA believe that eliminating this provision at this time will provide Accenture plc with greater flexibility to create a more
efficient corporate structure, including by acquiring assets from Accenture SCA, and otherwise engage in transactions that will   
         17   

Table of Contents  

promote shareholder value. If Accenture plc acquires assets from Accenture SCA, Accenture SCA will need to determine the relative values of the acquired assets and the assets remaining at
Accenture SCA. This will expose the Limited Shareholders to the risk that if these determinations do not accurately reflect the current or future values of the assets, the value of the Limited Shareholders interest in Accenture SCA could be
adversely affected. However, this risk will be mitigated because the Limited Shareholders will continue to enjoy the benefit of their redemption rights based on a fixed one-to-one ratio for Accenture plc shares, which will allow them to share in the
value of the assets that had been acquired from Accenture SCA.      Except in the case of a redemption of Class I common
shares or a transfer of Class I common shares to Accenture plc or one of its subsidiaries, Accenture SCA s articles of association provide that Accenture SCA Class I common shares may be transferred only with the consent of the
general partner of Accenture SCA. In addition, all holders of Class I common shares (except Accenture) are precluded from having their shares redeemed by Accenture SCA or transferred to Accenture SCA, Accenture plc or a subsidiary of Accenture
plc at any time or during any period when Accenture SCA determines, based on the advice of counsel, that there is material non-public information that may affect the average price per share of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, if the
redemption would be prohibited by applicable law, during an underwritten offering due to an underwriters lock-up or during the period from the announcement of a tender offer by Accenture SCA or its affiliates for Accenture SCA Class I common
shares until the expiration of ten business days after the termination of the tender offer (other than to tender the holder s Accenture SCA Class I common shares in the tender offer).   
    Accenture SCA Class II and Class III Common Shares        On November 16, 2009, the shareholders of Accenture SCA approved amendments to Accenture SCA s articles of association pursuant to which all of the Class II common shares and Class III common
shares of Accenture SCA, which were all held by Accenture, were reclassified into Class I common shares with the same rights as the Class I common shares that existed prior to November 16, 2009, as described above under   Accenture
SCA Class I Common Shares,  including being entitled to the payment of cash dividends. This amendment had no effect on the relative economic rights of Accenture plc or the other holders of Accenture SCA Class I common shares.   
    Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. Exchangeable Shares        Holders of Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares may exchange their shares for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares at any time on a one-for-one basis. Accenture may, at its option,
satisfy this exchange with cash at a price per share generally equal to the market price of an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share at the time of the exchange. Each exchangeable share of Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. entitles its holder to
receive distributions equal to any distributions to which an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share entitles its holder. The exchange of all of the outstanding Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares for Accenture plc Class A
ordinary shares would not have a material impact on the equity ownership position of Accenture or the other shareholders of Accenture SCA.       

ITEM 1A.   
   RISK FACTORS         In addition
to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations (including revenues and profitability) or stock
price. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us.      Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to
us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price.   
         18   

Table of Contents  

         Our results of operations could
be adversely affected by negative or uncertain economic conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients  businesses and levels of business activity.        Global economic conditions affect our clients  businesses and the markets they serve, and negative or uncertain economic conditions may have an adverse effect on our revenue growth and profitability.
For example, the global economic downturn that began to affect our business in fiscal 2009 reduced demand for our services and caused clients to request additional price concessions. Changes in global economic conditions could cause our clients or
potential clients to reduce or defer their spending on new technologies or initiatives in order to focus on other priorities, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. Growth in the primary markets we serve
could be at a slow rate, or could stagnate, for an extended period of time. Differing patterns of economic growth and contraction in the geographical regions in which we operate and the industries we serve may affect demand for our services.
On-going economic uncertainties also affect our business in a number of other ways, making it more difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. Specifically, if we are unable to forecast client demand for our services
accurately, we might be unable to effectively plan for or respond to economic changes. This could result, for example, in not having the appropriate personnel where they are needed, and could have a significant negative impact on our results of
operations. Any of these economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.        Our results of
operations and ability to grow could be materially negatively affected if we cannot adapt and expand our services and solutions in response to changes in technology and client demand.     
  Our success depends on our ability to continue to develop and implement services and solutions that anticipate and respond to rapid and
continuing changes in technology and industry developments to serve the evolving needs of our clients. Our growth strategy focuses on driving innovation for our core business as well as through new business initiatives beyond the core business. If
we are not able to successfully drive innovation in our services and solutions, our results of operations and ability to grow could be negatively affected. If, in response to client demand, we move work more quickly into our Global Delivery Network
than planned, our revenues may be less than we anticipated.      In addition, we operate in a quickly evolving environment. The
services or technologies offered by current or future competitors may make our offerings less competitive or obsolete. Technological developments may arise that materially affect the commercial viability of our offerings. If we are unable to
anticipate and respond effectively to these technological developments, our ability to obtain or successfully deliver client work may be negatively affected.        The consulting and outsourcing markets are highly competitive, and we might not be able to compete effectively.        The markets in which we offer our services are highly competitive. We compete with a variety of companies, including:       

Off-shore service providers in lower-cost locations, particularly in India or China, that offer services similar to those we offer, often at highly
competitive prices and on more aggressive contractual terms;          

Large multinational providers, including the services arms of large global technology providers (hardware and software), that offer some or all of the
services that we do;      
         19   

Table of Contents  

Niche solution or service providers or local competitors that compete with us in a specific geographic market, industry segment or service area,
including companies that provide new or alternative products, services or delivery models; and          

Accounting firms that are expanding or re-emphasizing their provision of some consulting services, including through acquisitions.
        In addition, a client may choose to use its own resources rather than engage an outside firm for the types
of services we provide. Some of our competitors are companies that may have greater financial, marketing or other resources than we do and, therefore, may be better able to compete for new work and skilled professionals.   
  The competitive environment in our industry affects our ability to obtain favorable pricing in a number of ways, all of which could have a
material negative impact on our results of operations. The less we are able to differentiate our services and solutions, the more risk we have that they will be seen as commodities, with price being the driving factor in selecting a service
provider. Increased competition from companies located in lower-cost locations has put downward pressure on the prices we can charge for our services, particularly in the outsourcing and systems integration markets, and is likely to continue to do
so. Some of our competitors are willing, at times, to price contracts with low or negative margins in an effort to increase market share. Further, if our competitors develop and implement methodologies that yield greater efficiency and productivity,
they may be able to offer services similar to ours at lower prices.      Even if we have potential offerings that address
marketplace or client needs, our competitors may be more successful at selling similar services they offer, including to companies that are Accenture clients. Some of our competitors are more established in emerging markets, and this may make our
geographic expansion strategy in these markets more challenging. Additionally, our competitors may also offer more aggressive contractual terms, which may affect our ability to win work.   
  In addition, we may face greater competition from companies that have increased in size or scope as a result of strategic mergers or
acquisitions. These transactions may include consolidation activity among hardware manufacturers, software developers and vendors, and service providers. Within the last two years, we have seen significant consolidation that has resulted in the
convergence of products and services that were once offered separately by independent vendors. Our access to such products and services may be reduced as a result of this consolidation. Additionally, vertically integrated companies are able to offer
as a single provider more integrated services, software and hardware to clients than we can. If buyers of services favor using a single provider for an integrated technology stack, such buyers may direct more business to our competitors, and this
could materially adversely affect our competitive position and our results of operations.        Our work with government clients exposes us
to additional risks inherent in the government contracting environment.        Our clients include national, provincial,
state and local governmental entities. Our government work carries various risks inherent in the government contracting process. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following:   

Government entities typically fund projects through appropriated monies. While these projects are often planned and executed as multi-year projects,
the government entities usually reserve the right to change the scope of or terminate these projects for lack of approved funding and at their convenience. Changes in government or political developments, including budget deficits or shortfalls,
could result in our projects being reduced in price or scope or terminated altogether, which also could limit our recovery of incurred costs, reimbursable expenses and profits on work completed prior to the termination. Furthermore, if insufficient
funding is appropriated to the government entity to cover termination costs, we may not be able to fully recover our investments.      
         20   

Table of Contents  

Government entities, particularly in the United States, often reserve the right to audit our contract costs and conduct inquiries and investigations of
our business practices with respect to government contracts. If these audits conclude that the costs are not reimbursable, then we will not be allowed to bill for them, or the cost must be refunded to the government if it has already been paid to
us. Findings from an audit also could result in our being required to prospectively adjust previously agreed rates for our work, may affect our future profitability or may prevent us, by operation of law or in practice, from receiving new government
contracts for some period of time. In the U.S., pending final audit determinations the government may require us not to bill a percentage of our costs, as the U.S. government is currently doing with respect to certain of our contracts in an amount
that is not material to our results of operations. U.S. government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency (the  DCAA ), routinely audit our contract costs, including allocated indirect costs and compliance with the Cost
Accounting Standards ( CAS ), and conduct system reviews, investigations and other inquiries of our performance and business practices with respect to our government contracts. Currently, we are being audited by DCAA in relation to our
indirect cost submissions with respect to several fiscal years, as well as in relation to CAS and our business systems. If the government auditors find, and the Defense Contract Management Agency (which has administrative authority over our U.S.
government contracts) concludes, that certain costs are not reimbursable, have not been properly determined or are based on outdated estimates of our work, then we will not be allowed to bill for such costs or may have to refund money that has
already been paid to us.          

If a government client discovers improper or illegal activities in the course of audits or investigations, we may become subject to various civil and
criminal penalties, including those under the civil U.S. False Claims Act, and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing
business with other agencies of that government. The inherent limitations of internal controls may not prevent or detect all improper or illegal activities, regardless of their adequacy. An allegation of improper or illegal activity, even if not
proven, could result in negative publicity, which could damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to win new contracts or receive contract renewals.      

U.S. government contracting regulations impose strict compliance and disclosure obligations. Disclosure is required if certain company personnel have
knowledge of  credible evidence  of a violation of federal criminal laws involving fraud, conflict of interest, bribery or improper gratuity, a violation of the civil False Claims Act or receipt of a significant overpayment from the
government. Failure to make required disclosures could be a basis for suspension and/or debarment from federal government contracting in addition to breach of the specific contract and could also impact contracting beyond the U.S. federal level.
Reported matters also could lead to audits or investigations and other civil, criminal or administrative sanctions.          

Government contracts, and the proceedings surrounding them, are often subject to more extensive scrutiny and publicity than contracts with commercial
clients. Negative publicity related to our government contracts, regardless of its accuracy, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts.      

Political and economic factors such as pending elections, the outcome of recent elections, changes in leadership among key executive or legislative
decision makers, revisions to governmental tax or other policies and reduced tax revenues can affect the number and terms of new government contracts signed or the speed at which new contracts are signed, decrease future levels of spending and
authorizations for programs that we bid, shift spending priorities to programs in areas for which we do not provide services and/or lead to changes in enforcement or how compliance with relevant rules or laws is assessed.
     
         21   

Table of Contents  

Terms and conditions of government contracts tend to be more onerous and are often more difficult to negotiate than those for commercial contracts.
        The occurrences or conditions described above could affect not only our business with the particular
government entities involved, but also our business with other entities of the same or other governmental bodies or with certain commercial clients. Additionally, because of their visibility and political nature, government projects may present a
heightened risk to our reputation. If any of the risks discussed above were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business or our results of operations.        Our business could be adversely affected if our clients are not satisfied with our services.        Our business model depends in large part on our ability to attract additional work from our base of existing clients. Our business model also depends on relationships our senior executives develop with
our clients so that we can understand our clients  needs and deliver solutions and services that are tailored to those needs. If a client is not satisfied with the quality of work performed by us, a subcontractor or other third parties who
provide services or products for a specific project, or with the type of services or solutions delivered, then we could incur additional costs to address the situation, the profitability of that work might be impaired, and the client s
dissatisfaction with our services could damage our ability to obtain additional work from that client. In particular, clients that are not satisfied might seek to terminate existing contracts prior to their scheduled expiration date and could direct
future business to our competitors. In addition, negative publicity related to our client services or relationships, regardless of its accuracy, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts with current and
prospective clients.        Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if our clients terminate their contracts with us.
       Many of our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive, project-by-project basis. Although we do not centrally
track the termination provisions of our consulting contracts, we estimate that the majority of our contracts can be terminated by our clients on short notice, and some without notice. Many of our consulting contracts are less than 12 months in
duration, and these shorter-duration contracts typically permit a client to terminate the agreement with as little as 30 days notice and without significant cost to the client. Longer-term, larger and more complex contracts, such as the
majority of our outsourcing contracts, generally require a longer notice period for termination and often include an early termination charge to be paid to us, but this charge might not be sufficient to cover our costs or make up for anticipated
profits lost upon termination of the contract. Additionally, large client projects often involve multiple contracts or stages, and a client could choose not to retain us for additional stages of a project, try to renegotiate the terms of its
contract or cancel or delay additional planned work. Terminations, cancellations or delays could result from factors that are beyond our control and unrelated to our work product or the progress of the project, including the business or financial
conditions of the client, changes in ownership or management at our clients, changes in client strategies or the economy or markets generally. For example in fiscal 2009, we experienced a higher volume of contract terminations and restructurings as
a result of challenging economic conditions, which negatively affected our results of operations. When contracts are terminated, we lose the anticipated revenues and might not be able to replace the lost revenue, or it may take significant time to
replace, with other work or eliminate associated costs in a timely manner. Consequently, our results of operations in subsequent periods could be materially lower than expected.   
         22   

Table of Contents  

         Outsourcing services are a
significant part of our business and subject us to additional operational and financial risk.        We earned approximately
43% of our net revenues in fiscal 2010 from our outsourcing services. This portion of our business presents potential operational and financial risks that are different from those of our consulting and systems integration services. Our outsourcing
services involve taking over the operation of certain portions of our clients  businesses. In some cases, we may deliver those services using client personnel and third-party contracts that are transferred to us. From time to time, however, we
assume responsibility for delivering our services using client personnel or client subcontractors who are not transferred to us, and we therefore have less ability to fully control their work and efforts. In addition, we could incur liability for
failure to comply with laws or regulations related to the portions of our clients  businesses that are transferred to us. This type of work also presents financial risks to us. Outsourcing contracts typically have longer terms than consulting
contracts and generally have lower gross margins than consulting contracts, particularly during the first year of the contract. This could exert downward pressure on our overall gross margins, particularly during the early stages of new outsourcing
contracts, which might not be offset by improved performance on contracts in our portfolio that we have been operating for a longer time. Furthermore, we face considerable competition for outsourcing work and our clients are increasingly using
intensive contracting processes and aggressive contracting techniques and terms, sometimes assisted by third-party advisors.   
  In addition, we may face exposure in our outsourcing business if we contribute to internal controls issues of a client. If a process we
manage for a client were to result in internal controls failures at the client or impair our client s ability to comply with its own internal control requirements, there is a risk that we could face legal liability. Many of our clients request
that we obtain an audit under Statement on Auditing Standards No. 70 of the control activities we perform for them when we host or process data belonging to them. We cannot guarantee that we will receive an unqualified opinion in any such
audit, and our ability to acquire new clients and retain existing clients may be adversely affected and our reputation could be harmed if we receive a qualified opinion, or if we cannot obtain an unqualified opinion in a timely manner.   
    Our results of operations could materially suffer if we are not able to obtain favorable pricing.     
  If we are not able to obtain favorable pricing for our services, our revenues and profitability could materially suffer. The rates we are
able to charge for our services are affected by a number of factors, including:       

general economic and political conditions;          

our ability to differentiate, and/or clearly convey the value of, our services;      

the pricing practices of our competitors, including the aggressive use by our competitors of off-shore resources to provide lower-cost service delivery
capabilities, or the introduction of new services or products by our competitors;          

our clients  desire to reduce their costs;          

our ability to charge higher prices where market demand or the value of our services justifies it;      

our ability to accurately estimate, attain and sustain contract revenues, margins and cash flows over long contract periods; and

procurement practices of clients and their use of third-party advisors.      
         23   

Table of Contents  

         If we are unable to keep our
supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand around the world, our business, the utilization rate of our professionals and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected.     
  Our success is dependent, in large part, on our ability to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand around
the world. Experienced personnel in our industry are in high demand, and competition for their talents is intense. We must hire, retain and motivate appropriate numbers of talented people with diverse skills in order to serve clients and grow and
manage our business. We are particularly dependent on retaining our senior executives and other experienced managers with the skill sets required by our business, and if we are unable to do so, our ability to develop new business and effectively
lead our current projects could be jeopardized. Similarly, our profitability depends on our ability to effectively utilize personnel with the right mix of skills and experience to support our projects, including our ability to transition employees
from completed projects to new assignments. If the utilization rate of our professionals is too high, it could have an adverse effect on employee engagement and attrition. If our utilization rate is too low, our profitability could suffer. The
processes and costs associated with recruiting, training and retaining employees, and our need to devote time to business development and other non-chargeable activities, place significant demands on our resources. The mobility of our employees also
contributes to the effective operation of our global business model, and increased regulation of immigration or work visas could make this more difficult.      There is a risk that at certain points in time and in certain geographical regions, we will find it difficult to hire and retain a sufficient number of employees with the skills or backgrounds to meet
current or future demand. In these cases, we might need to redeploy existing personnel or increase our reliance on subcontractors to fill certain of our labor needs. Our geographic expansion strategy in our strategic growth markets and other
emerging markets depends in part on our ability to attract and retain both business leaders and people with the appropriate delivery skills. Additionally, if demand were to escalate at a high rate, we may need to adjust our compensation practices,
which could put upward pressure on our costs and adversely affect our profitability if we are unable to recover these increased costs. At certain times, however, we may also have more personnel than we need in certain skill sets or geographies. In
these situations, we must evaluate voluntary attrition and use increased involuntary terminations and reduced levels of new hiring as means to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand in those geographies.   
  Our ability to grow our revenues and increase profitability could be adversely affected if we cannot effectively manage employee hiring,
assimilation and retention to meet client demand, maintain a favorable utilization rate and achieve an efficient workforce structure.   
    Our business could be materially adversely affected if we incur legal liability in connection with providing our services and solutions.
       We could be subject to significant legal liability and litigation expense if we fail to meet our contractual
obligations, fail to disclose our financial or other arrangements with our alliance partners, or otherwise breach obligations, to third parties, including clients, alliance partners, and other parties with whom we conduct business, or if our
subcontractors breach or dispute the terms of our agreements with them and impede our ability to meet our obligations to our clients. We may enter into agreements with non-standard terms because we perceive an important economic opportunity or
because our personnel did not adequately follow our contracting guidelines. In addition, the contracting practices of our competitors, along with the demands of increasingly sophisticated clients, may cause contract terms and conditions that are
unfavorable to us to become new standards in the marketplace. We may find ourselves committed to providing services or solutions that we are unable to deliver or whose delivery will reduce our profitability or cause us financial loss. If we cannot
or do not perform our obligations, we could face significant legal liability, and our contracts might not always protect us adequately through limitations on   
         24   

Table of Contents  

the scope of our potential liability, because a third party may allege fraud or other wrongdoing to prevent us from relying upon those contractual protections. A failure of a client s system
based on our services or solutions could subject us to a claim for significant damages that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. If we cannot or do not meet our contractual obligations to provide such solutions and services,
and if our exposure is not adequately limited through the terms of our agreements, or if liability limitations are not enforced, we might face significant legal liability and litigation expense and our results of operations could be materially
adversely affected. In addition to expense, litigation can be lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations, and litigation results can be unpredictable.        If our pricing estimates do not accurately anticipate the cost and complexity of performing our work, then our contracts could be unprofitable.     
  Our pricing for all of our services and solutions is highly dependent on our internal forecasts and predictions about our projects and the
marketplace, which might be based on limited data and could turn out to be inaccurate. If we do not accurately estimate the costs and timing for completing projects to a client s satisfaction, or we experience unanticipated delivery
difficulties, our contracts could prove unprofitable or yield lower profit margins than anticipated. Our pricing, cost and profit margin estimates on outsourcing work, and sometimes other types of work, frequently include anticipated long-term cost
savings for the client from transformational and other initiatives that we expect to achieve and sustain over the life of the contract. There is a risk that we will underprice our contracts, fail to accurately estimate the costs of performing the
work or fail to accurately assess the risks associated with potential contracts. This risk could result in existing contracts and contracts entered into in the future being less profitable than expected or unprofitable, which could have an adverse
effect on our profitability.        Many of our contracts include performance payments that link some of our fees to the attainment of
performance or business targets. This could increase the variability of our revenues and margins.        Many of our
contracts include performance clauses that require us to achieve agreed-upon performance standards or milestones. If we fail to satisfy these measures, it could reduce our fees under the contracts, increase the cost to us of meeting performance
standards or milestones, delay expected payments or subject us to potential damage claims under the contract terms. Additionally, we have a number of contracts in which a portion of our fees or incentives depends on performance measures such as
cost-savings, revenue enhancement, benefits produced, business goals attained and adherence to schedule. These goals can be complex and may depend on our clients  actual levels of business activity. These provisions could increase the
variability in revenues and margins earned on those contracts.        Our ability to attract and retain business may depend on our reputation
in the marketplace.        Our services are marketed to clients and prospective clients based on a number of factors. Our
corporate reputation is a significant factor in our clients  evaluation of whether to engage our services. We believe the Accenture brand name and our reputation are important corporate assets that help distinguish our services from those of
our competitors and also contribute to our efforts to recruit and retain talented employees. However, our corporate reputation is potentially susceptible to material damage by events such as disputes with clients, information technology security
breaches or service outages or other delivery failures. Similarly, our reputation could be damaged by actions or statements of current or former clients, competitors, vendors, adversaries in legal proceedings, government regulators, as well as
members of the investment community and the media. There is a risk that negative information about Accenture, even if based on rumor or misunderstanding, could adversely affect our business. Damage to our reputation could be difficult and
time-consuming to repair, could make potential or existing clients reluctant to select us for new engagements, resulting in a loss of business, and could adversely affect our recruitment and retention
  
         25   

Table of Contents  

efforts. Damage to our reputation could also reduce the value and effectiveness of the Accenture brand name and could reduce investor confidence in us, materially adversely affecting our share
price.        Our alliance relationships may not be successful or may change, which could adversely affect our results of operations.
       We have alliances with companies whose capabilities complement our own. Many of our services and solutions are based
on technology or software provided by our alliance partners. See  Business Alliances.  The priorities and objectives of our alliance partners may differ from ours. As most of our alliance relationships are non-exclusive, our alliance
partners are not prohibited from competing with us or forming closer or preferred arrangements with our competitors. One or more of our key alliance partners may be acquired by a competitor. If our alliances are less successful, we may be less
competitive, our ability to offer attractive solutions to our clients may be negatively affected, and our results of operations could be adversely affected.        Our Global Delivery Network is increasingly concentrated in India and the Philippines, which may expose us to operational risks.     
  Our business model is dependent on our Global Delivery Network, in which Accenture personnel are based at more than 50 delivery centers
around the world. Under this strategy, we have continued to shift personnel and processes to locations where we can perform both outsourcing and consulting work at lower cost than in more highly-developed markets such as Western Europe or North
America. While these delivery centers are located throughout the world, we have based large portions of our delivery network in India and the Philippines. Concentrating our Global Delivery Network in these locations presents a number of operational
risks, many of which are beyond our control. India and the Philippines have experienced severe weather conditions, including cyclones, typhoons and other storms, which may occur again and could impair the ability of our people to safely travel to
our facilities. Additionally, both countries have experienced political instability and worker strikes. Our business continuity and disaster recovery plans may not be effective, particularly if catastrophic events occur. If any of these
circumstances occurs, we have a greater risk that the interruptions in communications with our clients and other Accenture locations and personnel, and any down-time in important processes we operate for clients, could result in a material adverse
effect on our results of operations and our reputation in the marketplace.        As a result of our geographically diverse operations and our
growth strategy to continue geographic expansion, we are more susceptible to certain risks.        We have offices and
operations in 53 countries around the world and provide services to clients in more than 120 countries. In fiscal 2010, approximately 44% of our net revenues were attributable to the Americas region, 44% were attributable to the Europe, Middle East
and Africa region ( EMEA ), and 12% were attributable to the Asia Pacific region. In addition, our Global Delivery Network comprises local Accenture professionals working at client sites around the world as well as more than 50 delivery
centers. One aspect of our growth strategy is to continue our geographic expansion in emerging markets, which generally involve greater financial and operational risks, such as those described below, than our more mature markets. If we are unable to
manage the risks of our global operations and geographic expansion strategy, including fluctuations in foreign exchange and inflation rates, international hostilities, natural disasters, security breaches, failure to maintain compliance with our
clients  control requirements and multiple legal and regulatory systems, our results of operations and ability to grow could be materially adversely affected. Negative or uncertain political climates in countries or geographies where we operate
could also adversely affect us.   
         26   

Table of Contents  

        Our results of
operations could be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.     Although we report our results of operations in U.S. dollars, a majority of our net revenues is denominated in
currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.       

Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, expenses and income, as well as assets
and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies will affect our net revenues, operating income and
the value of balance-sheet items originally denominated in other currencies. Declines in the value of other currencies against the U.S. dollar could cause our growth in consolidated earnings stated in U.S. dollars to be lower than our
growth in local currency when compared against other periods. Conversely, increases in the value of other currencies against the U.S. dollar could cause our growth in consolidated earnings stated in U.S. dollars to be higher than our
growth in local currency when compared against other periods.          

In some countries we could be subject to strict restrictions on the movement of cash and the exchange of foreign currencies, which could limit our
ability to use this cash across our global operations.          

As we continue to leverage our global delivery model, more of our expenses are incurred in currencies other than those in which we bill for the related
services. An increase in the value of certain currencies, such as the Indian rupee, against the U.S. dollar could increase costs for delivery of services at off-shore sites by increasing labor and other costs that are denominated in local
currency, and there can be no assurance that our contractual provisions or our currency hedging activities would offset this impact. This could result in a decrease in the profitability of our contracts that are utilizing delivery center resources.
In addition, our currency hedging activities are themselves subject to risk. These include risks related to counterparty performance under hedging contracts and risks related to currency fluctuations. We also face risks that extreme economic
conditions, political instability, or hostilities or disasters of the type described in the paragraph below could impact our underlying exposures, perhaps eliminating them. Such an event could lead to losses being recognized on the currency hedges
then in place, not offset by anticipated changes in the underlying hedge exposure.          International
hostilities, terrorist activities, natural disasters, pandemics and infrastructure disruptions could prevent us from effectively serving our clients and thus adversely affect our results of operations.     Acts of terrorist
violence, armed regional and international hostilities and international responses to these hostilities, natural disasters, global health risks or pandemics or the threat of or perceived potential for these events could have a negative impact on us.
These events could adversely affect our clients  levels of business activity and precipitate sudden significant changes in regional and global economic conditions and cycles. These events also pose significant risks to our people and to
physical facilities and operations around the world, whether the facilities are ours or those of our alliance partners or clients. By disrupting communications and travel and increasing the difficulty of obtaining and retaining highly skilled and
qualified personnel, these events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver services to our clients. Extended disruptions of electricity, other public utilities or network services at our facilities, as well as system failures at, or
security breaches in, our facilities or systems, could also adversely affect our ability to serve our clients. While we plan and prepare to defend against each of these occurrences, we might be unable to protect our people, facilities and systems
against all such occurrences. We generally do not have insurance for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist attacks, conflicts and wars. If these disruptions prevent us from effectively serving our clients, our results of operations could be
adversely affected.   
         27   

Table of Contents  

        Our global
operations expose us to numerous and sometimes onerous or conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violation of these regulations could harm our business.     We are subject to numerous, and sometimes conflicting,
legal regimes on matters as diverse as import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, immigration, antibribery, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, anti-competition,
data privacy and labor relations. This includes in emerging markets where legal systems may be less developed or familiar to us. Compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly, time-consuming and requires significant resources. Violations of
one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business and damage to our reputation. Violations of these regulations in
connection with the performance of our obligations to our clients also could result in liability for significant monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity and other reputational damage, restrictions on our ability to
process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations. Due to the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws might be insufficient to
protect our rights.      Legislation related to certain non-U.S. corporations has been enacted in various jurisdictions in the
United States, none of which adversely affects Accenture. However, additional legislative proposals remain under consideration which, if enacted, could limit or even prohibit our eligibility to be awarded state or federal government contracts in the
United States in the future. Changes in laws and regulations could also mandate significant and costly changes to the way we implement our services and solutions or could impose additional taxes on our services and solutions. For example, because
outsourcing and systems integration represent a significant portion of our business, changes in laws and regulations to limit using off-shore resources, which have been proposed from time to time in various jurisdictions, could adversely affect our
results of operations if we are not able to transfer the affected work to other parts of our Global Delivery Network in a timely manner and without materially impacting our results of operations.   
  In many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business community might not conform to
international business standards and could violate anticorruption laws or regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory
compliance, our employees, subcontractors and agents could take actions that violate these policies or procedures or applicable anticorruption laws or regulations. Violations of these laws or regulations could subject us to criminal or civil
enforcement actions, including fines and suspension or disqualification from U.S. federal contracting, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.        We could have liability or our reputation could be damaged if we fail to protect client and Accenture data or information systems as obligated by law or contract or if our information systems are
breached.        We are dependent on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic
information and to communicate among our locations around the world and with our clients, alliance partners, and vendors. The breadth and complexity of this infrastructure increases the potential risk of security breaches. Such breaches could lead
to shutdowns or disruptions of our systems and potential unauthorized disclosure of confidential information.      In providing
services to clients, we often manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or Accenture data, including personal data. As a result, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as the
national laws implementing the European Union Directive on Data Protection and various U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of health or other personally identifiable information. These laws and regulations are increasing in
complexity and   
         28   

Table of Contents  

number, change frequently and sometimes conflict among the various countries in which we operate. If any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches
our established controls with respect to client or Accenture data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines, and/or criminal prosecution in one
or more jurisdictions. These monetary damages might not be subject to a contractual limit of liability or an exclusion of consequential or indirect damages and could be significant. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or
Accenture data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our information systems or those we develop for
our clients, whether by our employees or third parties, including an attack by viruses, worms or other malicious software programs, could result in negative publicity, legal liability and damage to our reputation and could have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations.        We could be subject to liabilities or damage our relationships with clients if our subcontractors
or the third parties with whom we partner cannot meet their commitments on time or at all.        Large and complex
arrangements often require that we utilize subcontractors or that our services and solutions incorporate or coordinate with the software, systems or infrastructure requirements of other vendors and service providers, including companies with which
we have alliances. Our ability to serve our clients and deliver and implement our solutions in a timely manner depends on the ability of these subcontractors, vendors and service providers to deliver their products and services in a timely manner
and in accordance with project requirements, as well as on our effective oversight of their performance. Some of this work involves new technologies, which may not work as intended or may take more effort to implement than initially predicted. In
some cases, these subcontractors are small firms, and they might not have the resources or experience to successfully integrate their services with large-scale projects or enterprises. In addition, certain client work requires the use of unique and
complex structures and alliances, some of which require us to assume responsibility for the performance of third parties whom we do not control. Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to perform and subject us to additional
liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on relationships with our clients and on our results of operations.        Our
services or solutions could infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others or we might lose our ability to utilize the intellectual property of others.        We cannot be sure that our services and solutions, or the solutions of others that we offer to our clients, do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, and these third parties
could claim that we or our clients are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. These claims could harm our reputation, cost us money and prevent us from offering some services or solutions. In a number of our contracts, we agree to
indemnify our clients for expenses or liabilities resulting from claimed infringements of the intellectual property rights of third parties. In some instances, the amount of these indemnities could be greater than the revenues we receive from the
client. Any claims or litigation in this area, whether we ultimately win or lose, could be time-consuming and costly, injure our reputation or require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. If we cannot or do not license the infringed
technology at all or on reasonable terms, or we cannot substitute alternative technology from another source, our operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, in recent years individuals and firms have begun purchasing
intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from large companies. If a claim of infringement were successful against us or our clients, an injunction might be ordered
against our client or our own services or operations, causing further damages.   
         29   

Table of Contents  

       We could lose our
ability to utilize the intellectual property of others. Third-party suppliers of software, hardware or other intellectual assets could be acquired or sued, and this could disrupt use of their products or services by Accenture and our clients. If our
ability to provide services and solutions to our clients is impaired, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.   
    We have only a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which are important to our success.     
  Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary methodologies and other intellectual property. Existing laws of
some countries in which we provide services or solutions might offer only limited protection of our intellectual property rights. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure and other contractual
arrangements, and patent, copyright and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property rights. These laws are subject to change at any time and could further restrict our ability to protect our innovations. Our intellectual property rights may
not prevent competitors from independently developing products and services similar to or duplicative of ours. Further, the steps we take in this regard might not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our
intellectual property, and we might not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Enforcing our rights might also require considerable time, money and oversight.
     Depending on the circumstances, we might need to grant a specific client greater rights in intellectual property developed in
connection with a contract than we otherwise generally do. In certain situations, we might forego all rights to the use of intellectual property we create, which would limit our ability to reuse that intellectual property for other clients. Any
limitation on our ability to provide a service or solution could cause us to lose revenue-generating opportunities and require us to incur additional expenses to develop new or modified solutions for future projects.   
    Changes in our level of taxes, and audits, investigations and tax proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations
and financial condition.        We are subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. We calculate and provide for income
taxes in each tax jurisdiction in which we operate. Tax accounting often involves complex matters and judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in
various jurisdictions. Tax authorities have disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with our judgments. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax liabilities. However, our
judgments might not be sustained as a result of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid could be different from the amounts previously recorded. In addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes in the
mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws. Furthermore, changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation or
enforcement, may be unpredictable and could materially adversely affect our tax position. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   
    Our profitability could suffer if our cost-management strategies are unsuccessful.     
  Our ability to improve or maintain our profitability is dependent on our being able to successfully manage our costs. Our cost management
strategies include maintaining appropriate alignment between the demand for our services and our resource capacity, optimizing the costs of service delivery and maintaining or improving our sales and marketing and general and administrative costs as
a percentage of revenues. This includes executing an increasing amount of our client delivery using geographically distributed workforces in lower-cost locations in our Global Delivery Network. We have also taken
  
         30   

Table of Contents  

actions to reduce certain costs, and these initiatives include, without limitation, ongoing global consolidation of our office space and re-alignment of portions of our non-client-facing
workforce to lower-cost locations. There is no guarantee that these, or other, cost-management efforts will be successful, that our efficiency will be enhanced, or that we will achieve desired levels of profitability. If we are not effective in
reducing our operating costs in the face of changes in demand or pricing, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.   
    If we are unable to collect our receivables or unbilled services, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely
affected.        Our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe
us for work performed. We evaluate the financial condition of our clients and usually bill and collect on relatively short cycles. In limited circumstances, we also extend financing to our clients. We maintain allowances against receivables and
unbilled services. Actual losses on client balances could differ from those that we currently anticipate and as a result we might need to adjust our allowances. There is no guarantee that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our
clients. Macroeconomic conditions could also result in financial difficulties for our clients, and as a result could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables
balance, or default on their payment obligations to us. Recovery of client financing and timely collection of client balances also depend on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and bill and collect our contracted revenues. If we are
unable to meet our contractual requirements, we might experience delays in collection of and/or be unable to collect our client balances, and if this occurs, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, if we
experience an increase in the time to bill and collect for our services, our cash flows could be adversely affected.        We may be subject
to criticism, negative publicity and legislative or regulatory action related to our incorporation in Ireland.        Some
companies that conduct business in the United States but are domiciled in certain offshore jurisdictions have been criticized as improperly avoiding U.S. taxes or creating an unfair competitive advantage over U.S. companies. Accenture never
conducted business under a U.S. parent company, and pays U.S. taxes on all of its U.S. operations. Nonetheless, we could be subject to similar criticism in connection with our incorporation in Bermuda for eight years and current incorporation in
Ireland.      Although we expect to be able to rely on the tax treaty between the U.S. and Ireland, there can be no assurance that
legislative or diplomatic action will not be taken that would prevent us from being able to rely on such treaty. Our inability to rely on such treaty would subject us to increased taxation or significant additional expense. Congressional proposals
could change the definition of a U.S. person for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could subject us to increased taxation. In addition, we could be materially adversely affected by future changes in tax law or policy in Ireland or other
jurisdictions where we operate, including their treaties with the United States.      Various U.S. federal and state legislative
proposals have been introduced and/or enacted in recent years that deny government contracts to certain U.S. companies that reincorporate or have reincorporated outside the United States. While Accenture was not a U.S. company that reincorporated
outside the United States, these contract bans and other legislative proposals could be enacted in a way to negatively affect Accenture.   
    If we are unable to manage the organizational challenges associated with our size, we might be unable to achieve our business objectives.
       As of August 31, 2010, we had approximately 204,000 employees worldwide. Our size presents significant
management and organizational challenges. It may become increasingly difficult to maintain   
         31   

Table of Contents  

effective standards across a large enterprise and effectively institutionalize our knowledge. It takes time for our newer employees to develop the knowledge, skills and experience that our
business model requires. In addition, it may become more difficult to maintain our culture, effectively manage and monitor our personnel and operations and effectively communicate to our personnel worldwide our core values, strategies and goals,
particularly given our world-wide operations. Finally, the size and scope of our operations increase the possibility that we will have employees who engage in unlawful or fraudulent activity, or otherwise expose us to unacceptable business risks,
despite our efforts to train our people and maintain internal controls to prevent such instances. If we do not continue to develop and implement the right processes and tools to manage our enterprise and instill our culture and core values into all
our employees, our ability to compete successfully and achieve our business objectives could be impaired.        We may not be successful at
identifying, acquiring or integrating other businesses.        We expect to continue our program of pursuing tactical
acquisitions designed to enhance our capabilities, expand in emerging markets and other countries or develop new services and solutions. We may not successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, succeed in completing targeted transactions or
achieve desired results of operations. Furthermore, we face risks in successfully integrating any businesses we might acquire. We might need to dedicate additional management and other resources, and our organizational structure could make it
difficult for us to efficiently integrate acquired businesses into our ongoing operations and assimilate employees of those businesses into our culture and operations. Accordingly, we might fail to realize the expected benefits or strategic
objectives of any acquisition we undertake. We might not achieve our expected return on investment, or may lose money. If we are unable to complete the number and kind of acquisitions for which we plan, or if we are inefficient or unsuccessful at
integrating any acquired businesses into our operations, we may not be able to achieve our planned rates of growth or improve our market share, profitability or competitive position in specific markets or services.   
    Consolidation in the industries that we serve could adversely affect our business.     
  Companies in the industries that we serve may seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other
companies. If two or more of our current clients merge or consolidate and combine their operations, it may decrease the amount of work that we perform for these clients. If one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies
on another provider for its consulting, systems integration and technology, or outsourcing services, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work. The increased market power of larger companies could also
increase pricing and competitive pressures on us. Any of these possible results of industry consolidation could adversely affect our business.   
    Our share price and results of operations could fluctuate and be difficult to predict.     
  Our share price has fluctuated in the past and could continue to fluctuate in the future in response to various factors. These factors
include:       

changes in macroeconomic or political factors unrelated to our business;      

general or industry-specific market conditions or changes in financial markets;      

announcements by us or our competitors about developments in our business or prospects;      

projections or speculation about our business or that of our competitors by the media or investment analysts;      
         32   

Table of Contents  

changes in our revenues, results of operations and profitability;      

our ability to generate enough free cash flow to return cash to our shareholders at historical levels or levels expected by our shareholders; and

our failure to meet our growth and financial objectives, including with respect to revenue and earnings per share growth.      
  Our results of operations have varied in the past and are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the future, making them
difficult to predict. Some of the factors that could cause our results of operations to vary include:       

the business decisions of our clients to begin to curtail or reduce the use of our services, including in response to economic conditions;

contract delivery inefficiencies, such as those due to poor delivery or changes in forecasts;     

seasonality, including number of workdays and holiday and summer vacations;      

periodic differences between our clients  estimated and actual levels of business activity associated with ongoing work;

the stage of completion of existing projects and/or their termination or restructuring;      

our ability to transition employees quickly from completed to new projects;      

the introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors;      

changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors;      

our ability to manage costs, including those for personnel, travel, support services and severance;      

our ability to maintain an appropriate headcount in each of our workforces;      

acquisition and integration costs related to possible acquisitions of other businesses;      

changes in, or the application of changes in, accounting principles or pronouncements under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles,
particularly those related to revenue recognition;          

currency exchange rate fluctuations;          

changes in estimates, accruals or payments of variable compensation to our employees; and      

global, regional and local economic and political conditions and related risks, including acts of terrorism.      
  As a result of any of the above factors, or any of the other risks described in this Item 1A.  Risk Factors,  our share
price could be difficult to predict and our share price in the past might not be a good indicator of the price of our shares in the future. In addition, if litigation is instituted against us following variability in our share price, we might need
to devote substantial time and resources to responding to the litigation, and our share price could be materially adversely affected.   
    Our share price could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls.     
  The accuracy of our financial reporting is dependent on the effectiveness of our internal controls. We are required to provide a report
from management to our shareholders on our internal control over financial reporting that includes an assessment of the effectiveness of these controls. Internal control over financial reporting has inherent limitations, including human error, the
possibility that controls could be circumvented or become inadequate because of changed conditions, and fraud. Because of these inherent   
         33   

Table of Contents  

limitations, internal control over financial reporting might not prevent or detect all misstatements or fraud. If we cannot maintain and execute adequate internal control over financial reporting
or implement required new or improved controls that provide reasonable assurance of the reliability of the financial reporting and preparation of our financial statements for external use, we could suffer harm to our reputation, fail to meet our
public reporting requirements on a timely basis, be unable to properly report on our business and our results of operations, or be required to restate our financial statements, and the market price of our securities could be materially adversely
affected.        We are incorporated in Ireland and a significant portion of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it
might not be possible for shareholders to enforce civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States.        We are organized under the laws of Ireland, and a significant portion of our assets are located outside the United States. A shareholder who obtains a court judgment based on the civil liability
provisions of U.S. federal or state securities laws may be unable to enforce the judgment against us in Ireland or in countries other than the United States where we have assets. In addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of
Ireland and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States or would
hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the United States and Ireland do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial
matters. The laws of Ireland do however, as a general rule, provide that the judgments of the courts of the United States have the same validity in Ireland as if rendered by Irish Courts. Certain important requirements must be satisfied before the
Irish Courts will recognize the United States judgment. The originating court must have been a court of competent jurisdiction and the judgment may not be recognized if it was obtained by fraud or its recognition would be contrary to Irish public
policy. Any judgment obtained in contravention of the rules of natural justice or that is irreconcilable with an earlier foreign judgment would not be enforced in Ireland. Similarly, judgments might not be enforceable in countries other than the
United States where we have assets.        Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and might afford less protection to
shareholders.        Our shareholders could have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a
corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Companies Acts 1963 to 2009 of Ireland ( the Companies Acts ). The Companies Acts differ in some significant, and possibly
material, respects from laws applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders under various state corporation laws, including the provisions relating to interested directors, mergers and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and
indemnification of directors.      Under Irish law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the
company only. Shareholders of Irish companies do not generally have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company under Irish law, and may only do so in limited circumstances. Directors of an Irish company must, in exercising
their powers and performing their duties, act with due care and skill, honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company. Directors have a duty not to put themselves in a position in which their duties to the company and
their personal interests might conflict and also are under a duty to disclose any personal interest in any contract or arrangement with the company or any of its subsidiaries. If a director or officer of an Irish company is found to have breached
his duties to that company, he could be held personally liable to the company in respect of that breach of duty.   
         34   

Table of Contents  

         We might be unable to access
additional capital on favorable terms or at all. If we raise equity capital, it may dilute our shareholders  ownership interest in us.        We might choose to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in order to:       

take advantage of opportunities, including more rapid expansion;      

acquire other businesses or assets;          

repurchase shares from our shareholders;          

develop new services and solutions; or          

respond to competitive pressures.         Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity could dilute shareholders  ownership percentage in us. Furthermore, any additional financing we need might not be available on terms favorable
to us, or at all.       

ITEM 1B.   
   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS      
  None.       

ITEM 2.   
   PROPERTIES         We have major
offices in the world s leading business centers, including New York, London, Frankfurt, Paris, Madrid, Chicago, Milan, Tokyo, Sao Paolo, Rome, Bangalore, San Francisco, Sydney, Manila and Boston, among others. In total, we have offices and
operations in more than 200 cities in 53 countries around the world. We do not own any material real property. Substantially all of our office space is leased under long-term leases with varying expiration dates. We believe that our
facilities are adequate to meet our needs in the near future.       

ITEM 3.   
   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS         We are
involved in a number of judicial and arbitration proceedings concerning matters arising in the ordinary course of our business. We and/or our personnel also from time to time are involved in investigations by various regulatory or legal authorities
concerning matters arising in the course of our business around the world. We do not expect that any of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition.   
  As previously reported, in April 2007, the U.S. Department of Justice (the  DOJ ) intervened in a civil  qui tam 
action previously filed under seal by two private individuals in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas against Accenture and several of its indirect subsidiaries. The complaint as amended alleges that, in connection with work
we undertook for the U.S. federal government, we received payments, resale revenue or other benefits as a result of, or otherwise acted improperly in connection with, alliance agreements we maintain with technology vendors and others in violation of
our contracts with the U.S. government and/or applicable law or regulations. Similar suits were brought against other companies in our industry. The suit alleges that these amounts and relationships were not disclosed to the government in violation
of the Federal False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Act, among other statutes. The DOJ complaint seeks various remedies including treble damages, statutory penalties and disgorgement of profits. While the complaint does not allege damages with
specificity, the amount sought by the DOJ will depend on the theories it pursues and could be significant. The suit could lead to other related proceedings and actions by various agencies of the U.S. government, including potential suspension or
debarment proceedings. We intend to defend such matters vigorously and do not believe they will have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition.   
         35   

Table of Contents  

       We currently maintain
the types and amounts of insurance customary in the industries and countries in which we operate, including coverage for professional liability, general liability and management liability. We consider our insurance coverage to be adequate both as to
the risks and amounts for the businesses we conduct.       

ITEM 4.   
   (REMOVED AND RESERVED)          Executive
Officers of the Registrant       Our executive officers and persons chosen to become executive officers as of the date hereof
are as follows:       Kevin Campbell , 50, became our group chief executive Technology in September 2009, after serving
as our group chief executive Outsourcing beginning in September 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Campbell served as our senior managing director Business Process Outsourcing from February 2005 to September 2006. Previously, he served as the
vice president of global sales at Hewitt Associates from September 2004 to February 2005, and as president and chief operating officer of Exult Inc. from May 2000 to September 2004, when Exult merged with Hewitt. Mr. Campbell was previously
employed by Accenture from 1982 until 1999.       Gianfranco Casati , 51, became our group chief executive Products
operating group in September 2006. From April 2002 to September 2006, Mr. Casati was managing director of the Products operating group s Europe operating unit. He also served as Accenture s country managing director for Italy and as
chairman of our geographic council in its IGEM (Italy, Greece, emerging markets) region, supervising Accenture offices in Italy, Greece and several Eastern European countries. Mr. Casati has been with Accenture for 26 years.   
   Martin I. Cole , 54, became our group chief executive Communications   High Tech operating group in September 2006,
after serving as our group chief executive Public Service operating group from September 2004 to September 2006. From September 2000 to August 2004, he served in leadership roles in our outsourcing group, including serving as global managing
partner of our Outsourcing   Infrastructure Delivery group. Mr. Cole has been with Accenture for 30 years.   
   Anthony G. Coughlan , 53, has been our principal accounting officer since September 2004 and served as our controller from September
2001 until August 2010. He has served as a director of Avanade since September 2008 and has served as the chair of its Audit Committee since November 2008. Mr. Coughlan has been with Accenture for 32 years.   
   Pamela J. Craig , 53, has been our chief financial officer since October 2006. From March 2004 to October 2006, she was our senior
vice president Finance. Previously, Ms. Craig was our group director Business Operations   Services from March 2003 to March 2004, and was our managing partner Global Business Operations from June 2001 to March
2003. Ms. Craig served as a director of Avanade from February 2006 until July 2009, and was a member of its Audit Committee. Ms. Craig has been with Accenture for 31 years.   
   Johan (Jo) G. Deblaere , 48, became our chief operating officer in September 2009. From September 2006 to September 2009,
Mr. Deblaere served as our chief operating officer Outsourcing. Prior to that, from September 2005 to September 2006 he led our global network of business process outsourcing delivery centers. From September 2000 to September 2005, he had
overall responsibility for work with public-sector clients in Western Europe. Mr. Deblaere has been with Accenture for 25 years.       Karl-Heinz Floether , 58, became our chief strategy   corporate development officer in September 2009. From May 2005 to September 2009, Mr. Floether was our group chief
executive Systems Integration   Technology. Prior to that, he served as our group chief executive Financial Services   
         36   

Table of Contents  

operating group from December 1999 to May 2005. In addition, Mr. Floether served as one of our directors from June 2001 to February 2004, and is currently a director of Avanade.
Mr. Floether has been with Accenture for 31 years.       Mark Foster , 51, became our group chief
executive Management Consulting in September 2006. In addition, Mr. Foster became the head of our Global Markets area in September 2009. Prior to that, Mr. Foster served as our group chief executive Products operating group from
March 2002 to September 2006. From September 2000 to March 2002, he was managing partner of our Products operating group in Europe. Mr. Foster has been with Accenture for 26 years.   
   Robert N. Frerichs , 58, became our group chief executive North America in September 2009. From September 2004 to September
2009, Mr. Frerichs served as our chief risk officer. Prior to that, he served as our chief operating officer Communication   High Tech from November 2003 to September 2004. From August 2001 to November 2003, he led the market
maker team for our Communications   High Tech operating group. Prior to these roles, Mr. Frerichs held numerous leadership positions within our Communications   High Tech operating group. He currently serves as chairman of the
Board of Directors of Avanade, and is a member of its Audit Committee. Mr. Frerichs has been with Accenture for 34 years.   
   William D. Green , 57, became chairman of the Board of Directors on August 31, 2006, and has been our chief executive officer
since September 2004 and a director since June 2001. From March 2003 to August 2004 he was our chief operating officer Client Services, and from August 2000 to August 2004 he was our country managing director, United States. Mr. Green has
been with Accenture for 32 years. Mr. Green will retire as our chief executive officer on January 1, 2011, but will continue in his position as a director and chairman of the Board of Directors.   
   Pierre Nanterme , 51, became our group chief executive Financial Services operating group in September 2007. Prior to assuming
this role, Mr. Nanterme held various leadership roles throughout the Company, including serving as our chief leadership officer from May 2006 through September 2007, and our country managing director for France from November 2005 to September
2007. Mr. Nanterme has been with Accenture for 27 years. Mr. Nanterme has been designated to succeed Mr. Green as our chief executive officer effective January 1, 2011. Mr. Nanterme was appointed to our Board of Directors on October 20, 2010.
      Jeffrey D. Osborne , 45, became our chief performance officer in April 2010. From August 2005 through April 2010,
Mr. Osborne held various leadership roles for Accenture s Business Process Outsourcing growth platform, including serving as the chief operating officer and global delivery lead. Mr. Osborne has been with Accenture for 5 years.
Prior to joining Accenture, Mr. Osborne spent 18 years in manufacturing with aerospace manufacturer Honeywell.       Stephen J.
Rohleder , 53, became our group chief executive Health   Public Service operating group in September 2009. From September 2004 to September 2009, Mr. Rohleder served as our chief operating officer. Prior to that, he was our
group chief executive Public Service operating group from March 2003 to September 2004. From March 2000 to March 2003, he was managing partner of our Public Service operating group in the United States. Mr. Rohleder has been with Accenture
for 29 years.       Michael (Mike) J. Salvino , 45, became our group chief executive Business Process Outsourcing in
September 2009. From July 2006 to September 2009, Mr. Salvino served as managing director Business Process Outsourcing. Previously, he served as the global sales and accounts co-leader of the HR outsourcing group at Hewitt Associates from
January 2005 to July 2006, and as president of the Americas region for Exult Inc. from June 2003 to October 2004 prior to Exult s merger with Hewitt. Mr. Salvino was employed by Accenture from June 1987 until December 1992 and then again
from October 1993 until June 2000 before rejoining in July 2006.   
         37   

Table of Contents  

        Douglas G.
Scrivner , 59, became an executive in the office of the chief executive officer in March 2010. From January 1996 to March 2010, Mr. Scrivner served as our general counsel and secretary. Mr. Scrivner also served as our compliance
officer from September 2001 until March 2010. Mr. Scrivner has been with Accenture for 30 years. Mr. Scrivner will be retiring from Accenture in January 2011.       Julie Spellman Sweet , 43, has been our general counsel, secretary and chief compliance officer since March 2010. Prior to joining Accenture, Ms. Sweet was, for 10 years, a partner in the
Corporate department of the law firm of Cravath, Swaine   Moore LLP, which she joined as an associate in 1992.   
   Alexander M. van  t Noordende , 47, became our group chief executive Resources operating group in September 2006. Prior to
assuming that role, he led our Resources operating group in Southern Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Latin America, and served as managing partner of the Resources operating group in France, Belgium and the Netherlands. From 2001 until September
2006, he served as our country managing director for the Netherlands. Mr. van  t Noordende has been with Accenture for 23 years.   
         38   

Table of Contents  

        PART II

ITEM 5.   
   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES      
   Price Range of Accenture plc Class A Ordinary Shares       Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol  ACN.  The New York Stock Exchange is the principal United States market for these shares.
     The following table sets forth, on a per share basis for the periods indicated, the high and low sale prices for Accenture plc
Class A ordinary shares (or, prior to September 1, 2009, Accenture Ltd Class A common shares) as reported by the New York Stock Exchange.       

(1)  
  On May 6, 2010, between 2:40pm EDT and 3:00pm EDT, U.S. equity markets experienced a rapid, severe decline and corresponding recovery, which has become known as
the  flash crash.  Our stock was one of the securities involved in the  flash crash  and, because of this event, shows an intraday low on the consolidated tape of trades on all exchanges and market centers of $17.74; while
on the NYSE, which is our primary listing exchange, the intraday low was $38.75.        The closing sale price of an
Accenture plc Class A ordinary share as reported by the New York Stock Exchange consolidated tape as of October 12, 2010 was $45.73. As of October 12, 2010, there were 247 holders of record of Accenture plc Class A ordinary
shares.      There is no trading market for Accenture plc Class X ordinary shares. As of October 12, 2010, there were
1,037 holders of record of Accenture plc Class X ordinary shares.      To ensure that senior executives
continue to maintain equity ownership levels that we consider meaningful, we require current senior executives to comply with the Accenture Senior Executive Equity Ownership Policy. This policy requires senior executives to own Accenture equity
valued at a multiple (ranging from                1   /  2   to 6) of their base compensation determined by their position
level.        Dividend Policy       Accenture historically declared and paid dividends on an annual basis. On November 16, 2009 and November 17, 2008, we paid a cash dividend of $0.75 and $0.50 per share, respectively, on our
Class A shares and Accenture SCA paid a cash dividend of $0.75 and $0.50 per share, respectively, on its Class I common shares.      In October 2009, we announced a move to declare and pay cash dividends on a semi-annual basis beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2010. As a result, on May 14, 2010, Accenture plc paid its first
  
         39   

Table of Contents  

semi-annual cash dividend of $0.375 per share on our Class A ordinary shares and Accenture SCA paid a semi-annual cash dividend of $0.375 per share on its Class I common shares. It is
currently expected that any semi-annual dividend would be declared in September and March.      On September 29, 2010, the
Board of Directors of Accenture plc declared a semi-annual cash dividend of $0.45 per share on our Class A ordinary shares payable to shareholders of record at the close of business on October 15, 2010. Accenture plc will cause Accenture
SCA to declare a semi-annual cash dividend of $0.45 per share on its Class I common shares payable to shareholders of record at the close of business on October 12, 2010. Both dividends are payable on November 15, 2010.   
  Future dividends on Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, if any, and the timing of declaration of any such dividends, will be at
the discretion of the Board of Directors of Accenture plc and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements and surplus, financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that the Board of Directors
of Accenture plc may deem relevant, as well as our ability to pay dividends in compliance with the Companies Acts.      In certain
circumstances, as an Irish tax resident company, we may be required to deduct Irish dividend withholding tax (currently at the rate of 20%) from dividends paid to our shareholders. Shareholders resident in  relevant territories  (including
countries that are European Union member states (other than Ireland), the United States and other countries with which Ireland has a tax treaty) may be exempted from Irish dividend withholding tax. However, shareholders residing in other countries
will generally be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax.       Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities    
  None.   
         40   

Table of Contents  

        Purchases and redemptions of
Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and Class X ordinary shares       The following table provides information
relating to the Company s purchases of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and redemptions of Accenture plc Class X ordinary shares for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. For year-to-date information on all share purchases,
redemptions and exchanges by the Company and further discussion of the Company s share purchase activity, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital
Resources Share Purchases and Redemptions.        

(1)  
  Average price per share reflects the total cash outlay for the period, divided by the number of shares acquired, including those acquired by redemption or purchase and
any acquired by means of employee forfeiture.         

(2)  
  Since August 2001, the Board of Directors of Accenture plc has authorized and periodically confirmed a publicly announced open-market share purchase program for
acquiring Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we repurchased 17,090,402 Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares under this program for an aggregate price of $667 million. The open-market purchase
program does not have an expiration date.         

(3)  
  As of August 31, 2010, our aggregate available authorization for share repurchases and redemptions was $2,920 million, which management has the discretion to
use for either our publicly announced open-market share purchase program or the other share purchase programs. Since August 2001 and as of August 31, 2010, the Board of Directors of Accenture plc has authorized an aggregate of
$15.1 billion for repurchases and redemptions of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares.     

(4)  
  During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, Accenture purchased 862,734 Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares in transactions unrelated to publicly announced share
plans or programs. These transactions primarily consisted of acquisitions of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares via share withholding for payroll tax obligations due from employees and former employees in connection with the delivery of
Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares under our various employee equity share plans.         
 
         41   

Table of Contents  

        Purchases and redemptions of
Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares       The following table
provides additional information relating to purchases and redemptions of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. We believe that the following table
and footnotes provide useful information regarding the share purchase and redemption activity of Accenture. Generally, purchases and redemptions of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares
reduce shares outstanding for purposes of computing diluted earnings per share.       

(1)  
  During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we acquired a total of 887,959 Accenture SCA Class I common shares and 79,199 Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable
shares from current and former senior executives and their permitted transferees. This includes acquisitions by means of redemption or purchase, or employee share forfeiture, as applicable.     

(2)  
  Average price per share reflects the total cash outlay for the period, divided by the number of shares acquired, including those acquired by redemption or purchase and
any acquired by means of employee forfeiture.         

(3)  
  As of August 31, 2010, our aggregate available authorization for share repurchases and redemptions was $2,920 million, which management has the discretion to
use for either our publicly announced open-market share purchase program or the other share purchase programs. Since August 2001 and as of August 31, 2010, the Board of Directors of Accenture plc has authorized an aggregate of
$15.1 billion for repurchases and redemptions of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares.     
         42   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 6.   
   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA      
  The data as of August 31, 2010 and 2009 and for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 are derived from the audited Consolidated Financial
Statements and related Notes that are included elsewhere in this report. The data as of August 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 and for fiscal 2007 and 2006 are derived from audited Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes that are not
included in this report. The selected financial data should be read in conjunction with  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and our Consolidated Financial Statements and related
Notes included elsewhere in this report.       

(1)  
  Includes the impact of the restructuring costs recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations Results of Operations for Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008 Restructuring and Reorganization Costs, net          

(2)  
  Includes the financial impact of the resolution of the NHS matter recorded during fiscal 2006. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations  Results of Operations for the Year Ended August 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended August 31, 2006  in our Form 10-K for fiscal 2008.     

(3)  
  Includes the impact of the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 123R,   Share-Based Payment.       

(4)  
  On September 1, 2009, the Company adopted guidance issued by the FASB on noncontrolling interests. As required, the guidance on noncontrolling interests was
applied prospectively with the exception of presentation and disclosure requirements, which were applied retrospectively for all periods presented. Prior to fiscal 2010, Net income was referred to as Income before minority interest and Net income
attributable to Accenture plc was referred to as Net income.         

(1)  
  On September 1, 2009, the Company adopted guidance issued by the FASB on noncontrolling interests. As required, the guidance on noncontrolling interests was
applied prospectively with the exception of presentation and disclosure requirements, which were applied retrospectively for all periods presented.     
         43   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      
   The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes
included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion and analysis also contains forward-looking statements and should also be read in conjunction with the disclosures and information contained in  Disclosure Regarding
Forward-Looking Statements  and  Risk Factors  in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.        We use the terms
 Accenture,   we,  the  Company,   our  and  us  in this report to refer to Accenture plc, an Irish public limited company, and its subsidiaries or, prior to September 1, 2009, to Accenture Ltd,
a Bermuda exempted company that, on that date, became a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Accenture plc, and its subsidiaries. All references to years, unless otherwise noted, refer to our fiscal year, which ends on August 31. For example, a
reference to  fiscal 2010  means the 12-month period that ended on August 31, 2010. All references to quarters, unless otherwise noted, refer to the quarters of our fiscal year.    
   We use the term  in local currency  so that certain financial results may be viewed without the impact of foreign currency
exchange rate fluctuations, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of business performance. Financial results  in local currency  are calculated by restating current period activity into U.S. dollars using the comparable
prior-year period s foreign currency exchange rates. This approach is used for all results where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar.        Overview       Our results of operations are affected by economic conditions,
including macroeconomic conditions, credit market conditions and levels of business confidence. Revenues are driven by the ability of our executives to secure new contracts and to deliver solutions and services that add value relevant to our
clients  current needs and challenges. The level of revenues we achieve is based on our ability to deliver market-leading service offerings and to deploy skilled teams of professionals quickly and on a global basis.   
  Revenues before reimbursements ( net revenues ) for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 were $5.42 billion, compared with $5.15
billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, an increase of 5% in U.S. dollars and 8% in local currency. Although some industries and geographies where we operate continue to be impacted by the economic downturn that began to adversely affect our
business in January 2009, overall market demand for our services has improved in recent quarters. Based on new contract bookings recorded in fiscal 2010, we expect growth to continue in most areas of our business. In the fourth quarter of fiscal
2010, four of our five operating groups, including Products, Financial Services, Resources and Communications   High Tech, experienced quarterly year-over-year revenue growth in local currency. Looking forward, we anticipate that the level
of growth will vary across segments and geographic regions and between consulting and outsourcing services. In addition, given there is still economic uncertainty in some markets around the world, our ability to effectively respond to changing
client demand patterns will be a key driver of our performance.      Net revenues for fiscal 2010 were $21.55 billion, compared
with $21.58 billion in fiscal 2009, flat in U.S. dollars and a decrease of 2% in local currency. During fiscal 2010, many of the industries and geographies where we operate continued to be impacted by the economic downturn. This adversely affected
our year-over-year consulting and outsourcing revenue growth, primarily in the first half of fiscal 2010.      In our consulting
business, net revenues for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 were $3.09 billion, compared with $2.91 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, an increase of 6% in U.S. dollars and 9% in local currency. Consulting net revenues for fiscal 2010
were $12.37 billion, compared with $12.56   
         44   

Table of Contents  

billion for fiscal 2009, a decrease of 1% in U.S. dollars and 4% in local currency. Although fiscal 2010 consulting revenues reflect the impact of the economic downturn, overall market demand for
our consulting services improved during the second half of fiscal 2010. Beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2010 and to a greater degree in the fourth quarter, we experienced quarterly year-over-year consulting revenue growth in local currency.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, consulting growth in four of our five operating groups, led by Products and Financial Services, was offset by a decline in Health   Public Service, primarily due to our public service business. We are
providing a greater proportion of systems integration consulting through use of lower-cost resources in our Global Delivery Network. This trend is resulting in work volume growing faster than revenues, and we expect this to continue in the medium
term. Clients continue to focus on initiatives designed to deliver near- and medium-term cost savings and performance improvement. Projects with growth and transformational objectives are returning; however, clients remain cautious, seeking
flexibility by using a phased approach to contracting work. In addition, the pricing environment continues to be competitive.   
  In our outsourcing business, net revenues for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 were $2.33 billion, compared with $2.23 billion for the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, an increase of 4% in U.S. dollars and 7% in local currency. Outsourcing net revenues for fiscal 2010 were $9.18 billion, compared with $9.02 billion for fiscal 2009, an increase of 2% in U.S. dollars and flat in local
currency. Overall market demand for our outsourcing services improved during the second half of fiscal 2010, and we are beginning to experience higher volumes and scope expansions on existing contracts. Beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2010
and to a greater degree in the fourth quarter, we experienced quarterly year-over-year outsourcing revenue growth in local currency, with significant growth in Products. However, our outsourcing revenue growth during fiscal 2010 continued to be
adversely impacted in three operating groups, primarily in Financial Services and to a lesser extent in Communications   High Tech and Resources, by the higher volume of contract terminations and restructurings that began to affect our
business after the first quarter of fiscal 2009. We do not expect the fiscal 2009 contract terminations and restructurings to have a material year-over-year impact to outsourcing revenue growth in future periods. In addition, we are providing a
greater proportion of outsourcing services through use of lower-cost resources at reduced price levels.      As we are a global
company, our revenues are denominated in multiple currencies and may be significantly affected by currency exchange-rate fluctuations. If the U.S. dollar weakens against other currencies, resulting in favorable currency translation, our revenues and
revenue growth in U.S. dollars may be higher. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, resulting in unfavorable currency translation, our revenues and revenue growth in U.S. dollars may be lower. When compared to fiscal 2009,
the U.S. dollar weakened against many currencies in fiscal 2010. This resulted in favorable currency translation and U.S. dollar revenue results that were approximately 2% better than our results in local currency for fiscal 2010.   
  The primary categories of operating expenses include cost of services, sales and marketing and general and administrative costs. Cost of
services is primarily driven by the cost of client-service personnel, which consists mainly of compensation, sub-contractor and other personnel costs, and non-payroll outsourcing costs. Cost of services as a percentage of revenues is driven by the
prices we obtain for our solutions and services, the utilization of our client-service personnel and the level of non-payroll costs associated with new outsourcing contracts. Utilization represents the percentage of our consulting
professionals  time spent on billable work. Utilization for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 was approximately 86%, flat with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, a decrease from 88% for the third quarter of fiscal 2010 and more in line with our
target range. This level of utilization reflects continued demand for resources in our Global Delivery Network as well as an increase in demand in certain countries, including the United States. We are actively hiring to meet current and projected
future demand.      Our cost-management strategies include anticipating changes in demand for our services and executing
cost-management initiatives. We aggressively plan and manage our payroll costs and take   
         45   

Table of Contents  

actions as needed to address changes in the anticipated demand for our services, given that payroll costs are the most significant portion of our operating expenses. These cost-management
strategies also include executing an increasing amount of our client delivery from our Global Delivery Network in lower-cost locations. Based on current and projected future demand, we increased our headcount, the majority of which serve our
clients, to approximately 204,000 as of August 31, 2010, compared with approximately 177,000 as of August 31, 2009. Annualized attrition, excluding involuntary terminations, for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 was 17%, flat with the
third quarter of fiscal 2010 and more in line with historical levels prior to the economic downturn. This compares with 10% for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. We adjust levels of new hiring, evaluate voluntary attrition and use involuntary
terminations as means to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand. In addition, we also adjust compensation in certain skill sets and geographies in order to attract and retain appropriate numbers of qualified employees,
and we may need to continue to adjust compensation in the future. Compensation increases for fiscal 2011, which for the majority of our personnel were effective September 1, 2010, are higher than in the prior fiscal year. As in prior fiscal
years, we expect to adjust pricing and/or the mix of resources to reduce the impact of this on our gross margin. Our ability to grow our revenues and increase our margins could be adversely affected if we are unable to hire sufficient employees with
the skills and background where they are needed, manage attrition, recover increases in compensation and/or effectively assimilate and utilize new employees.      Gross margin (Net revenues less Cost of services before reimbursable expenses as a percentage of Net revenues) for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 was 34.0%, compared with 32.3% for the fourth quarter
of fiscal 2009. Gross margin for fiscal 2010 was 33.6%, compared with 31.7% for fiscal 2009. As discussed more fully below, the primary driver for the increase in gross margin for fiscal 2010 was a change related to the implementation of our
sales-effectiveness model, which directed a higher percentage of resource capacity to selling and other business-development activities and streamlined our approach to capturing time spent on business-development activities.   
  Sales and marketing and general and administrative costs as a percentage of net revenues were 20.9% for the fourth quarter fiscal 2010,
compared with 19.1% for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. Sales and marketing and general and administrative costs as a percentage of net revenues were 20.1% for fiscal 2010, compared with 18.3% for fiscal 2009. Sales and marketing is driven
primarily by compensation costs for business-development activities, investment in service offerings, and marketing- and advertising-related activities. General and administrative costs primarily include costs for non-client-facing personnel,
information systems and office space. We continuously monitor these costs and implement cost-management actions, as appropriate, to maintain or lower these costs as a percentage of revenues. These actions include performing a greater proportion
of these activities in lower-cost locations. During fiscal 2010, we directed a higher percentage of resource capacity to selling and other business-development activities and we streamlined our approach to capturing time spent on
business-development activities. The combination of these two factors has resulted in a greater amount of payroll costs for our client-services personnel being directed to sales and marketing rather than to other activities, which are typically
captured in cost of services. We have not reclassified fiscal 2009 amounts to conform to the fiscal 2010 presentation, as it would be impractical to do so. The increase in sales and marketing in fiscal 2010 was partially offset by a decrease in
general and administrative costs as a percentage of net revenues, primarily due to expense savings resulting from the global consolidation of office space in fiscal 2009. In addition, in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, general and administrative
costs included a bad debt provision of $72 million, which reflected our best estimate of collectibility risks on outstanding receivables, particularly from clients in high-risk industries or with potential liquidity issues. Our margins could be
adversely affected if our cost-management actions are not sufficient to maintain sales and marketing and general and administrative costs at or below current levels as a percentage of net revenues.   
         46   

Table of Contents  

       Operating income for
the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 was $714 million, compared with $420 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. Operating margin (Operating income as a percentage of net revenues) for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 was 13.2%, compared with
8.2% for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. Operating income for fiscal 2010 was $2,915 million, compared with $2,644 million for fiscal 2009. Operating margin for fiscal 2010 was 13.5%, compared with 12.3% for fiscal 2009. Restructuring costs of
$253 million recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 reduced Operating margin by 110 basis points for fiscal 2009. Excluding the effects of the restructuring costs, Operating income as a percentage of net revenues for fiscal 2010 increased 10
basis points compared with fiscal 2009.      Our Operating income and Earnings per share are also affected by currency
exchange-rate fluctuations on revenues and costs. Most of our costs are incurred in the same currency as the related net revenues. Where practical, we also seek to manage foreign currency exposure for costs not incurred in the same currency as the
related net revenues by using currency protection provisions in our customer contracts and through our hedging programs. We estimate that the aggregate percentage impact of foreign exchange rates on our operating expenses is similar to that
disclosed for net revenues. For more information on our hedging programs, see Note 7 (Derivative Financial Instruments) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.    
   Bookings and Backlog    
  New contract bookings for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 were $6.51 billion, with consulting bookings of $3.54 billion and outsourcing
bookings of $2.97 billion. New contract bookings for fiscal 2010 were $24.98 billion, with consulting bookings of $13.62 billion and outsourcing bookings of $11.36 billion.      We provide information regarding our new contract bookings because we believe doing so provides useful trend information regarding changes in the volume of our new business over time. However, new
bookings can vary significantly quarter to quarter depending in part on the timing of the signing of a small number of large outsourcing contracts. Clients are seeking flexibility by using a phased approach to contracting consulting work, which is
resulting in smaller initial total contract values than in the past. Information regarding our new bookings is not comparable to, nor should it be substituted for, an analysis of our revenues over time. There are no third-party standards or
requirements governing the calculation of bookings. New contract bookings involve estimates and judgments regarding new contracts as well as renewals, extensions and changes to existing contracts. We do not update our new bookings for material
subsequent terminations or reductions related to bookings originally recorded in prior fiscal years. New contract bookings are recorded using then-existing foreign currency exchange rates and are not subsequently adjusted for foreign currency
exchange rate fluctuations.      The majority of our contracts are terminable by the client on short notice, and some without
notice. Accordingly, we do not believe it is appropriate to characterize bookings attributable to these contracts as backlog. Normally, if a client terminates a project, the client remains obligated to pay for commitments we have made to third
parties in connection with the project, services performed and reimbursable expenses incurred by us through the date of termination.   
   Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates       The preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. We continually evaluate our estimates, judgments and
assumptions based on available information and experience. Because the use of estimates is inherent in the financial reporting process, actual results could differ from   
         47   

Table of Contents  

those estimates. Certain of our accounting policies require higher degrees of judgment than others in their application. These include certain aspects of accounting for revenue recognition and
income taxes.        Revenue Recognition        Our contracts have different terms based on the scope, deliverables and complexity of the engagement, the terms of which frequently require us to make judgments and estimates in recognizing revenues. We
have many types of contracts, including time-and-materials contracts, fixed-price contracts and contracts with features of both of these contract types. In addition, some contracts include incentives related to costs incurred, benefits produced or
adherence to schedule that may increase the variability in revenues and margins earned on such contracts. We conduct rigorous reviews prior to signing such contracts to evaluate whether these incentives are reasonably achievable.   
  We recognize revenues from technology integration consulting contracts using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, which
involves calculating the percentage of services provided during the reporting period compared with the total estimated services to be provided over the duration of the contract. Estimated revenues used in applying the percentage-of-completion method
include estimated incentives for which achievement of defined goals is deemed probable. This method is followed where reasonably dependable estimates of revenues and costs can be made. Estimates of total contract revenues and costs are continuously
monitored during the term of the contract, and recorded revenues and costs are subject to revision as the contract progresses. Such revisions may result in increases or decreases to revenues and income and are reflected in the Consolidated Financial
Statements in the periods in which they are first identified. If our estimates indicate that a contract loss will occur, a loss provision is recorded in the period in which the loss first becomes probable and reasonably estimable. Contract losses
are determined to be the amount by which the estimated direct and indirect costs of the contract exceed the estimated total revenues that will be generated by the contract and are included in Cost of services and classified in Other accrued
liabilities.      Revenues from contracts for non-technology integration consulting services with fees based on time and materials
or cost-plus are recognized as the services are performed and amounts are earned in accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 101,  Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements  ( SAB 101 ), as
amended by SAB No. 104,  Revenue Recognition  ( SAB 104 ). We consider amounts to be earned once evidence of an arrangement has been obtained, services are delivered, fees are fixed or determinable, and
collectibility is reasonably assured. In such contracts, our efforts, measured by time incurred, typically represent the contractual milestones or output measure, which is the contractual earnings pattern. For non-technology integration consulting
contracts with fixed fees, we recognize revenues as amounts become billable in accordance with contract terms, provided the billable amounts are not contingent, are consistent with the services delivered, and are earned. Contingent or incentive
revenues relating to non-technology integration consulting contracts are recognized when the contingency is satisfied and we conclude the amounts are earned.      Outsourcing contracts typically span several years and involve complex delivery, often through multiple workforces in different countries. In a number of these arrangements, we hire client employees and
become responsible for certain client obligations. Revenues are recognized on outsourcing contracts as amounts become billable in accordance with contract terms, unless the amounts are billed in advance of performance of services, in which case
revenues are recognized when the services are performed and amounts are earned in accordance with SAB 101, as amended by SAB 104. Revenues from time-and-materials or cost-plus contracts are recognized as the services are performed. In such
contracts, our effort, measured by time incurred, represents the contractual milestones or output measure, which is the contractual earnings pattern. Revenues from unit-priced contracts are recognized as transactions are processed based on objective
measures of output. Revenues from fixed-price contracts are recognized on a straight-line basis, unless revenues are earned and obligations are fulfilled in a different pattern.   
         48   

Table of Contents  

Outsourcing contracts can also include incentive payments for benefits delivered to clients. Revenues relating to such incentive payments are recorded when the contingency is satisfied and we
conclude the amounts are earned. We continuously review and reassess our estimates of contract profitability. Circumstances that potentially affect profitability over the life of the contract include decreases in volumes of transactions or other
inputs/outputs on which we are paid, failure to deliver agreed benefits, variances from planned internal/external costs to deliver our services, and other factors affecting revenues and costs.   
  Costs related to delivering outsourcing services are expensed as incurred, with the exception of certain transition costs related to the
set-up of processes, personnel and systems, which are deferred during the transition period and expensed evenly over the period outsourcing services are provided. The deferred costs are specific internal costs or incremental external costs directly
related to transition or set-up activities necessary to enable the outsourced services. Generally, deferred amounts are protected in the event of early termination of the contract and are monitored regularly for impairment. Impairment losses are
recorded when projected undiscounted operating cash flows of the related contract are not sufficient to recover the carrying amount of contract assets. Amounts billable to the client for transition or set-up activities are deferred and recognized as
revenue evenly over the period outsourcing services are provided.      Revenues for contracts with multiple elements are allocated
based on the lesser of the element s relative fair value or the amount that is not contingent on future delivery of another element. If the amount of non-contingent revenues allocated to a delivered element accounted for under the
percentage-of-completion method of accounting is less than the costs to deliver such services, then such costs are deferred and recognized in future periods when the revenues become non-contingent. Fair value is determined based on the prices
charged when each element is sold separately. Revenues are recognized in accordance with our accounting policies for the separate elements when the services have value on a stand-alone basis, fair value of the separate elements exists and, in
arrangements that include a general right of refund relative to the delivered element, performance of the undelivered element is considered probable and substantially in our control. While determining fair value and identifying separate elements
require judgment, generally fair value and the separate elements are readily identifiable as we also sell those elements unaccompanied by other elements.      Revenues recognized in excess of billings are recorded as Unbilled services. Billings in excess of revenues recognized are recorded as Deferred revenues until revenue recognition criteria are met. Client
prepayments (even if nonrefundable) are deferred and recognized over future periods as services are delivered or performed.   
  Our consulting revenues are affected by the number of work days in the fiscal quarter, which in turn is affected by the level of vacation
days and holidays. Consequently, since our first and third quarters typically have approximately 5-10% more work days than our second and fourth quarters, our consulting revenues are typically higher in our first and third quarters than in our
second and fourth quarters.      Net revenues include the margin earned on computer hardware and software resale contracts, as well
as revenues from alliance agreements, neither of which is material to us. Reimbursements include billings for travel and other out-of-pocket expenses and third-party costs, such as the cost of hardware and software resales. In addition,
Reimbursements may include allocations from gross billings to record an amount equivalent to reimbursable costs, where billings do not specifically identify reimbursable expenses. We report revenues net of any revenue-based taxes assessed by
governmental authorities that are imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue-producing transactions.   
         49   

Table of Contents  

         Income Taxes     
  Determining the consolidated provision for income tax expense, income tax liabilities and deferred tax assets and liabilities involves
judgment. As a global company, we calculate and provide for income taxes in each of the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. This involves estimating current tax exposures in each jurisdiction as well as making judgments regarding the
recoverability of deferred tax assets. Tax exposures can involve complex issues and may require an extended period to resolve. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, we consider whether it is more likely than not that some portion or
all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized and adjust the valuation allowances accordingly. Factors considered in making this determination include the period of expiration of the tax asset, planned use of the tax asset, tax planning
strategies and historical and projected taxable income as well as tax liabilities for the tax jurisdiction in which the tax asset is located. Valuation allowances will be subject to change in each future reporting period as a result of changes in
one or more of these factors. Changes in the geographic mix or estimated level of annual income before taxes can affect the overall effective tax rate.      We apply an estimated annual effective tax rate to our quarterly operating results to determine the interim provision for income tax expense. In accordance with FASB guidance on uncertainty in income
taxes, a change in judgment that impacts the measurement of a tax position taken in a prior year is recognized as a discrete item in the interim period in which the change occurs. In the event there is a significant unusual or infrequent item
recognized in our quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item is recorded in the interim period in which it occurs.      No taxes have been provided on undistributed foreign earnings that are planned to be indefinitely reinvested. If future events, including material changes in estimates of cash, working capital and
long-term investment requirements, necessitate that these earnings be distributed, an additional provision for withholding taxes may apply, which could materially affect our future effective tax rate.   
  As a matter of course, we are regularly audited by various taxing authorities, and sometimes these audits result in proposed assessments
where the ultimate resolution may result in us owing additional taxes. We establish tax liabilities or reduce tax assets for uncertain tax positions when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are appropriate and supportable under local
tax law, we believe we may not succeed in realizing the tax benefit of certain positions if challenged. In evaluating a tax position, we determine whether it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including
resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. Our estimate of the ultimate tax liability contains assumptions based on past experiences, judgments about potential actions by taxing
jurisdictions as well as judgments about the likely outcome of issues that have been raised by taxing jurisdictions. The tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate
settlement. We evaluate these uncertain tax positions each quarter and adjust the related tax liabilities or assets in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of a tax audit or the expiration of a statute of limitations. We
believe the estimates and assumptions used to support our evaluation of uncertain tax positions are reasonable. However, final determinations of prior-year tax liabilities, either by settlement with tax authorities or expiration of statutes of
limitations, could be materially different from estimates reflected in assets and liabilities and historical income tax provisions. The outcome of these final determinations could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income, or
cash flows in the period in which that determination is made. We believe our tax positions comply with applicable tax law and that we have adequately accounted for uncertain tax positions.   
         50   

Table of Contents  

        Revenues by Segment/Operating Group
      Our five reportable operating segments are our operating groups, which are Communications   High Tech, Financial
Services, Health   Public Service (formed on September 1, 2009, by combining various healthcare-related components of our Products operating group with our Public Service operating group), Products and Resources. Operating groups are
managed on the basis of Net revenues because our management believes Net revenues are a better indicator of operating group performance than revenues. In addition to reporting net revenues by operating group, we also report net revenues by two types
of work: consulting and outsourcing, which represent the services sold by our operating groups. Consulting net revenues, which include management and technology consulting and systems integration, reflect a finite, distinct project or set of
projects with a defined outcome and typically a defined set of specific deliverables. Outsourcing net revenues typically reflect ongoing, repeatable services or capabilities provided to transition, run and/or manage operations of client systems or
business functions.      From time to time, our operating groups work together to sell and implement certain contracts. The
resulting revenues and costs from these contracts may be apportioned among the participating operating groups. Generally, operating expenses for each operating group have similar characteristics and are subject to the same factors, pressures and
challenges. However, the economic environment and its effects on the industries served by our operating groups affect revenues and operating expenses within our operating groups to differing degrees. The mix between consulting and outsourcing is not
uniform among our operating groups. Local currency fluctuations also tend to affect our operating groups differently, depending on the geographic concentrations and locations of their businesses.   
  While we provide discussion about our results of operations below, we cannot measure how much of our revenue growth in a particular period
is attributable to changes in price or volume. Management does not track standard measures of unit or rate volume. Instead, our measures of volume and price are extremely complex, as each of our services contracts is unique, reflecting a customized
mix of specific services that does not fit into standard comparability measurements. Pricing for our services is a function of the nature of each service to be provided, the skills required and outcome sought, as well as estimated cost, risk,
contract terms and other factors.   
         51   

Table of Contents  

        Results of Operations for Fiscal
2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009       Net revenues (by operating group, geography and type of work) and reimbursements were as
follows:       
        n/m = not
meaningful       

(1)  
  On September 1, 2009, we formed the Health   Public Service operating group by combining various healthcare-related components of our Products operating
group with our Public Service operating group. Prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current-period presentation.         

(2)  
  May not total due to rounding.         

(3)  
  EMEA includes Europe, Middle East and Africa.        We conduct business in the following countries that individually comprised 10% or more of consolidated net revenues within fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008:   

52   

Table of Contents  

         Net Revenues     
    Operating Groups        The following net revenues by operating group commentary discusses local currency net revenues changes in aggregate for fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009:   

Communications   High Tech net revenues decreased 7% in local currency. Consulting revenues declined significantly in local currency,
primarily due to declines across all industry groups in EMEA and Asia Pacific. While the fiscal 2010 consulting revenues reflected a decline, strong year-over-year growth in the fourth quarter partially offset revenue declines in the first three
quarters of fiscal 2010. The consulting revenue decline reflected some clients continuing to seek flexibility by shifting to a more phased approach to contracting work and focusing on managing the scope of existing projects. Outsourcing revenues
declined modestly in local currency, primarily due to a significant decline in Communications in Americas, partially offset by growth in Electronics   High Tech in Americas and Asia Pacific and Media   Entertainment in EMEA and
Americas. Client strategy changes, which began in fiscal 2009, particularly in Communications, resulted in a number of contract modifications, which had a negative impact on outsourcing revenues during fiscal 2010.      

Financial Services net revenues increased 1% in local currency. Year-over-year growth in the second half of fiscal 2010 more than offset revenue
declines in the first half of fiscal 2010. Consulting revenues increased in local currency, primarily driven by growth in Banking across all geographic regions and Capital Markets in EMEA and Asia Pacific, partially offset by declines in Insurance
in EMEA and Americas. Outsourcing revenues declined significantly in local currency, primarily due to declines in Banking in EMEA and Americas, partially offset by growth in Insurance in EMEA. Modest year-over-year outsourcing growth in the fourth
quarter partially offset revenue declines in the first three quarters of fiscal 2010. Client consolidations and strategy changes that resulted in contract terminations in fiscal 2009 had a negative impact on our outsourcing revenue in fiscal 2010.

Health   Public Service net revenues declined 4% in local currency. Consulting revenues declined in local currency, primarily due to a decline
in Public Service in Americas, principally due to the impact of inefficient delivery on a contract, and declines in Health in Americas and EMEA and Public Service in Asia Pacific. Outsourcing revenues increased modestly in local currency, primarily
driven by growth in Americas in Health and Public Service. In addition, the growing uncertainty and challenges in the public sector, particularly in the United States and the United Kingdom and several other countries in Europe, continue to have a
significant impact on demand in our public service business throughout the world. The uncertainty of the economic situation resulted in longer sales cycles and a shift to a more phased approach to contracting work, with a focus on near-term cost
savings rather than large transformational projects. These trends had a negative impact on our revenues and new contract bookings during fiscal 2010 and we expect this trend to continue.      

Products net revenues increased 1% in local currency. Year-over-year growth in the second half of fiscal 2010 more than offset revenue declines in the
first half of fiscal 2010. Consulting revenues declined modestly in local currency, primarily due to declines in EMEA and Americas across all industry groups except Consumer Goods   Services, which experienced significant growth in
Americas. Consulting revenues reflected the continuation of the more conservative spending patterns of our clients, which began in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. In addition, consulting revenues were negatively impacted by a significant
reduction in revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 at two large clients as a result of completing several large projects and transitioning from front-end consulting to outsourcing services. Outsourcing revenues increased in
     
         53   

Table of Contents  

local currency, primarily driven by growth across all geographic regions and across all industry groups except Retail in Americas and Asia Pacific.      

Resources net revenues decreased 2% in local currency. While the fiscal 2010 net revenues reflected a decline, year-over-year growth in the second half
of fiscal 2010 partially offset revenue declines in the first half of fiscal 2010. Consulting revenues declined modestly in local currency, primarily due to declines in EMEA across all industry groups and in Utilities in Americas and Asia Pacific,
partially offset by growth in Energy in Americas. Consulting revenues were impacted by our clients  continued caution in launching new programs as well as their focus on slowing the pace of existing projects. Outsourcing revenues increased
modestly in local currency, primarily driven by growth in Energy in Americas and Natural Resources in Asia Pacific, partially offset by declines in Utilities and Chemicals in Americas.      
    Geographic Regions         

Americas net revenues decreased 1% in local currency. While the fiscal 2010 net revenues reflected a decline, year-over-year growth in the second half
of fiscal 2010, particularly in the United States, partially offset revenue declines in the first half of fiscal 2010. We experienced declines in local currency across most countries in Americas, principally due to decreases in the United States and
Brazil.          

EMEA net revenues decreased 4% in local currency. While the fiscal 2010 net revenues reflected a decline, year-over-year growth in the fourth quarter
of fiscal 2010 partially offset revenue declines in the first three quarters of fiscal 2010. We experienced declines in local currency across many countries in EMEA, principally due to decreases in the Netherlands, Germany, Spain, Italy and France.
These declines were partially offset by growth in several countries, led by the United Kingdom.          

Asia Pacific net revenues increased 1% in local currency. Year-over-year growth in the second half of fiscal 2010 more than offset revenue declines in
the first half of fiscal 2010. Growth in local currency was principally driven by our business in Singapore and Malaysia, partially offset by declines in Australia and Japan.      
    Operating Expenses     
  Operating expenses for fiscal 2010 were $20,179 million, a decrease of $348 million, or 2%, from fiscal 2009, and decreased as a
percentage of revenues to 87.4% from 88.6% during this period. Operating expenses before reimbursable expenses for fiscal 2010 were $18,636 million, a decrease of $297 million, or 2%, from fiscal 2009, and decreased as a percentage of net revenues
to 86.5% from 87.7% during this period.        Cost of Services     
  Cost of services for fiscal 2010 was $15,843 million, a decrease of $487 million, or 3%, from fiscal 2009, and decreased as a percentage
of revenues to 68.6% from 70.5% during this period. Cost of services before reimbursable expenses for fiscal 2010 was $14,300 million, a decrease of $436 million, or 3%, from fiscal 2009, and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to 66.4% from
68.3% during this period. Gross margin for fiscal 2010 increased to 33.6% from 31.7% for fiscal 2009. The primary driver for the increase in gross margin for fiscal 2010 was a change related to the implementation of our sales-effectiveness model,
which directed a higher percentage of resource capacity to selling and other business-development activities and streamlined our approach to capturing time spent on business-development activities. See   Overview.    
         54   

Table of Contents  

         Sales and
Marketing        Sales and marketing expense for fiscal 2010 was $2,658 million, an increase of $499 million, or 23%, from
fiscal 2009, and increased as a percentage of net revenues to 12.3% from 10.0% during this period. The increase as a percentage of net revenues was primarily driven by a change related to the implementation of our sales-effectiveness model, which
directed a higher percentage of resource capacity to selling and other business-development activities and streamlined our approach to capturing time spent on business-development activities. See   Overview.    
    General and Administrative Costs        General and administrative costs for fiscal 2010 were $1,668 million, a decrease of $120 million, or 7%, from fiscal 2009, and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to 7.7% from 8.3% during this
period. The decrease as a percentage of net revenues was primarily due to the $72 million bad debt provision recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, as well as expense savings resulting from the global consolidation of office space in fiscal
2009.        Restructuring and Reorganization Costs, net     
  We recorded restructuring costs of $253 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. These costs included $111 million related to global
consolidation of our office space and $142 million related to realignment of our workforce, primarily at the senior-executive level, to reset our cost structure and better align our organization for the future.   
  We recorded net reorganization costs of $10 million for fiscal 2010, compared with net reorganization benefits of $3 million for
fiscal 2009. In fiscal 2001, we accrued reorganization liabilities in connection with our transition to a corporate structure. As of August 31, 2010, the remaining liability for reorganization costs was $272 million, of which
$262 million was classified as Other accrued liabilities because expirations of statutes of limitations or other final determinations could occur within 12 months. However, resolution of current tax audits, initiation of additional audits
or litigation may delay final settlements. Final settlement will result in a payment on a final settlement and/or recording a reorganization cost or benefit in our Consolidated Income Statement. For additional information, refer to Note 3
(Restructuring and Reorganization Costs, net) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.    
         55   

Table of Contents  

         Operating Income and Operating
Margin        Operating income for fiscal 2010 was $2,915 million, an increase of $271 million, or 10%, from fiscal 2009, and
increased as percentage of net revenues to 13.5% from 12.3% during this period. The restructuring costs of $253 million recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 reduced Operating margin by 110 basis points for fiscal 2009. Excluding the effects
of the restructuring costs in fiscal 2009, Operating income as a percentage of net revenues for fiscal 2010 increased 10 basis points compared with fiscal 2009. Operating income and operating margin for each of the operating groups were as follows:

(1)  
  On September 1, 2009, we formed the Health   Public Service operating group by combining various healthcare-related components of our Products operating
group with our Public Service operating group. Prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current-period presentation.          Operating Income and Operating Margin Excluding Restructuring Costs (Non-GAAP)         FY10 Operating Income as Reported (GAAP) compared to        FY09 Operating
Income Excluding Restructuring Costs (Non-GAAP)        

(1)  
  On September 1, 2009, we formed the Health   Public Service operating group by combining various healthcare-related components of our Products operating
group with our Public Service operating group. Prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current-period presentation.         

(2)  
  Represents restructuring costs related to reducing excess real estate capacity and to realign the workforce incurred during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009. We
have presented Operating income and operating margin excluding restructuring costs, because the restructuring costs meaningfully affect the comparability of our results of operations between periods. We believe that providing investors with this
information gives additional insights into our on-going results of operations.         

(3)  
  May not total due to rounding.     
  We estimate that the aggregate percentage impact of foreign currency exchange rates on our Operating income during fiscal 2010 was similar
to that disclosed for Net revenues. In fiscal 2009, each operating group recorded a portion of the $72 million bad debt provision recorded in the first quarter and   
         56   

Table of Contents  

the $253 million restructuring cost recorded in the fourth quarter. Additionally, in fiscal 2010, each operating group experienced expense savings resulting from the global consolation of office
space in fiscal 2009. See   General and Administrative Costs  and   Restructuring and Reorganization Costs, net.  The commentary below provides additional insight into operating group performance and operating margin
for fiscal 2010, compared with fiscal 2009, exclusive of foreign currency exchange rates, bad debt provision and restructuring cost impacts.       

Communications   High Tech operating income decreased, primarily due to revenue declines and higher selling costs as a percentage of net
revenues, offset by improved outsourcing contract profitability.          

Financial Services operating income increased, primarily driven by consulting revenue growth, improved utilization and outsourcing contract
profitability, partially offset by a decline related to lower outsourcing revenues.          

Health   Public Service operating income decreased, primarily due to inefficient delivery on a few consulting contracts, higher selling costs
as a percentage of net revenues and lower consulting contract profitability. In addition, fiscal 2009 results were favorably impacted by the resolution of a contract termination.      

Products operating income was flat, as an increase related to higher outsourcing revenues was offset by a decline related to lower consulting revenues,
lower consulting contract profitability and higher selling costs as a percentage of net revenues.          

Resources operating income increased, primarily driven by improved utilization, partially offset by a decline related to lower consulting revenues.
          Interest Income        Interest income was $30 million in fiscal 2010, a decrease of $20 million, or 40%, from fiscal 2009. The decrease was primarily due to lower interest rates.   
    Other Expense, net     
  Other expense, net was $16 million in fiscal 2010, an increase of $12 million from fiscal 2009. The change was driven by higher net
foreign currency exchange losses during fiscal 2010.        Provision for Income Taxes     
  The effective tax rates for fiscal 2010 and 2009 were 29.3% and 27.6%, respectively. The effective tax rate increased in fiscal 2010
primarily as a result of lower benefits related to adjustments to prior-year tax liabilities in fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009, partially offset by changes in the geographic distribution of income.   
    Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests        Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests eliminates the income earned or expense incurred attributable to the equity interest that some of our current and former senior executives and their
permitted transferees have in our Accenture SCA and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. subsidiaries. See  Business Organizational Structure.  The resulting Net income attributable to Accenture plc represents the income attributable to the
shareholders of Accenture plc. Since January 2002, noncontrolling interests has also included immaterial amounts primarily attributable to noncontrolling shareholders in our Avanade Inc. subsidiary.   
  Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was $280 million in fiscal 2010, a decrease of $68 million, or 20%, from fiscal 2009.
The decrease was due to a reduction in the Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares average noncontrolling ownership interest to 13% for fiscal 2010 from 17% for fiscal 2009.   
         57   

Table of Contents  

         Earnings Per Share
       Diluted earnings per share were $2.66 for fiscal 2010, compared with $2.44 for fiscal 2009. The $0.22 increase in
fiscal 2010 earnings per share compared with fiscal 2009 earnings per share was primarily due to the following: a $0.24 increase reflecting the impact of the restructuring charge recorded in the fourth quarter last year; a $0.07 increase from a
lower share count; and a $0.06 increase from favorable foreign exchange rates. These increase were partially offset by the following: a $0.04 decrease from lower revenue and operating income in local currency; a $0.01 decrease from lower
reorganization benefits; a $0.03 decrease from lower non-operating items; and a $0.07 decrease from a higher effective income tax rate. For information regarding our earnings per share calculations, see Note 2 (Earnings Per Share) to our
Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.        Results of Operations for
Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008       Net revenues (by operating group, geography and type of work) and reimbursements were
as follows:       
        n/m = not
meaningful       

(1)  
  On September 1, 2009, we formed the Health   Public Service operating group by combining various healthcare-related components of our Products operating
group with our Public Service operating group. Prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current-period presentation.         

(2)  
  May not total due to rounding.     
         58   

Table of Contents  

         Net Revenues     
  Since January 2009, our business was affected by the continuing global economic downturn. Many clients delayed new large consulting
commitments, slowed the pace of on-going projects and reduced requests for incremental projects. In addition, in response to clients seeking to reduce operating costs with requests for price concessions, where practicable, we shifted to lower-cost
resources at a reduced price level. As a result, most of our operating groups experienced either declines in or lower local currency growth in consulting revenues beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. Consulting revenues declined 12% in
local currency in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, compared with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, primarily due to declines in Communications   High Tech of 26%, Products of 23%, Financial Services of 12% and Resources of 5%, partially
offset by local currency growth in Health   Public Service of 11%. In addition, most of our operating groups experienced lower local currency growth in outsourcing revenues during fiscal 2009, compared with fiscal 2008. In the fourth
quarter, outsourcing revenue growth in local currency slowed to 1%, compared with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, as growth in Products of 8%, Resources of 5% and Health   Public Service of 5% was offset by declines in Financial Services
of 8% and Communications   High Tech of 2%.        Operating Groups     
  The following net revenues by operating group commentary discusses local currency revenues changes for fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal
2008:       

Communications   High Tech net revenues decreased 4% in local currency. Consulting revenues declined 11% in local currency, with growth in the
first quarter of fiscal 2009, more than offset by year-over-year contraction during the last three quarters. The aggregate local currency decline was due to declines across all industry groups in Americas and EMEA. These declines were partially
offset by consulting growth across all industry groups in Asia Pacific. Client strategy changes, particularly in Communications, have resulted in a number of contract modifications in fiscal 2009, which had a negative impact on consulting revenues
in fiscal 2009 and continued to have a negative impact in fiscal 2010. Outsourcing revenues increased 4% in local currency, primarily driven by growth across all industry groups in Asia Pacific and in Electronics   High Tech and
Media   Entertainment in EMEA, partially offset by a decline in Communications in EMEA.          

Financial Services net revenues decreased 6% in local currency. Consulting revenues declined 11% in local currency, primarily due to declines in
Banking in EMEA and, to a lesser extent, in Insurance and Capital Markets in Americas. These declines were partially offset by consulting growth in Banking in the Americas region and in Capital Markets in EMEA. Outsourcing revenues increased 2% in
local currency, primarily driven by growth in Banking in EMEA and in Insurance in Americas and Asia Pacific, partially offset by declines in Capital Markets in Americas and EMEA. Client strategy changes and consolidations in the financial services
industry resulted in a number of outsourcing contract terminations, which had a negative impact on our revenues, contributing to a decline in outsourcing revenues during the second half of fiscal 2009.      

Health   Public Service net revenues increased 8% in local currency. Consulting and outsourcing revenues increased 11% and 4% in local
currency, respectively. Growth was primarily in Americas and EMEA.          

Products net revenues decreased 1% in local currency. Consulting revenues declined by 8% in local currency, with growth in the first quarter of fiscal
2009, more than offset by year-over-year contraction during the last three quarters. The aggregate local currency decline was primarily due to declines in EMEA across all industry groups except Retail and in Americas across all industry
     
         59   

Table of Contents  

groups except Consumer Goods   Services. Outsourcing revenues increased 11% in local currency, primarily driven by growth in Consumer Goods   Services and
Transportation   Travel Services across all geographic regions.          

Resources net revenues increased 8% in local currency. Consulting revenues increased 7% in local currency, with strong growth in the first half of
fiscal 2009, partially offset by year-over-year contraction during the second half. The aggregate growth was led by Utilities in EMEA and Natural Resources in Asia Pacific, partially offset by a decline in Chemicals in the EMEA. Outsourcing revenues
increased 8% in local currency, primarily driven by growth in Utilities and Energy in EMEA and growth in Utilities in Americas.           Geographic Regions         

Americas net revenues were flat in local currency. We experienced growth in local currency in Brazil, driven by strong growth during the first three
quarters of fiscal 2009, which moderated to flat growth in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. This growth was offset by declines in the United States and Canada, where growth early in the year was more than offset by lower growth and/or declines
that began in the second quarter of fiscal 2009.          

EMEA net revenues decreased 2% in local currency. In general, growth moderated or declined across EMEA beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2009,
led by declines in local currency in the United Kingdom, Spain, Switzerland, Ireland and Sweden. In the Netherlands and Germany we experienced growth in local currency for the first three quarters of fiscal 2009, partially offset by a fourth quarter
decline in Germany and flat growth in the Netherlands.          

Asia Pacific net revenues increased 12% in local currency. Growth in local currency was principally driven by our business in Australia and Singapore.
In Japan we experienced growth in local currency for the first three quarters of fiscal 2009, partially offset by a fourth quarter decline.           Operating Expenses        Operating expenses for fiscal 2009 were $20,527
million, a decrease of $1,775 million, or 8%, from fiscal 2008, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 88.6% from 88.1% during this period. Operating expenses before reimbursable expenses for fiscal 2009 were $18,933 million, a decrease of
$1,442 million, or 7%, from fiscal 2008, and increased as a percentage of net revenues to 87.7% from 87.1% during this period.   
    Cost of Services        Cost of services for fiscal 2009 was $16,330 million, a decrease of $1,798 million, or 10%, from fiscal 2008, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 70.5% from 71.6% during this period. Cost of
services before reimbursable expenses for fiscal 2009 was $14,736 million, a decrease of $1,465 million, or 9%, from fiscal 2008, and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to 68.3% from 69.3% during this period. Gross margin for fiscal 2009 was
31.7%, an increase from 30.7% in fiscal 2008, driven primarily by improved overall outsourcing contract profitability.   
    Sales and Marketing        Sales and marketing expense for fiscal 2009 was $2,159 million, a decrease of $111 million, or 5%, from fiscal 2008, and increased as a percentage of net revenues to 10.0% from 9.7% over this period. The
increase as a percentage of net revenues was primarily due to an increase in selling costs as a percentage of net revenues.   
         60   

Table of Contents  

         General and
Administrative Costs        General and administrative costs for fiscal 2009 were $1,789 million, a decrease of $92 million,
or 5%, from fiscal 2008, and increased as a percentage of net revenues to 8.3% from 8.0% over this period. The increase as a percentage of net revenues was primarily due to the bad debt provision recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 of $72
million, or 0.3% of net revenues. This provision reflects our best estimate of collectibility risks on outstanding receivables, in light of global economic conditions, particularly from clients in high-risk industries or with potential liquidity
issues.        Restructuring and Reorganization Costs, net     
  We recorded restructuring costs of $253 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. These costs included $111 million related to global
consolidation of our office space and $142 million related to realignment of our workforce, primarily at the senior-executive level, to reset our cost structure and better align our organization for the future.   
  We recorded net reorganization benefits of $3 million for fiscal 2009, which included a $16 million reduction in reorganization
liabilities offset by $13 million of interest expense associated with carrying these liabilities. We recorded net reorganization costs of $23 million for fiscal 2008, related to interest expense associated with carrying the liabilities. In
fiscal 2001, we accrued reorganization liabilities in connection with our transition to a corporate structure. For additional information, refer to Note 3 (Restructuring and Reorganization Costs, net) to our Consolidated Financial Statements
under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.         Operating Income and Operating Margin     
  Operating income for fiscal 2009 was $2,644 million, a decrease of $368 million, or 12%, from fiscal 2008, and decreased as percentage of
net revenues to 12.3% from 12.9% during this period. The restructuring costs of $253 million recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 reduced Operating margin by 110 basis points for fiscal 2009. Excluding the effects of the restructuring
costs, Operating income as a percentage of net revenues for fiscal 2009 increased 50 basis points compared with fiscal 2008. Operating income and operating margin for each of the operating groups were as follows:   

(1)  
  On September 1, 2009, we formed the Health   Public Service operating group by combining various healthcare-related components of our Products operating
group with our Public Service operating group. Prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current-period presentation.         

(2)  
  May not total due to rounding.     
         61   

Table of Contents  

         Operating Income and Operating
Margin Excluding Restructuring Costs (Non-GAAP)         FY09 Operating Income Excluding Restructuring Costs (Non-GAAP)
compared to        FY08 Operating Income as Reported (GAAP)    

(1)  
  On September 1, 2009, we formed the Health   Public Service operating group by combining various healthcare-related components of our Products operating
group with our Public Service operating group. Prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current-period presentation.         

(2)  
  Represents restructuring costs related to reducing excess real estate capacity and to realign the workforce incurred during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009. We
have presented Operating income and operating margin excluding restructuring costs, because the restructuring costs meaningfully affect the comparability of our results of operations between periods. We believe that providing investors with this
information gives additional insights into our on-going results of operations.         

(3)  
  May not total due to rounding.     
  While we saw our net revenues contract, due to both the global economic downturn and significant foreign currency exchange rate
fluctuations, we improved our gross margins by focusing on contract profitability, particularly in our outsourcing business. This improvement was partially offset by higher selling costs as a percentage of net revenues. In addition, each operating
group recorded a portion of the $72 million bad debt provision recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 and a portion of the $253 million restructuring cost. See   General and Administrative Costs  and   Restructuring
and Reorganization Costs, net.  During fiscal 2009, we estimate that the aggregate percentage impact of foreign-exchange rates on our operating income is similar to that disclosed for net revenues. The operating group commentary below provides
additional insight into operating group performance and operating margin for fiscal 2009, compared to fiscal 2008, exclusive of foreign currency exchange rate, bad debt provision and restructuring impacts.   

Communications   High Tech operating income increased due to improved outsourcing and consulting contract margins, offset by consulting
revenue declines. In addition, fiscal 2008 reflected the impact of delivery inefficiencies on a small number of consulting contracts.          

Financial Services operating income decreased, primarily due to consulting revenue declines, a lower proportion of high-margin consulting work and
higher selling costs as a percentage of net revenues, partially offset by improved outsourcing contract margins.          

Products operating income decreased due to declines in consulting revenue and consulting contract margins, early-stage work at lower margins on a few
large contracts in the fourth quarter and higher selling costs as a percentage of net revenues, partially offset by improved outsourcing contract margins.      

Public Service operating income increased due to resolution of a contract termination and improved delivery efficiencies compared with fiscal 2008 and
consulting revenue growth.      
         62   

Table of Contents  

Resources operating income increased due to revenue growth and improved outsourcing contract margins, partially offset by higher selling costs as a
percentage of net revenues.           Interest Income     
  Interest income was $50 million in fiscal 2009, a decrease of $65 million, or 56%, from fiscal 2008. The decrease was primarily
due to lower interest rates.        Provision for Income Taxes     
  The effective tax rates for fiscal 2009 and 2008 were 27.6% and 29.3%, respectively. The effective tax rate decreased in 2009 primarily as
a result of lower expenses related to tax rate changes and other adjustments to prior-year tax liabilities required in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008.        Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests        Net income
attributable to noncontrolling interests eliminates the income earned or expense incurred attributable to the equity interest that some of our current and former senior executives and their permitted transferees have in our Accenture SCA and
Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. subsidiaries. See  Business Organizational Structure.  The resulting Net income of Accenture plc represents the income attributable to the shareholders of Accenture plc. Since January 2002,
noncontrolling interests has also included immaterial amounts primarily attributable to noncontrolling shareholders in our Avanade Inc. subsidiary.      Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was $348 million in fiscal 2009, a decrease of $157 million, or 31%, from fiscal 2008. The change was due to a $259 million decrease in Net
income and a reduction in the Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares average minority ownership interests to 17% for fiscal 2009 from 22% for fiscal 2008.   
    Earnings Per Share     
  Diluted earnings per share were $2.44 for fiscal 2009, compared with $2.65 for fiscal 2008. The $0.21 decrease in our earnings per share
was primarily the result of $253 million in pre-tax restructuring costs, which reduced earnings per share by $0.24. Absent the restructuring costs, earnings per share increased $0.03 compared with fiscal 2008, primarily due to the
following: Increases of $0.11 from growth in revenues and operating income in local currency, $0.11 from lower weighted average shares outstanding, and $0.06 from a lower effective tax rate. These increases were partially offset by decreases of
$0.20 from unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates, compared with fiscal 2008, and $0.05 from other items, including reorganization benefits and non-operating items. For information regarding our earnings per share calculations, see Note 2
(Earnings Per Share) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.    
    Liquidity and Capital Resources        Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, available cash reserves and debt capacity available under various credit facilities. In addition, we could raise additional funds through
public or private debt or equity financings. We may use our available or additional funds to:       

take advantage of opportunities, including more rapid expansion;      

acquire complementary businesses or technologies;          

develop new services and solutions; or          

facilitate purchases, redemptions and exchanges of Accenture shares.      
         63   

Table of Contents  

       As of August 31,
2010, cash and cash equivalents was $4,838 million, compared with $4,542 million as of August 31, 2009, an increase of $297 million. Cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in our Consolidated Cash
Flows Statements, are summarized in the following table:       

(1)  
  May not total due to rounding.     
    Operating activities:      The $69 million decrease in cash provided by operating activities was
primarily due to a net use of cash related to changes in operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by higher net income.        Investing activities:      The $29 million increase in cash used was primarily due to lower net proceeds from available-for-sale investments and increased spending on
business acquisitions, partially offset by lower spending on property and equipment.        Financing
activities:      The $579 million increase in cash used was primarily due to increases in cash dividends paid and net purchases of shares. For additional information, see Note 13 (Material Transactions Affecting
Shareholders  Equity) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.       We believe that our available cash balances and the cash flows expected to be generated from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our current and planned working capital and investment needs for the
next twelve months. We also believe that our longer-term working capital and other general corporate funding requirements will be satisfied through cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, from our borrowing facilities and future
financial market activities.        Borrowing Facilities        As of August 31, 2010, we had the following borrowing facilities, including the issuance of letters of credit, to support general working capital purposes:   

Facility Amount   

Borrowings Under Facilities   

(in millions of U.S. dollars)   

Syndicated loan facility(1)   
     
  $  
  1,200  

$  

Separate, uncommitted, unsecured multicurrency revolving credit facilities(2)   

369  

Local guaranteed and non-guaranteed lines of credit(3)   

147  

Total   
     
  $  
  1,716  

$  

(1)  
  This facility, which matures on July 31, 2012, provides unsecured, revolving borrowing capacity for general working capital purposes, including the issuance of
letters of credit. Financing is provided under this facility at the prime rate or at the London Interbank Offered Rate plus a spread. We continue to be in compliance with relevant covenant terms. As of August 31, 2010 and 2009, we had no
borrowings under the facility. The facility is subject to annual commitment fees.     
         64   

Table of Contents  

(2)  
  We maintain separate, uncommitted and unsecured multicurrency revolving credit facilities. These facilities provide local-currency financing for the majority of our
operations. Interest rate terms on the revolving facilities are at market rates prevailing in the relevant local markets. As of August 31, 2010 and 2009, we had no borrowings under these facilities. During fiscal 2010, we had no material
borrowings under the facilities. Based on the average annual balances, the weighted average interest rate on borrowings under these multicurrency credit facilities and lines of credit was approximately 4% in fiscal 2009.

(3)  
  We also maintain local guaranteed and non-guaranteed lines of credit for those locations that cannot access our global facilities. As of August 31, 2010 and 2009,
we had no borrowings under these various facilities.        Under the borrowing facilities described above, we had an
aggregate of $152 million and $172 million of letters of credit outstanding as of August 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In addition, we had total outstanding debt of $2 million and $1 million as of August 31, 2010 and 2009.
       Share Purchases and Redemptions        The Board of Directors of Accenture plc has authorized funding for our publicly announced open-market share purchase program for acquiring Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and for purchases and
redemptions of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares held by our current and former senior executives and their permitted transferees.   
  A summary of our share purchase activity during fiscal 2010 is as follows:   

(1)  
  We conduct a publicly announced, open-market share purchase program for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares. These shares are held as treasury shares by
Accenture plc and may be utilized to provide for select employee benefits, such as equity awards to our employees.         

(2)  
  During fiscal 2010, as authorized under our various employee equity share plans, we acquired Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares primarily via share withholding
for payroll tax obligations due from employees and former employees in connection with the delivery of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares under those plans.     

(3)  
  May not total due to rounding.     
  As of August 31, 2010, our aggregate available authorization was $2,920 million for our publicly announced open-market share purchase
program and the other share purchase programs.      We intend to continue to use a significant portion of cash generated from
operations for share repurchases during fiscal 2011. The number of shares ultimately repurchased under our open-market share purchase program may vary depending on numerous factors, including, without limitation, share price and other market
conditions, the company s ongoing capital allocation planning, the levels of cash and debt balances, other demands for cash, such as acquisition activity, general economic and/or business conditions, and board and management discretion.
Additionally, as these factors may change over the course of the year, the amount of share repurchase activity during any particular period cannot be predicted, and may fluctuate from time to time. Share repurchases may be made from time to time
through open-market purchases, in respect of redemptions of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares, through the use of Rule 10b5-1 plans and/or by other means. The repurchase program may be
accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time, without notice.   
         65   

Table of Contents  

         Other Share Redemptions
       During fiscal 2010, we issued 3,977,356 Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares upon redemptions of an equivalent
number of Accenture SCA Class I common shares pursuant to our registration statement on Form S-3 (the  registration statement ). The registration statement allows us, at our option, to issue freely tradable Accenture plc Class A
ordinary shares in lieu of cash upon redemptions of Accenture SCA Class I common shares held by our senior executives, former executives and their permitted transferees.       Subsequent Developments       On September 29, 2010, the Board of Directors
of Accenture plc declared a semi-annual cash dividend of $0.45 per share on our Class A ordinary shares payable to shareholders of record at the close of business on October 15, 2010. Accenture plc will cause Accenture SCA to declare a
semi-annual cash dividend of $0.45 per share on its Class I common shares payable to shareholders of record at the close of business on October 12, 2010. Both dividends are payable on November 15, 2010.   
   Obligations and Commitments       As of August 31, 2010, we had the following obligations and commitments to make future payments under contracts, contractual obligations and commercial commitments:   

(1)  
  The liability related to unrecognized tax benefits has been excluded from the contractual obligations table because a reasonable estimate of the timing and amount of
cash out flows from future tax settlements cannot be determined. For additional information, refer to Note 9 (Income Taxes) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

(2)  
  In fiscal 2001, we accrued reorganization liabilities in connection with our transition to a corporate structure. As of August 31, 2010, the remaining liability
for reorganization costs was $272 million, of which $262 million was classified as Other accrued liabilities because expirations of statutes of limitations or other final determinations could occur within 12 months. The reorganization
liabilities have been excluded from the contractual obligations table because a reasonable estimate of the timing and amount of cash out flows from future tax settlements cannot be determined. Timing of the resolution of tax audits or the initiation
of additional litigation and/or criminal tax proceedings may delay final resolution. Final settlement will result in a payment on a final settlement and/or recording a reorganization cost or benefit in our Consolidated Income Statement. For
additional information, refer to Note 3 (Restructuring and Reorganization Costs, net) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.      

(3)  
  Amounts represent projected payments under certain unfunded retirement plans for former pre-incorporation partners. Given these plans are unfunded, we pay these
benefits directly. These plans were eliminated for active partners after May 15, 2001.         

(4)  
  Other commitments include, among other things, information technology, software support and maintenance obligations, as well as other obligations in the ordinary course
of business that we cannot cancel or where we would be required to pay a termination fee in the event of cancellation. Amounts shown do not include recourse that we may have to recover termination fees or penalties from clients.
        Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements       In the normal course of business and in conjunction with some client engagements, we have entered into contractual arrangements through which we may be obligated to indemnify clients with respect to
certain matters. These arrangements with clients can include provisions whereby we have joint and several liability in relation to the performance of certain contractual obligations along with third parties also providing services and products for a
specific project. Indemnification provisions are also included in arrangements under which we agree to hold the indemnified party harmless with respect to third party claims related to such matters as title to assets sold or licensed or certain
intellectual property rights.   
         66   

Table of Contents  

       Typically, we have
contractual recourse against third parties for certain payments made by us in connection with arrangements where third party nonperformance has given rise to the client s claim. Payments by us under any of the arrangements described above are
generally conditioned on the client making a claim which may be disputed by us typically under dispute resolution procedures specified in the particular arrangement. The limitations of liability under these arrangements may be expressly limited or
may not be expressly specified in terms of time and/or amount.      For arrangements with unspecified limitations, we cannot
reasonably estimate the aggregate maximum potential liability, as it is inherently difficult to predict the maximum potential amount of such payments, due to the conditional nature and unique facts of each particular arrangement.   
  To date, we have not been required to make any significant payment under any of the arrangements described above. For further discussion
of these transactions, see Note 15 (Commitments and Contingencies) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data .       Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements       On September 1, 2009, we
adopted guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) on business combinations. The guidance establishes principles and requirements for: recognizing and measuring the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities
assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree; recognizing and measuring the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase; expensing acquisition-related costs as incurred; and determining what information
to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. The adoption of the guidance on business combinations did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial
Statements.      On September 1, 2009, we adopted guidance issued by the FASB on noncontrolling interests, which establishes
accounting and reporting standards requiring the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary, previously referred to as minority interest, to be presented as a separate component in the shareholders  equity section of the Consolidated Balance
Sheet. As required, the guidance on noncontrolling interests was applied prospectively with the exception of presentation and disclosure requirements, which were applied retrospectively for all periods presented.   
   New Accounting Pronouncements       In September 2009, the FASB issued amended revenue recognition guidance for arrangements with multiple deliverables. The new guidance eliminates the residual method of allocation in previous guidance
and requires that arrangement considerations be allocated at the inception of the arrangement to all deliverables using the relative selling price. The new guidance requires that a vendor use estimates of a selling price developed in a manner that
is consistent with that used to determine the price to sell the deliverable on a standalone basis for all deliverables that meet the remaining separation criteria when vendor-specific objective evidence and third-party evidence, respectively, do not
exist as estimates of selling price. This guidance is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. The adoption of this guidance did not have a
material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         67   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 7A.   
   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK         All of our market risk sensitive instruments were entered into for purposes other than trading.   
   Foreign Currency Risk    
  We are exposed to foreign currency risk in the ordinary course of business. We hedge material cash flow exposures when feasible using
forward contracts. These instruments are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and credit risk. Credit risk is managed through careful selection and ongoing evaluation of the financial institutions utilized as counterparties.
     Certain of these hedge positions are undesignated hedges of balance sheet exposures such as intercompany loans and typically
have maturities of less than one year. These hedges primarily U.S. dollar/Indian rupee, U.S. dollar/Swiss franc, U.S. dollar/Australian dollar, U.S. dollar/Norwegian Krone, U.S. dollar/Philippine peso, U.S. dollar/ Japanese yen, and U.S.
dollar/Danish Krone are intended to offset remeasurement of the underlying assets and liabilities. Changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recorded in Other expense, net in the Consolidated Income Statement. Additionally, we have
hedge positions that are designated cash flow hedges of certain intercompany charges relating to our Global Delivery Network. These hedges U.S. dollar/Indian rupee, U.S. dollar/Philippine peso and U.K. pound/Indian rupee, which typically have
maturities not exceeding three years are intended to partially offset the impact of foreign currency movements on future costs relating to resources supplied by Accenture s Global Delivery Network.   
  For designated cash flow hedges, gains and losses currently recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss will be reclassified into
earnings at the time when certain anticipated intercompany charges are accrued as Cost of Services. As of August 31, 2010, it is anticipated that $1 million of the net gains, net of tax currently recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive
Loss will be reclassified into Cost of Services within the next 12 months.      We use sensitivity analysis to determine the
effects that market foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may have on the fair value of our hedge portfolio. The sensitivity of the hedge portfolio is computed based on the market value of future cash flows as affected by changes in exchange
rates. This sensitivity analysis represents the hypothetical changes in value of the hedge position and does not reflect the offsetting gain or loss on the underlying exposure. A 10% change in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates against
the U.S. dollar (or other base currency of the hedge if not a U.S. dollar hedge) with all other variables held constant would have resulted in a change in the fair value of our hedge instruments of approximately $218 million and
$180 million as of August 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.       Interest Rate Risk    
  The interest rate risk associated with our borrowing and investing activities as of August 31, 2010 is not material in relation to
our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. While we may do so in the future, we have not used derivative financial instruments to alter the interest rate characteristics of our investment holdings or debt instruments.
      Equity Price Risk       The equity price risk associated with our marketable equity securities that are subject to market price volatility is not material in relation to our consolidated financial position, results of operations
or cash flows.   
         68   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 8.   
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA         See the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and financial statements commencing on page F-1.       

ITEM 9.   
   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE      
  None.       

ITEM 9A.   
   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES          (a)
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures       An evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the
participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act) as of the end
of the period covered by this report. Any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. Based on that evaluation, the principal executive officer
and the principal financial officer of Accenture plc have concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures are effective at the reasonable assurance level.   
   (b) Management s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting    
  Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that:      (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of our assets;      (ii) provide reasonable
assurance that the transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with the
authorization of management and/or our Board of Directors; and      (iii) provide reasonable assurance
regarding the prevention or timely detection of any unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements.      Due to its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to
the risk that controls may become inadequate due to changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting using the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control Integrated Framework. Based on its evaluation, our management concluded
that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   
         69   

Table of Contents  

       KPMG LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and, as part of their audit, has issued its attestation report, included herein, on the effectiveness
of our internal control over financial reporting. See  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  on page F-2.   
   (c) Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting       There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
our internal control over financial reporting.       

ITEM 9B.   
   OTHER INFORMATION         None.
  
         70   

Table of Contents  

        PART III

ITEM 10.   
   DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE         There have been no material changes to the procedures by which security holders may recommend nominees to our Board of Directors from those described in the Proxy Statement for our Annual General Meeting
of Shareholders filed with the SEC on December 21, 2009.      Information about our executive officers is contained in the
discussion entitled  Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Part I of this Form 10-K. The remaining information called for by Item 10 is included in the sections captioned  Board and Corporate Governance Matters Director
Biographies,   Board and Corporate Governance Matters Board Meetings and Committees,   Board and Corporate Governance Matters Audit Committee  and  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance 
included in the definitive proxy statement relating to the 2011 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of Accenture plc to be held on February 3, 2011 and is incorporated by reference. Accenture plc will file such definitive proxy statement
with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of the Company s 2010 fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K.       

ITEM 11.   
   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION      
  The information called for by Item 11 is included in the sections captioned  Compensation of Executive Officers and
Directors,   Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  and  Reports of the Committees of the Board Compensation Committee Report  included in the definitive proxy statement relating to the 2011 Annual
General Meeting of Shareholders of Accenture plc to be held on February 3, 2011 and is incorporated by reference. Accenture plc will file such definitive proxy statement with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of
the Company s 2010 fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K.       

ITEM 12.   
   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS      
   Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans       The following table sets forth, as of August 31, 2010, certain information related to our compensation plans under which Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares may be issued.   

71   

Table of Contents  

       The remaining
information called for by Item 12 is included in the sections captioned  Beneficial Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers  and  Beneficial Ownership of More Than Five Percent of Any Class of Voting Securities 
included in the definitive proxy statement relating to the 2011 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of Accenture plc to be held on February 3, 2011 and is incorporated by reference. Accenture plc will file such definitive proxy statement
with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of the Company s 2010 fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K.       

ITEM 13.   
   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE         The information called for by Item 13 is included in the sections captioned  Board and Corporate Governance Matters Director Independence  and  Board and Corporate Governance
Matters Certain Relationships and Related Person Transactions  included in the definitive proxy statement relating to the 2011 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of Accenture plc to be held on February 3, 2011 and is incorporated
by reference. Accenture plc will file such definitive proxy statement with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of the Company s 2010 fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K.   

ITEM 14.   
   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES         The information called for by Item 14 is included in the sections captioned  Independent Auditors  Fees  included in the definitive proxy statement relating to the 2011 Annual General
Meeting of Shareholders of Accenture plc to be held on February 3, 2011 and is incorporated by reference. Accenture plc will file such definitive proxy statement with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of the
Company s 2010 fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K.   
         72   

Table of Contents  

        PART IV

ITEM 15.   
   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES         (a) List of documents filed as part of this report:      1. Financial Statements as of
August 31, 2010 and August 31, 2009 and for the three years ended August 31, 2010 Included in Part II of this Form 10-K:      Consolidated Balance Sheets      Consolidated Income Statements
     Consolidated Shareholders  Equity and Comprehensive Income Statements   
  Consolidated Cash Flows Statements   
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      2. Financial Statement Schedules:      None   
  3. Exhibit Index:       
 
         73   

Table of Contents  

74   

Table of Contents  

(*)  
  Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.     
         75   

Table of Contents  

SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf on October 25, 2010 by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.        

A CCENTURE   PLC    

By:  
     
  /s/    W ILLIAM  D. G REEN    

Name: William D. Green  
  Title: Chief Executive Officer     
    POWER OF ATTORNEY       KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person
whose signature appears below hereby constitutes and appoints William D. Green, Pamela J. Craig and Julie Spellman Sweet, and each of them, as his or her true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with power to act with or without the others and
with full power of substitution and resubstitution, to do any and all acts and things and to execute any and all instruments which said attorneys and agents and each of them may deem necessary or desirable to enable the registrant to comply with the
U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any rules, regulations and requirements of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder in connection with the registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended August 31, 2010 (the  Annual Report ), including specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, power and authority to sign the name of the registrant and the name of the undersigned, individually and
in his or her capacity as a director or officer of the registrant, to the Annual Report as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, to any and all amendments thereto, and to any and all instruments or documents filed as part
thereof or in connection therewith; and each of the undersigned hereby ratifies and confirms all that said attorneys and agents and each of them shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.   
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below on October 25, 2010 by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated.       

Signature    
      
     Title     

/s/    W ILLIAM  D. G REEN   
   William D. Green    
      
    Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board and Director (principal executive officer)    

/s/    D INA  D UBLON   
   Dina Dublon    
      
    Director    

/s/    C HARLES  G IANCARLO   
   Charles Giancarlo    
      
    Director    

/s/    D ENNIS  F. H IGHTOWER   
   Dennis F. Hightower    
      
    Director     
         76   

Table of Contents  

Signature    
      
     Title     

/s/    N OBUYUKI  I DEI   
   Nobuyuki Idei    
      
    Director    

/s/    W ILLIAM  L. K IMSEY   
   William L. Kimsey    
      
    Director    

/s/    R OBERT  I. L IPP   
   Robert I. Lipp    
      
    Director    

/s/    M ARJORIE  M AGNER   
   Marjorie Magner    
      
    Director    

/s/    B LYTHE  J.
M C G ARVIE       Blythe J. McGarvie    
      
    Director    

/s/    S IR  M ARK 
M OODY -S TUART       Sir Mark Moody-Stuart    
      
    Director    

/s/    P IERRE  N ANTERME   
   Pierre Nanterme    
      
    Director    

/s/    W ULF   VON 
S CHIMMELMANN       Wulf von Schimmelmann    
      
    Director    

/s/    P AMELA  J. C RAIG   
   Pamela J. Craig    
      
    Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer)    

/s/    A NTHONY  G. C OUGHLAN   
   Anthony G. Coughlan    
      
    Chief Accounting Officer (principal accounting officer)     
         77   

Table of Contents  

        EXHIBIT INDEX

78   

Table of Contents  

79   

Table of Contents  

(*)  
  Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.     
         80   

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC        INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        

Page   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    

F-2  

Consolidated Financial Statements as of August 31, 2010 and 2009 and for the three years ended August 31,
2010:   

Consolidated Balance Sheets    

F-3  

Consolidated Income Statements    

F-4  

Consolidated Shareholders  Equity and Comprehensive Income Statements    

F-5  

Consolidated Cash Flows Statements    

F-7  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    

F-8  
        
         F-1

Table of Contents  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
   The Board of Directors and Stockholders    
   Accenture plc:       We have
audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets of Accenture plc and its subsidiaries as of August 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related Consolidated Statements of Income, Shareholders  Equity and Comprehensive Income, and Cash Flows for
each of the years in the three-year period ended August 31, 2010. We also have audited Accenture plc s internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2010, based on criteria established in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Accenture plc s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective
internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting (Item
9A(b)). Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.   
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made
by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Accenture plc and its subsidiaries as of August 31, 2010 and 2009, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years
in the three-year period ended August 31, 2010, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, Accenture plc maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
August 31, 2010, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.   
  The Company, as of September 1, 2007, changed its method of accounting for uncertain tax positions. The Company, as of
September 1, 2009, adopted guidance on noncontrolling interests.      /s/ KPMG LLP      Chicago, Illinois      October 25, 2010   
         F-2

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC        CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS        August 31, 2010 and 2009
       (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts)    
   
    The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         F-3

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC        CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS        For the Years Ended August 31, 2010,
2009 and 2008        (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts)    
   
    The accompanying Notes
are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         F-4

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC        CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME STATEMENTS    
   For the Years Ended August 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008        (In thousands of U.S. dollars and in thousands of share amounts)        
 
         F-5

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   For the Years Ended August 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008        (In thousands of U.S. dollars and in thousands of share amounts)          

    The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         F-6

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC        CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS        For the Years Ended August 31,
2010, 2009 and 2008        (In thousands of U.S. dollars)    
   
    The accompanying Notes
are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         F-7

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (In thousands of U.S.
dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)        1.    SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
POLICIES        Description of Business       Accenture plc is one of the world s leading management consulting, technology services and outsourcing organizations and operates globally with one common brand and business model designed to enable
it to provide clients around the world with the same high level of service. Drawing on a combination of industry expertise, functional capabilities, alliances, global resources and technology, Accenture plc delivers competitively priced, high-value
services that help clients measurably improve business performance. Accenture plc s global delivery model enables it to provide a complete end-to-end delivery capability by drawing on its global resources to deliver high-quality, cost-effective
solutions to clients under demanding timeframes.       Principles of Consolidation    
  The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Accenture plc, an Irish company, and its controlled subsidiary companies
(collectively, the  Company ). Accenture plc s only business is to hold Class I common shares in, and to act as the sole general partner of, its subsidiary, Accenture SCA, a Luxembourg partnership limited by shares. The Company
operates its business through Accenture SCA and subsidiaries of Accenture SCA. Accenture plc controls Accenture SCA s management and operations and consolidates Accenture SCA s results in its Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  The shares of Accenture SCA and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. held by persons other than the Company are treated as a noncontrolling
interest in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The noncontrolling interest percentages were 11% and 15% as of August 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Purchases and/or redemptions of Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture
Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares are accounted for at carryover basis.      All references to years, unless otherwise
noted, refer to the Company s fiscal year, which ends on August 31. For example, a reference to  fiscal 2010  means the 12-month period that ended on August 31, 2010. All references to quarters, unless otherwise noted, refer
to the quarters of the Company s fiscal year.       Reincorporation in Ireland    
  On June 10, 2009, Accenture plc was incorporated in Ireland, as a public limited company, in order to effect moving the place of
incorporation of the Company s parent holding company from Bermuda to Ireland (the  Transaction ). On August 5, 2009, the shareholders of Accenture Ltd, the Company s predecessor holding company, voted in favor of the
Transaction. The Transaction was subsequently completed on September 1, 2009, following approval from the Supreme Court of Bermuda, at which time Accenture Ltd became a wholly owned subsidiary of Accenture plc and Accenture plc became the
Company s parent holding company. In the Transaction, all of the outstanding Class A and Class X common shares of Accenture Ltd were cancelled and Accenture plc issued Class A and Class X ordinary shares on a one-for-one basis to the
holders of the cancelled Accenture Ltd Class A and Class X common shares, as applicable. As a result of the Transaction, Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares, which were redeemable for, at
the Company s election, cash or Accenture Ltd Class A common shares based on the market price of the Accenture Ltd Class A common shares at the time of the redemption, are now redeemable for, at the Company s election, cash or
Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares based on the market price of the Accenture plc Class A ordinary share at the time of redemption.   
         F-8

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
       On
September 1, 2009, also in connection with the Transaction, Accenture plc and Accenture Ltd entered into an Assumption and General Amendment Agreement pursuant to which Accenture Ltd assigned to Accenture plc, and Accenture plc assumed, the
Accenture Ltd 2001 Share Incentive Plan (the  2001 SIP ) and the Accenture Ltd 2001 Employee Share Purchase Plan (the  2001 ESPP ), including all award or grant documents or agreements thereunder. All awards or grants under the
equity incentive plans continue to be exercisable, issuable, held, available or vest upon the same terms and conditions as under the awards or grants prior to their assumption by Accenture plc, except that upon the exercise, issuance, holding,
availability or vesting of those awards or grants, Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares are now issuable or available, or benefits or other amounts determined, in lieu of Accenture Ltd Class A common shares. Accenture Ltd was dissolved on
December 29, 2009.       Use of Estimates       The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts
reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying disclosures. Although these estimates are based on management s best knowledge of current events and actions that the Company may undertake in the future, actual results may be
different from those estimates.       Reclassifications       Certain amounts reported in previous years have been reclassified to conform to the fiscal 2010 presentation. In addition, on September 1, 2009, the Company streamlined its approach to capturing time
spent on business-development activities. This resulted in a greater amount of payroll costs for the Company s client-services personnel being recorded in Sales and marketing rather than Cost of services. The Company has not reclassified fiscal
2009 or 2008 amounts to conform to the fiscal 2010 presentation, as it would be impractical to do so.       Revenue Recognition    
  Revenues from contracts for technology integration consulting services where the Company designs/redesigns, builds and implements new or
enhanced systems applications and related processes for its clients are recognized on the percentage-of-completion method, which involves calculating the percentage of services provided during the reporting period compared to the total estimated
services to be provided over the duration of the contract. Estimated revenues used in applying the percentage-of-completion method include estimated incentives for which achievement of defined goals is deemed probable. This method is followed where
reasonably dependable estimates of revenues and costs can be made. Estimates of total contract revenues and costs are continuously monitored during the term of the contract, and recorded revenues and costs are subject to revision as the contract
progresses. Such revisions may result in increases or decreases to revenues and income and are reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements in the periods in which they are first identified. If the Company s estimates indicate that a
contract loss will occur, a loss provision is recorded in the period in which the loss first becomes probable and reasonably estimable. Contract losses are determined to be the amount by which the estimated direct and indirect costs of the contract
exceed the estimated total revenues that will be generated by the contract and are included in Cost of services and classified in Other accrued liabilities.   
         F-9

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
       Revenues from
contracts for non-technology integration consulting services with fees based on time and materials or cost-plus are recognized as the services are performed and amounts are earned in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
 SEC ) Staff Accounting Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 101,   Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements   ( SAB 101 ), as amended by SAB No. 104,   Revenue Recognition 
 ( SAB 104 ). The Company considers amounts to be earned once evidence of an arrangement has been obtained, services are delivered, fees are fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. In such contracts, the
Company s efforts, measured by time incurred, typically represent the contractual milestones or output measure, which is the contractual earnings pattern. For non-technology integration consulting contracts with fixed fees, the Company
recognizes revenues as amounts become billable in accordance with contract terms, provided the billable amounts are not contingent, are consistent with the services delivered, and are earned. Contingent or incentive revenues relating to
non-technology integration consulting contracts are recognized when the contingency is satisfied and the Company concludes the amounts are earned.      Outsourcing contracts typically span several years and involve complex delivery, often through multiple workforces in different countries. In a number of these arrangements, the Company hires client
employees and becomes responsible for certain client obligations. Revenues are recognized on outsourcing contracts as amounts become billable in accordance with contract terms, unless the amounts are billed in advance of performance of services, in
which case revenues are recognized when the services are performed and amounts are earned in accordance with SAB 101, as amended by SAB 104. Revenues from time-and-materials or cost-plus contracts are recognized as the services are
performed. In such contracts, the Company s effort, measured by time incurred, represents the contractual milestones or output measure, which is the contractual earnings pattern. Revenues from unit-priced contracts are recognized as
transactions are processed based on objective measures of output. Revenues from fixed-price contracts are recognized on a straight-line basis, unless revenues are earned and obligations are fulfilled in a different pattern. Outsourcing contracts can
also include incentive payments for benefits delivered to clients. Revenues relating to such incentive payments are recorded when the contingency is satisfied and the Company concludes the amounts are earned.   
  Costs related to delivering outsourcing services are expensed as incurred with the exception of certain transition costs related to the
set-up of processes, personnel and systems, which are deferred during the transition period and expensed evenly over the period outsourcing services are provided. The deferred costs are specific internal costs or incremental external costs directly
related to transition or set-up activities necessary to enable the outsourced services. Generally, deferred amounts are protected in the event of early termination of the contract and are monitored regularly for impairment. Impairment losses are
recorded when projected undiscounted operating cash flows of the related contract are not sufficient to recover the carrying amount of contract assets. Deferred transition costs were $508,829 and $521,776 as of August 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively, and are included in Deferred contract costs. Amounts billable to the client for transition or set-up activities are deferred and recognized as revenue evenly over the period outsourcing services are provided. Deferred transition
revenues were $496,646 and $535,939 as of August 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and are included in non-current Deferred revenues relating to contract costs.      Revenues for contracts with multiple elements are allocated based on the lesser of the element s relative fair value or the amount that is not contingent on future delivery of another element. If the
amount of non-contingent revenues allocated to a delivered element accounted for under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting is less than the costs to deliver such services, then such
  
         F-10

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    

costs are deferred and recognized in future periods when the revenues become non-contingent. Fair value is determined based on the prices charged when each element is sold separately. Revenues
are recognized in accordance with the Company s accounting policies for the separate elements, as described above. Elements qualify for separation when the services have value on a stand-alone basis, fair value of the separate elements exists
and, in arrangements that include a general right of refund relative to the delivered element, performance of the undelivered element is considered probable and substantially in the Company s control. While determining fair value and
identifying separate elements require judgment, generally fair value and the separate elements are readily identifiable as the Company also sells those elements unaccompanied by other elements.   
  Revenues recognized in excess of billings are recorded as Unbilled services. Billings in excess of revenues recognized are recorded as
Deferred revenues until revenue recognition criteria are met.      Revenues before reimbursements ( net revenues )
include the margin earned on computer hardware and software, as well as revenues from alliance agreements. Reimbursements include billings for travel and other out-of-pocket expenses and third-party costs, such as the cost of hardware and software
resales. In addition, Reimbursements include allocations from gross billings to record an amount equivalent to reimbursable costs, where billings do not specifically identify reimbursable expenses. The Company reports revenues net of any
revenue-based taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue-producing transactions.   
   Employee Share-Based Compensation Arrangements       Share-based compensation expense is recognized over the requisite service period for awards of equity instruments to employees based on the grant date fair value of those awards expected to ultimately
vest. Forfeitures are estimated on the date of grant and revised if actual or expected forfeiture activity differs materially from original estimates.       Income Taxes       The Company calculates and provides for income taxes in each
of the tax jurisdictions in which it operates. Deferred tax assets and liabilities, measured using enacted tax rates, are recognized for the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax and financial statement bases of assets and
liabilities. A valuation allowance reduces the deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. The Company establishes liabilities or reduces assets for uncertain tax positions when the Company believes certain tax
positions are not more likely than not of being sustained if challenged. Each fiscal quarter, the Company evaluates these uncertain tax positions and adjusts the related tax assets and liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances.
      Translation of Non-U.S. Currency Amounts       Assets and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar are translated into U.S. dollars at fiscal year-end exchange rates. Revenue and expense
items are translated at average foreign currency exchange rates prevailing during the fiscal year. Translation adjustments are included in Accumulated other comprehensive loss. Gains and losses arising from intercompany foreign currency transactions
that are of a long-term investment nature are reported in the same manner as translation adjustments.   
         F-11

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
        Cash and Cash Equivalents
      Cash and cash equivalents consist of all cash balances and liquid investments with original maturities of three months or
less, including money market funds of $425,000 and $732,167 as of August 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As a result of certain subsidiaries  cash management systems, checks issued but not presented to the banks for payment may create
negative book cash payables. Such negative balances are classified as Short-term bank borrowings.       Client Receivables, Unbilled Services
and Allowances       The Company records its client receivables and unbilled services at their face amounts less allowances. On
a periodic basis, the Company evaluates its receivables and unbilled services and establishes allowances based on historical experience and other currently available information. As of August 31, 2010 and 2009, total allowances recorded for
client receivables and unbilled services were $104,753 and $101,517, respectively. The allowance reflects the Company s best estimate of collectibility risks on outstanding receivables and unbilled services, particularly from clients in
high-risk industries or with potential liquidity issues. In limited circumstances, the Company agrees to extend financing to certain clients. The terms vary by contract, but generally payment for services is contractually linked to the achievement
of specified performance milestones.       Concentrations of Credit Risk    
  The Company s financial instruments, consisting primarily of cash and cash equivalents, foreign currency exchange rate instruments,
client receivables and unbilled services, are exposed to concentrations of credit risk. The Company places its cash and cash equivalents and foreign exchange instruments with highly-rated financial institutions, limits the amount of credit exposure
with any one financial institution and conducts ongoing evaluation of the credit worthiness of the financial institutions with which it does business. Client receivables are dispersed across many different industries and countries; therefore,
concentrations of credit risk are limited.       Investments       All liquid investments with an original maturity greater than 90 days but less than one year are considered to be short-term investments. Investments with an original maturity greater than one year
are considered to be long-term investments. Marketable short-term and long-term investments are classified and accounted for as available-for-sale investments. Available-for-sale investments are reported at fair value with changes in unrealized
gains and losses recorded as a separate component of Accumulated other comprehensive income until realized. Quoted market prices are used to determine the fair values of common equity and debt securities that were issued by publicly traded entities.
Interest and amortization of premiums and discounts for debt securities are included in Interest income. Realized gains and losses on securities are determined based on the First In, First Out method and are included in (Loss) gain on investments,
net. The Company does not hold these investments for speculative or trading purposes.   
         F-12

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
        Property and Equipment
      Property and equipment is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. Depreciation of property and equipment is
computed on a straight-line basis over the following estimated useful lives:       

Buildings   
      
  20 to 25 years   
 
    Computers, related equipment and software   
      
  2 to 7 years   
 
    Furniture and fixtures   
      
  5 to 10 years   
 
    Leasehold improvements   
      
  Lesser of lease term or 15 years        Long-Lived Assets       Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. Recoverability of long-lived assets or groups of assets is assessed based on a comparison of the carrying amount to the
estimated future net cash flows. If estimated future undiscounted net cash flows are less than the carrying amount, the asset is considered impaired and expense is recorded at an amount required to reduce the carrying amount to fair value.
      Operating Expenses       Selected components of operating expenses were as follows:       

(1)  
  For additional information, see    Client Receivables, Unbilled Services and Allowances.      
  Subcontractor costs are included in Cost of services as they are incurred.       Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements       On September 1, 2009, the
Company adopted guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) on business combinations. The guidance establishes principles and requirements for: recognizing and measuring the identifiable assets acquired, the
liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree; recognizing and measuring the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase; expensing acquisition-related costs as incurred; and determining what
information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. The Company s adoption of the guidance on business combinations did not have a material impact on its
Consolidated Financial Statements.      On September 1, 2009, the Company adopted guidance issued by the FASB on
noncontrolling interests, which establishes accounting and reporting standards requiring the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary, previously referred to as minority interest, to be presented as a separate component in the shareholders 
equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheet. As required, the guidance on   
         F-13

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    

noncontrolling interests was applied prospectively with the exception of presentation and disclosure requirements, which were applied retrospectively for all periods presented.   
   Subsequent Events       The
Company has evaluated events and transactions subsequent to the balance sheet date. Based on this evaluation, the Company is not aware of any events or transactions (other than those disclosed elsewhere) that occurred subsequent to the balance sheet
date but prior to filing that would require recognition or disclosure in its Consolidated Financial Statements.   
   2.    EARNINGS PER SHARE       Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated as follows:       

(1)  
  Diluted earnings per share assumes the redemption of all Accenture SCA Class I common shares owned by holders of noncontrolling interests and the exchange of all
Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, on a one-for-one basis. The income effect does not take into account  Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests other,  since
those shares are not redeemable or exchangeable for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares.         

(2)  
  Fiscal 2008 and 2009 diluted weighted average Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and earnings per share amounts have been restated to reflect the impact of the
issuance of additional restricted share units to holders of restricted share units in connection with the payment of cash dividends.        For fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, 110,294 options, 193,143 options and 53,948 options, respectively, were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share because their exercise prices would
render them anti-dilutive.         
   F-14   

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    

3.    RESTRUCTURING AND REORGANIZATION COSTS, NET        Restructuring       The Company recognized restructuring costs of
$252,566 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. The restructuring costs included $110,338 principally related to global consolidation of office space and $142,228 related to realignment of the Company s workforce, primarily at the senior
executive level. The restructuring costs were allocated to the reportable operating segments as follows: $49,192 to Communications   High Tech; $53,155 to Financial Services; $45,818 to Health   Public Service; $58,091 to
Products; and $46,310 to Resources.      The Company s restructuring activity was as follows:   

(2)  
  Other represents changes in estimates, imputed interest and foreign currency translation.     
  The restructuring liabilities as of August 31, 2010 were $94,558, of which $28,574 was included in Other accrued liabilities and
$65,984 was included in Other non-current liabilities. The remaining liabilities represent the net present value of estimated obligations for operating leases on abandoned office space.       Reorganization       In fiscal 2001, the Company accrued reorganization
liabilities in connection with its transition to a corporate structure. These liabilities included certain non-income tax liabilities, such as stamp taxes, as well as liabilities for certain individual income tax exposures related to the transfer of
interests in certain entities to the Company as part of the reorganization. These primarily represent unusual and disproportionate individual income tax exposures assumed by certain, but not all, of the Company s shareholders and partners in
certain tax jurisdictions specifically related to the transfer of their partnership interests in certain entities to the Company as part of the reorganization. (Prior to fiscal 2005, the Company referred to its highest-level employees with the
 partner  title and the Company continues to use the term  partner  to refer to these persons in certain situations related to its reorganization and the period prior to its incorporation.) The Company identified certain
shareholders and partners who may incur such unusual and disproportionate financial damage in certain jurisdictions. These include shareholders and partners who were subject to tax in their jurisdiction on items of income arising from the
reorganization transaction that were not taxable for most other shareholders and partners. In addition,   
         F-15

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    

certain other shareholders and partners were subject to a different rate or amount of tax than other shareholders or partners in the same jurisdiction. When additional taxes are assessed on these
shareholders or partners in connection with these transfers, the Company has made and intends to make payments, and in one country has contractually committed, to reimburse certain costs associated with the assessment either to the shareholder or
partner, or to the taxing authority. The Company has recorded reorganization expense and the related liability where such liabilities are probable. Interest accruals are made to cover reimbursement of interest on such tax assessments.   
  The Company s reorganization activity was as follows:   

(1)  
  Includes final agreements with tax authorities and expirations of statutes of limitations.     
  As of August 31, 2010, reorganization liabilities of $261,972 were included in Other accrued liabilities because expirations of
statutes of limitations or other final determinations could occur within 12 months, and reorganization liabilities of $9,935 were included in Other non-current liabilities. Timing of the resolution of tax audits or the initiation of additional
litigation and/or criminal tax proceedings may delay final resolution. Final resolution, through settlement, conclusion of legal proceedings or a tax authority s decision not to pursue a claim, will result in payment by the Company of amounts
in settlement or judgment of these matters and/or recording of a reorganization benefit or cost in the Company s Consolidated Income Statement. It is possible the aggregate amount of such payments in connection with resolution of all such
proceedings could exceed the currently recorded amounts. As of August 31, 2010, only a small number of jurisdictions remain that have active audits/investigations or open statutes of limitations, and only one is significant. In that
jurisdiction, current and former partners, and the Company, are engaged in disputes with tax authorities in connection with the corporate reorganization in 2001, some of which have resulted, and other of which are expected to result, in litigation.
These individuals and the Company intend to vigorously defend their positions.         
   F-16   

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
    4.    ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS    
  The components of Accumulated other comprehensive loss are as follows:   
   
    The activity related to the net change in net unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges, net of tax, is
as follows:       
     5.    PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT    
  The components of Property and equipment, net are as follows:   
   
     6.    BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND GOODWILL    
  During fiscal 2008, the Company completed twelve individually immaterial acquisitions of businesses providing various technology
consulting, advisory and outsourcing services, for total         
   F-17   

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    

consideration of $304,431. In addition, the Company may be required to make payments totaling up to approximately $70,000 over a four-year period that began on September 1, 2008, conditional
on achieving certain performance measures or periods of service. In connection with these acquisitions, the Company recorded combined goodwill of $212,075, a portion of which was allocated to each of the reportable segments. The Company also
recorded $72,005 in intangible assets, primarily related to customer relationships and intellectual property. The intangible assets are being amortized over a period of less than one year to fifteen years. The pro forma effects on the Company s
operations were not material.      During fiscal 2009, the Company recorded adjustments related to purchase accounting for previous
acquisitions. During fiscal 2010, the Company completed several individually immaterial acquisitions.      The Company
performed impairment tests of goodwill for the three years ended August 31, 2010 and determined that goodwill was not impaired. The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by reportable segment are as follows.   

(1)  
  On September 1, 2009, the Company formed the Health   Public Service operating group by combining various healthcare-related components of its Products
operating group with its Public Service operating group. Prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current-period presentation.         

(2)  
  Additions/Adjustments primarily relate to immaterial acquisitions made during fiscal 2010.         7.    DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS       In the normal
course of business, the Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk. Derivative transactions are governed by a uniform set of policies and procedures covering areas such as authorization, counterparty
exposure and hedging practices. Positions are monitored using techniques such as market value and sensitivity analyses. The Company does not enter into derivative transactions for trading purposes.   
  Certain derivatives also give rise to credit risks from the possible non-performance by counterparties. Credit risk is generally limited
to the fair value of those contracts that are favorable to the Company, and the maximum amount of loss due to credit risk, based on the gross fair value of all of the Company s derivative financial instruments, was approximately $29,190 as of
August 31, 2010. The Company has limited its credit risk by entering into derivative transactions only with highly-rated global financial institutions, limiting the amount of credit exposure with any one financial institution and conducting
ongoing evaluation of the creditworthiness of the financial institutions with which it does business.   
         F-18

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
       The Company also
utilizes standard counterparty master agreements containing provisions for the netting of certain foreign currency transaction obligations and for set-off of certain obligations in the event of an insolvency of one of the parties to the transaction.
These provisions may reduce the Company s potential overall loss resulting from the insolvency of a counterparty and reduce a counterparty s potential overall loss resulting from the insolvency of the Company. Additionally, these
agreements contain early termination provisions triggered by adverse changes in a counterparty s credit rating, thereby enabling the Company to accelerate settlement of a transaction prior to its contractual maturity and potentially decrease
the Company s realized loss on an open transaction. Similarly, a decrement in the Company s credit rating could trigger a counterparty s early termination rights, thereby enabling a counterparty to accelerate settlement of a
transaction prior to its contractual maturity and potentially increase the Company s realized loss on an open transaction. The aggregate fair value of the Company s derivative instruments with credit-risk-related contingent features that
are in a liability position as of August 31, 2010 was $22,870.      The Company s derivative financial instruments
consist of deliverable and non-deliverable foreign currency forward contracts. Fair values for derivative financial instruments are based on prices computed using third-party valuation models and are classified as Level 2 in accordance with the
three-level hierarchy of fair value measurements. All of the significant inputs to the third-party valuation models are observable in active markets. Inputs include current market-based parameters such as forward rates, yield curves and credit
default swap pricing. For additional information related the three-level hierarchy of fair value measurements, see Note 10 (Retirement and Profit Sharing Plans) to these Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  The Company classifies cash flows from its derivative programs as cash flows from operating activities in the Consolidated Cash Flows
Statement. The notional and fair values of all derivative instruments were as follows:       
     Cash Flow Hedges    
  Certain of the Company s subsidiaries are exposed to currency risk through their use of resources supplied by the Company s
Global Delivery Network. To mitigate this risk, the Company uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the foreign exchange risk of the forecasted intercompany expenses denominated in foreign currencies for up to three years in the future. The
Company has designated these derivatives as cash flow hedges. As of August 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company held no derivatives that were designated as fair value or net investment hedges.   
  In order for a derivative to qualify for hedge accounting, the derivative must be formally designated as a fair value, cash flow or net
investment hedge by documenting the relationship between the derivative and the hedged item. The documentation includes a description of the hedging instrument, the hedge item, the risk being hedged, the Company s risk management objective and
strategy for undertaking the   
         F-19

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    

hedge, the method for assessing the effectiveness of the hedge and the method for measuring hedge ineffectiveness. Additionally, the hedge relationship must be expected to be highly effective at
offsetting changes in either the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item at both inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis. The Company assesses the ongoing effectiveness of its hedges using the Hypothetical Derivative Method, which
measures hedge ineffectiveness based on a comparison of the change in fair value of the actual derivative designated as the hedging instrument and the change in fair value of a hypothetical derivative. The hypothetical derivative would have
terms that identically match the critical terms of the hedged item. The Company measures and records hedge ineffectiveness at the end of each fiscal quarter.      For a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the change in estimated fair value of a hedging instrument is recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of Shareholders 
Equity and is reclassified into Cost of services in the Consolidated Income Statement during the period in which the hedged transaction is recognized. Amounts reclassified into Cost of services for fiscal 2010 were $9,959 net of taxes. The
ineffective portion of the change in fair value of a cash flow hedge is recognized immediately in Other expense, net in the Consolidated Income Statement and for fiscal 2010 and 2009 was not material. As of August 31, 2010, amounts related to
derivatives designated as cash flow hedges and recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss were net gains of $4,340 net of taxes, of which $591 is expected to be reclassified into earnings in the next 12 months. In addition, the Company did not
discontinue any cash flow hedges during fiscal 2010 or 2009.      The fair values of derivative instruments designated as cash flow
hedges are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as follows:       
     Other Derivatives       The Company also uses foreign currency forward contracts, which have not been designated as hedges, to hedge balance sheet exposures, such as intercompany loans. These instruments are generally short-term
in nature, with typical maturities of less than one year, and are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Realized gains or losses and changes in the estimated fair value of these derivatives were a net gain of $29,574 and $32,244 for
fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. These net gains were offset by net foreign currency losses, including net losses related to the underlying balance sheet exposures, and are recorded in Other expense, net in the Consolidated Income Statement.
  
         F-20

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
   The fair values of other derivative instruments are recorded in the Consolidated Balance
Sheet as follows:       
    For additional
information related to derivative financial instruments, see Note 4 (Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss) to these Consolidated Financial Statements.       8.    BORROWINGS AND INDEBTEDNESS       As of
August 31, 2010, the Company had the following borrowing facilities:       

(1)  
  This facility, which matures on July 31, 2012, provides unsecured, revolving borrowing capacity for general working capital purposes, including the issuance of
letters of credit. Financing is provided under this facility at the prime rate or at the London Interbank Offered Rate plus a spread. The Company continues to be in compliance with relevant covenant terms. As of August 31, 2010 and 2009, the
Company had no borrowings under the facility. The facility is subject to annual commitment fees.         

(2)  
  The Company maintains separate, uncommitted and unsecured multicurrency revolving credit facilities. These facilities provide local currency financing for the majority
of the Company s operations. Interest rate terms on the revolving facilities are at market rates prevailing in the relevant local markets. As of August 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company had no borrowings under these facilities. During fiscal
2010, the Company had no material borrowings under the facilities. Based on the average annual balances, the weighted average interest rate on borrowings under these multicurrency credit facilities and lines of credit was approximately 4% in
fiscal 2009.         

(3)  
  The Company also maintains local guaranteed and non-guaranteed lines of credit for those locations that cannot access the Company s global facilities. As of
August 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company had no borrowings under these various facilities.        Under the borrowing
facilities described above, the Company had an aggregate of $152,117 and $172,388 of letters of credit outstanding as of August 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company also had total outstanding debt of $1,588 and $995 as of
August 31, 2010 and 2009.         
   F-21   

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
    9.    INCOME TAXES    
   
    Deferred income tax expense (benefit) recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss in the Consolidated
Balance Sheets related to the defined benefit plans liability before noncontrolling interests was ($105,238) and ($83,263) in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively, and related to the cash flow hedges before noncontrolling interests was $11,411 and
($12,921) in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively.      The components of Income before income taxes were as follows:   
   
    The reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory income
tax rate to the Company s effective income tax rate was as follows:       

(1)  
  Final determinations include final agreements with tax authorities and expirations of statutes of limitations.     
  The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of enacted changes in tax laws and tax rates did not have a material impact on the
Company s effective tax rate.         
   F-22   

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
   The components of the Company s deferred tax assets and liabilities included the
following:       
    The Company recorded valuation allowances of $233,260 and $146,920 as of August 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively, against deferred tax assets principally associated with certain tax net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, as the Company believes it is more likely than not that these assets will not be realized. For all other deferred tax
assets, the Company believes it is more likely than not that the results of future operations will generate sufficient taxable income to realize these deferred tax assets. During fiscal 2010, the Company recorded a net increase of $86,340 in the
valuation allowance. The majority of this change relates to valuation allowances on tax credits, as the Company believes it is more likely than not that these assets will not be realized.  
  The Company had net operating loss carryforwards as of August 31, 2010 of $632,159. Of this amount, $101,570 expires between 2011 and
2016, $51,866 expires between 2017 and 2030, and $478,723 has an indefinite carryforward period. The Company had tax credit carryforwards as of August 31, 2010 of $149,905, of which $40,925 will expire between 2011 and 2016, $17,026 will expire
between 2017 and 2030, and $91,954 has an indefinite carryforward period.      As of August 31, 2010, the Company had
$1,254,468 of unrecognized tax benefits, of which $703,967, if recognized, would favorably affect the Company s effective tax rate. As of August 31, 2009, the Company had $1,053,426 of unrecognized tax benefits, of which $589,497, if
recognized, would favorably affect the Company s effective tax rate. The differences of $550,501 and $463,929,   
     
   F-23   

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    

respectively, represent items recorded as adjustments to equity and offsetting tax benefits associated with the correlative effects of potential transfer pricing adjustments, state income taxes
and timing adjustments. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:       
    For the year ended August 31, 2010, substantially all of the additions for tax positions related to prior
years are for items that had no net impact to the consolidated financial statements.      The Company recognizes interest and
penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in the Provision for income taxes. During fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008, the Company recognized approximately $42,489, $47,498, and $59,419 in interest and penalties, respectively. The Company had accrued
interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits of $222,499 ($153,719, net of tax benefits) and $190,024 ($131,884, net of tax benefits) on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of August 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
     The Company is currently under audit by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service for fiscal 2003 to 2007. The Company is also
currently under audit in numerous state and non-U.S. tax jurisdictions. Although the outcome of tax audits is always uncertain and could result in significant cash tax payments, the Company does not believe the outcome of these audits will have a
material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial position or results of operations. With limited exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to income tax audits by taxing authorities for the years before 2003. The Company
believes that it is reasonably possible that its unrecognized tax benefits could decrease by approximately $474,000 or increase by approximately $62,000 in the next 12 months as a result of settlements, lapses of statutes of limitations and other
adjustments. The majority of these amounts relate to transfer pricing matters in both U.S. and non-U.S. tax jurisdictions.      As
of August 31, 2010, the Company had not recognized a deferred tax liability on $1,567,405 of undistributed earnings for certain foreign subsidiaries, because these earnings are intended to be permanently reinvested. If such earnings were
distributed, some countries may impose withholding taxes. It is not practicable to determine the amount of the related unrecognized deferred income tax liability.      Portions of the Company s operations are subject to reduced tax rates or are free of tax under various tax holidays which expire between fiscal 2011 and 2015. Some of the holidays are renewable at
reduced levels, with renewal periods through 2025. The income tax benefits attributable to the tax status of these subsidiaries were estimated to be approximately $71,000, $78,000 and $71,000 in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   
         F-24

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    

10.    RETIREMENT AND PROFIT SHARING PLANS        Defined Benefit Pension       In the United States and certain other countries,
the Company maintains and administers defined benefit retirement plans for certain current, retired and resigned employees. In addition, the Company s U.S. defined benefit pension plans include a frozen plan for former pre-incorporation
partners, which is unfunded. Benefits under the employee retirement plans are primarily based on years of service and compensation during the years immediately preceding retirement or termination of participation in the plan.   
  Certain postemployment benefits, including severance benefits, disability-related benefits and continuation of benefits, such as
healthcare benefits and life insurance coverage, are provided to former or inactive employees after employment but before retirement. These costs are substantially provided for on an accrual basis.   
   Assumptions       The Company
uses an August 31 measurement date for its U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans. The weighted-average assumptions used to determine the fiscal year-end defined benefit pension obligations are as follows:   
   
    The Company s
methodology for selecting the discount rate for the U.S. Plans is to match the plans  cash flows to that of the average of two yield curves that provide the equivalent yields on zero-coupon corporate bonds for each maturity. The discount
rate assumption for the non-U.S. Plans primarily reflects the market rate for high-quality, fixed-income debt instruments. The discount rate assumptions are based on the expected duration of the benefit payments for each of the Company s
defined benefit pension plans as of the annual measurement date and is subject to change each year. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets should, over time, approximate the actual long-term returns on defined benefit pension plan
assets and is based on historical returns and the future expectations for returns for each asset class, as well as the target asset allocation of the asset portfolio.       Pension Expense       Pension expense for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 was
$76,425, $64,400 and $59,355 respectively.   
         F-25

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
    Benefit Obligation, Plan Assets and Funded Status    
  The changes in the defined benefit pension obligations, plan assets and funded status of material defined benefit pension plans for fiscal
2010 and 2009 were as follows:       
       
   F-26   

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
        Accumulated Other Comprehensive
Loss       The pre-tax accumulated net actuarial loss and prior service cost (credit) recognized in Accumulated other
comprehensive loss as of August 31, 2010 was as follows:       
    The estimated amounts that will be amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive loss as of August 31,
2010 into net periodic pension expense during fiscal 2011 are as follows:       
     Funded Status for Defined Benefit Plans       The accumulated benefit obligation for material defined benefit pension plans as of August 31, 2010 and 2009 was as follows:   
   
    The following
information is provided for material defined benefit pension plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets and for plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets as of August 31, 2010 and 2009:

F-27

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
        Investment Strategies
        U.S. Pension Plans        The overall investment objective of the plans is to provide growth in the defined benefit pension plans  assets to help fund future defined benefit pension obligations while managing risk in order to
meet current defined benefit pension obligations. The plans  future prospects, their current financial conditions, the Company s current funding levels and other relevant factors suggest that the plans can tolerate some interim
fluctuations in market value and rates of return in order to achieve long-term objectives without undue risk to the plans  ability to meet their current benefit obligations. The Company recognizes that asset allocation of the defined benefit
pension plans  assets is an important factor in determining long-term performance. Actual asset allocations at any point in time may vary from the target asset allocations and will be dictated by current and anticipated market conditions,
required cash flows and investment decisions of the investment committee and the pension plans  investment funds and managers. Ranges are established to provide flexibility for the asset allocation to vary around the targets without the need
for immediate rebalancing.        Non-U.S. Pension Plans        Plan assets in non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans conform to the investment policies and procedures of each plan and to relevant legislation. The pension committee or trustee of each plan
regularly, but at least annually, reviews the investment policy and the performance of the investment managers. In certain countries, the trustee is also required to consult with the Company. Asset allocation decisions are made to provide risk
adjusted returns that align with the overall investment strategy for each plan. Generally, the investment return objective of each plan is to achieve a total annualized rate of return that exceeds inflation over the long term by an amount based on
the target asset allocation mix of that plan. In certain countries, plan assets are invested in funds that are required to hold a majority of assets in bonds, with a smaller proportion in equities. Also, certain plan assets are entirely invested in
contracts held with the plan insurer, which determines the strategy. Defined benefit pension plans in certain countries are unfunded.   
    Risk Management     
  Plan investments are exposed to certain risks including market, interest rate and operating risk. In order to mitigate significant
concentrations of these risks, the assets are invested in a diversified portfolio primarily consisting of equities and fixed income instruments. Equities are diversified between U.S. and non-U.S. index funds and are intended to achieve long term
capital appreciation. To minimize asset volatility relative to the liabilities, a portion of plan assets are allocated to debt securities which appropriately match the duration of individual plan s liabilities. Plan asset allocation and
investment managers  guidelines are reviewed on a regular basis.   
         F-28

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
        Plan Assets    
  The following table shows the Company s target allocation for fiscal 2011 and weighted-average plan assets allocations as of
August 31, 2010 and 2009 by asset category, for material defined benefit pension plans:       
      Fair Value Measurements        Fair value is the price that would be received upon sale of an asset or paid upon transfer of a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date and in the principal
or most advantageous market for that asset or liability. The fair value should be calculated based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, not on assumptions specific to the entity. In addition, the fair
value of liabilities should include consideration of non-performance risk, including the Company s own credit risk.      The
three-level hierarchy of fair value measurements is based on whether the inputs to those measurements are observable or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect the
Company s market assumptions. The fair-value hierarchy requires the use of observable market data when available and consists of the following levels:       

Level 1 Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets;      

Level 2 Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not
active; and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs are observable in active markets; and          

Level 3 Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs are unobservable.      
         F-29

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
       The fair values of
the material U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans assets as of August 31, 2010 are as follows:        U.S.
Plans         
      Non-U.S. Plans     
   
     Expected Contributions       Generally, annual contributions are made at such times and in amounts as required by law and may, from time to time, exceed minimum funding requirements. The Company estimates it will pay approximately
$57,000 in fiscal 2011 related to contributions to its U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, cash funding for its retiree medical plans and benefit payments related to the unfunded frozen plan for former pre-incorporation partners.
The Company has not determined whether it will make additional voluntary contributions for its defined benefit pension plans.   
         F-30

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
        Estimated Future Benefit
Payments       Benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid as follows:
      
     Defined Contribution Plans
      In the United States and certain other countries, the Company maintains and administers defined contribution plans for
certain current, retired and resigned employees. Defined contribution plans in countries other than the United States and the United Kingdom are individually immaterial. Total expenses recorded for the United States and the United Kingdom defined
contribution plans were $223,793, $232,661 and $213,867 in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   
   11.    SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION        Share Incentive Plans       On February 4, 2010, Accenture s
shareholders approved the Accenture plc 2010 Share Incentive Plan (the  2010 SIP ), which the Board of Directors of Accenture approved on December 10, 2009. Any new equity grants awarded on or after February 4, 2010 were
under the 2010 SIP. No new awards were granted on or after February 4, 2010 under the 2001 SIP, and any share capacity remaining under the 2001 SIP was cancelled and not incorporated into the 2010 SIP. However, shares related to outstanding
awards granted under the 2001 SIP prior to February 4, 2010 continue to be satisfied from shares issued under the 2001 SIP.   
  The 2010 SIP is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Accenture and provides for the grant of
nonqualified share options, incentive stock options, restricted share units and other share-based awards. A maximum of 50,000,000 Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares are currently authorized for awards under the 2010 SIP. As of
August 31, 2010, 48,943,108 shares were available for future grants under the 2010 SIP. Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares covered by awards that terminate, lapse or are cancelled may again be used to satisfy awards under the 2010 SIP.
The Company issues new Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and shares from treasury for shares delivered under the 2010 SIP.   
         F-31

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
       A summary of
information with respect to share-based compensation is as follows:       
      Restricted Share Units
       Under the 2010 SIP and previously under the 2001 SIP, participants may be granted restricted share units, each of
which represents an unfunded, unsecured right, which is nontransferable except in the event of death of the participant, to receive an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share on the date specified in the participant s award agreement. The
restricted share units granted under this plan are subject to cliff or graded vesting, generally ranging from 2 to 10 years. For awards with graded vesting, compensation expense is recognized over the vesting term of each separately vesting
portion. Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis for awards with cliff vesting. Restricted share unit activity during fiscal 2010 was as follows:       
    As of August 31, 2010, there was $428,916 of total restricted share unit compensation expense related to
nonvested awards not yet recognized, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.4 years. As of August 31, 2010, there were 3,700,441 restricted share units vested but not yet delivered as Accenture plc
Class A ordinary shares.   
         F-32

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
         Stock Options
       Stock options are granted to senior executives and other employees under the 2010 SIP and previously under the 2001
SIP. Options generally have an exercise price that is at least equal to the fair value of the Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares on the date the option is granted. Options granted under the 2010 SIP and previously under the 2001 SIP are
subject to cliff or graded vesting, generally ranging from 2 to 10 years, and generally have a contractual term of 10 years. For awards with graded vesting, compensation expense is recognized over the vesting period of each separately
vesting portion. Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis for awards with cliff vesting. The fair value of each options grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model. Stock option
activity for fiscal 2010 was as follows:       
    Other information
pertaining to option activity is as follows:       
    Cash received from the
exercise of stock options was $149,240 and the income tax benefit realized from the exercise of stock options was $49,592 for fiscal 2010. As of August 31, 2010, there was $916 of total stock option compensation expense related to nonvested
awards not yet recognized, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.4 years.       Voluntary Equity
Investment Program       In January 2006, the Company implemented a Voluntary Equity Investment Program (the  VEIP ),
under which senior executives may purchase Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares each month at fair market value through after-tax payroll deductions. Senior executives who make the annual election to participate in the program will be granted
at the end of each program year, if they do not withdraw during the program year, a number of restricted share units equal to 50% of the number of shares purchased during that year. The restricted share units granted under the VEIP are subject to a
cliff vesting period of 2 years.   
         F-33

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
        Employee Share Purchase Plans
        2001 ESPP        The 2001 ESPP is a nonqualified plan that allows eligible employee participants to purchase Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares at a discount through payroll deductions. Under the 2001 ESPP,
substantially all employees may elect to contribute 1% to 10% of their compensation during each semi-annual offering period (up to a per participant maximum of $7.5 per offering period) to purchase Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares. The May
2010 share issuance was satisfied under the 2001 ESPP. Any new purchase offers made on or after February 4, 2010 were under the 2010 ESPP. Any share capacity remaining under the 2001 ESPP was cancelled and not incorporated into the 2010 ESPP
share reserve.      As of August 31, 2010, 64,322,506 Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares had been issued under the
2001 ESPP. Under the 2001 ESPP, the Company issued 4,597,562 shares, 6,397,698 shares and 5,618,568 shares to employees in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively        2010 ESPP        On February 4, 2010, Accenture s shareholders
approved the Accenture plc 2010 Employee Share Purchase Plan (the  2010 ESPP ), which the Board of Directors of Accenture approved on December 10, 2009. The 2010 ESPP is similar to the 2001 ESPP, but with updates to plan provisions
generally intended to reflect changes in tax and accounting rules and to provide greater flexibility to vary the terms upon which shares are offered for purchase to different groups or categories of employees.   
  A maximum of 45,000,000 Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares may be issued under the 2010 ESPP plan. The Company also issues the
shares purchased under the VEIP from the 2010 ESPP. As of August 31, 2010, 1,723,835 Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares had been issued under the 2010 ESPP.       12.    SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY        Accenture plc    
    Ordinary Shares     
  The Company has 40,000 authorized ordinary shares, par value  1 per share. Each ordinary share of Accenture plc entitles its
holder to receive payments upon a liquidation of Accenture plc; however a holder of an ordinary share is not entitled to vote on matters submitted to a vote of shareholders of Accenture plc or to receive dividends.   
    Class A Ordinary Shares        An Accenture plc Class A ordinary share entitles its holder to one vote per share, and holders of those shares do not have cumulative voting rights. Each Class A ordinary share entitles its
holder to a pro rata part of any dividend at the times and in the amounts, if any, which Accenture plc s Board of Directors from time to time determines to declare, subject to any preferred dividend rights attaching to any preferred shares.
Each Class A ordinary share is entitled on a winding-up of Accenture plc to be paid a pro rata part of the value of the assets of Accenture plc remaining after payment of its liabilities, subject to any preferred rights on liquidation attaching
to any preferred shares.   
         F-34

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
         Class X Ordinary Shares
       An Accenture plc Class X ordinary share entitles its holder to one vote per share, and holders of those shares do
not have cumulative voting rights. A Class X ordinary share does not entitle its holder to receive dividends, and holders of those shares are not entitled to be paid any amount upon a winding-up of Accenture plc. Most of the Company s
partners who received Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares in connection with the Company s transition to a corporate structure received a corresponding number of Accenture plc
Class X ordinary shares. Accenture plc may redeem, at its option, any Class X ordinary share for a redemption price equal to the par value of the Class X ordinary share. Accenture plc has separately agreed with the original holders of
Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares not to redeem any Class X ordinary share of such holder if the redemption would reduce the number of Class X ordinary shares held by that
holder to a number that is less than the number of Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares owned by that holder, as the case may be. Accenture plc will redeem Class X ordinary shares upon
the redemption or exchange of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares so that the aggregate number of Class X ordinary shares outstanding at any time does not exceed the aggregate number
of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares outstanding. Class X ordinary shares are not transferable without the consent of Accenture plc.   
   Equity of Subsidiaries Redeemable or Exchangeable for Accenture plc Class A Ordinary Shares    
    Accenture SCA Class I Common Shares        Senior executives in certain countries, including the United States, received Accenture SCA Class I common shares in connection with the Company s transition to a corporate structure. Only the
Company and its current and former senior executives and their permitted transferees hold Accenture SCA Class I common shares. Each Accenture SCA Class I common share entitles its holder to one vote on all matters submitted to a vote of
shareholders of Accenture SCA and entitles its holders to dividends and liquidation payments.      Accenture SCA is obligated, at
the option of the holder, to redeem any outstanding Accenture SCA Class I common share at a redemption price per share generally equal to its current market value as determined in accordance with Accenture SCA s articles of association.
Under Accenture SCA s articles of association, the market value of a Class I common share will be deemed to be equal to (i) the average of the high and low sales prices of an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share as reported on
the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other designated market on which the Class A ordinary shares trade), net of customary brokerage and similar transaction costs, or (ii) if Accenture plc sells its Class A ordinary shares on the
date that the redemption price is determined (other than in a transaction with any employee or an affiliate or pursuant to a preexisting obligation), the weighted average sales price of an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share on the New York
Stock Exchange (or on such other market on which the Class A ordinary shares primarily trade), net of customary brokerage and similar transaction costs. Accenture SCA may, at its option, pay this redemption price with cash or by delivering
Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares on a one-for-one basis. Each holder of Class I common shares is entitled to a pro rata part of any dividend and to the value of any remaining assets of Accenture SCA after payment of its liabilities
upon dissolution.   
         F-35

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
         Accenture SCA Class II
and Class III common shares        On November 16, 2009, the shareholders of Accenture SCA approved amendments to
Accenture SCA s articles of association pursuant to which all of the Class II common shares and Class III common shares of Accenture SCA, which were all held by the Company, were reclassified into Class I common shares with the same rights as
the Class I common shares that existed prior to November 16, 2009, as described above under   Accenture SCA Class I Common Shares,  including being entitled to the payment of cash dividends. This amendment had no effect on the
relative economic rights of Accenture plc or the other holders of Accenture SCA Class I common shares.        Accenture Canada Holdings Inc.
Exchangeable Shares        Partners resident in Canada and New Zealand received Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable
shares in connection with the Company s transition to a corporate structure. Holders of Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares may exchange their shares for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares at any time on a one-for-one
basis. The Company may, at its option, satisfy this exchange with cash at a price per share generally equal to the market price of an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share at the time of the exchange. Each exchangeable share of Accenture Canada
Holdings Inc. entitles its holder to receive distributions equal to any distributions to which an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share entitles its holder.       13.    MATERIAL TRANSACTIONS AFFECTING SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY    
   Share Purchase And Redemption Activity       The Board of Directors of Accenture plc has authorized funding for the Company s publicly announced open-market share purchase program for acquiring Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and for
purchases and redemptions of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares held by the Company s current and former senior executives and their
permitted transferees.      The Company s share purchase activity during fiscal 2010 was as follows:   

(1)  
  The Company conducts a publicly announced, open-market share purchase program for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares. These shares are held as treasury shares
by Accenture plc and may be utilized to provide for select employee benefits, such as equity awards to the Company s employees.         

(2)  
  During fiscal 2010, as authorized under the Company s various employee equity share plans, the Company acquired Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares
primarily via share withholding for payroll tax obligations due from employees and former employees in connection with the delivery of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares under those plans.     
         F-36

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
       As of
August 31, 2010, the Company s aggregate available authorization was $2,920,219 for its publicly announced open-market share purchase program and the other share purchase programs.        Other Share Redemptions        During fiscal 2010, the Company issued
3,977,356 Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares upon redemptions of an equivalent number of Accenture SCA Class I common shares pursuant to its registration statement on Form S-3 (the  registration statement ). The registration
statement allows the Company, at its option, to issue freely tradable Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares in lieu of cash upon redemptions of Accenture SCA Class I common shares held by the Company s senior executives, former executives
and their permitted transferees.        Dividends        The Company s dividend activity during fiscal 2010 was as follows:       
    The payment of the cash dividends also resulted in the issuance of additional restricted share units to
holders of restricted share units. Diluted weighted average Accenture plc Class A ordinary share amounts have been restated for all periods presented to reflect this issuance.       Subsequent Events       On September 29, 2010, the Board of Directors of
Accenture plc declared a semi-annual cash dividend of $0.45 per share on its Class A ordinary shares payable to shareholders of record at the close of business on October 15, 2010. Accenture plc will cause Accenture SCA to declare a
semi-annual cash dividend of $0.45 per share on its Class I common shares payable to shareholders of record at the close of business on October 12, 2010. Both dividends are payable on November 15, 2010. The payment of the cash
dividends will result in the issuance of an immaterial number of additional restricted share units to holders of restricted share units.   
         F-37

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    

14.    LEASE COMMITMENTS       The Company has operating leases, principally for office space, with various renewal options. Substantially all operating leases are non-cancelable or cancelable only by the payment of penalties. Rental
expense in agreements with rent holidays and scheduled rent increases is recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Rental expense, including operating costs and taxes and sublease income from third parties, during fiscal 2010, 2009 and
2008 was as follows:       
    Future minimum rental
commitments under non-cancelable operating leases as of August 31, 2010, were as follows:       
     15.    COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES        Commitments       The Company has the right to purchase or may also be required
to purchase substantially all of the remaining outstanding shares of its Avanade Inc. subsidiary ( Avanade ) not owned by the Company at fair value if certain events occur. Certain holders of Avanade common stock and options to purchase
the stock have put rights that, under certain circumstances and conditions, would require Avanade to redeem shares of its stock at fair value. As of August 31, 2010 and August 31, 2009, the Company has reflected the fair value of $93,404
and $87,578, respectively, related to Avanade s redeemable common stock and the intrinsic value of the options on redeemable common stock in Other accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.   
   Indemnifications and Guarantees       In the normal course of business and in conjunction with certain client engagements, the Company has entered into contractual arrangements through which it may be obligated to indemnify clients with
respect to certain matters. These arrangements with clients can include provisions whereby the Company has joint and several liability in relation to the performance of certain contractual obligations along with third parties also providing services
and products for a specific project. Indemnification provisions are also included in arrangements under which the Company agrees to hold the indemnified party harmless   
         F-38

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    

with respect to third-party claims related to such matters as title to assets sold or licensed or certain intellectual property rights.   
  Typically, the Company has contractual recourse against third parties for certain payments made by the Company in connection with
arrangements where third-party nonperformance has given rise to the client s claim. Payments by the Company under any of the arrangements described above are generally conditioned on the client making a claim, which may be disputed by the
Company typically under dispute resolution procedures specified in the particular arrangement. The limitations of liability under these arrangements may be expressly limited or may not be expressly specified in terms of time and/or amount.
     As of August 31, 2010 and August 31, 2009, the Company s aggregate potential liability to its clients for
expressly limited guarantees involving the performance of third parties was approximately $556,000 and $508,000, respectively, of which all but approximately $71,000 and $24,000, respectively, may be recovered from the other third parties if the
Company is obligated to make payments to the indemnified parties that are the consequence of a performance default by the other third parties. For arrangements with unspecified limitations, the Company cannot reasonably estimate the aggregate
maximum potential liability, as it is inherently difficult to predict the maximum potential amount of such payments, due to the conditional nature and unique facts of each particular arrangement.   
  To date, the Company has not been required to make any significant payment under any of the arrangements described above. The Company has
assessed the current status of performance/payment risk related to arrangements with limited guarantees, unspecified limitations and/or indemnification provisions and believes that any potential payments would be immaterial to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, as a whole.       Legal Contingencies       As of August 31, 2010, the Company or its present personnel had been named as a defendant in various litigation matters. The Company and/or its personnel also from time to time are involved in
investigations by various regulatory or legal authorities concerning matters arising in the course of its business around the world. Based on the present status of these matters, management believes these matters will not ultimately have a material
effect on the Company s results of operations or financial condition.       16.    SEGMENT REPORTING    
  Operating segments are components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by
the chief operating decision maker, or decision-making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.      The Company s chief operating decision maker is its Chief Executive Officer. The Company s operating segments are managed separately because each operating segment represents a strategic
business unit providing management consulting, technology and outsourcing services to clients in different industries.   
         F-39

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
       The Company s
reportable operating segments are the five operating groups, which are Communications   High Tech, Financial Services, Health   Public Service, Products and Resources. Information regarding the Company s reportable operating
segments is as follows:       

(1)  
  On September 1, 2009, the Company formed the Health   Public Service operating group by combining various healthcare-related components of its Products
operating group with its Public Service operating group. Prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current-period presentation.         

(2)  
  Amounts include depreciation on property and equipment controlled by each operating segment, as well as an allocation for depreciation on property and equipment they do
not directly control.         

(3)  
  Operating segment assets directly attributed to an operating segment and provided to the chief operating decision maker include Receivables from clients, current and
non-current Unbilled services, Deferred contract costs and current and non-current Deferred revenues.        The
accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those described in Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to these Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         F-40

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
       Revenues are
attributed to geographic areas and countries based on where client services are supervised. Information regarding geography and countries is as follows:       

(1)  
  EMEA includes Europe, Middle East and Africa.        The Company conducts business in the following countries that individually comprised 10% or more of consolidated Net revenues within fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008:   
   
    The Company conducts
business in the following countries that hold 10% or more of its total consolidated Property and equipment, net, as follows:       
     
  n/a = not applicable   
         F-41

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
       Net revenues by
type of work are as follows:       
     17.    QUARTERLY DATA (unaudited)    

(1)  
  On May 6, 2010, between 2:40pm EDT and 3:00pm EDT, U.S. equity markets experienced a rapid, severe decline and corresponding recovery, which has become known as
the  flash crash.  Our stock was one of the securities involved in the  flash crash  and, because of this event, shows an intraday low on the consolidated tape of trades on all exchanges and market centers of $17.74; while
on the NYSE, which is our primary listing exchange, the intraday low was $38.75.     
         F-42

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    

F-43

<EX-21.1>
 2
 dex211.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

Exhibit 21.1
       Subsidiaries of the Registrant       Certain subsidiaries of the registrant and their subsidiaries are listed below.       

Name    
      
   Country of Organization    
 
    Sistemes Consulting S.A   
      
  Andorra   
 
    Accenture SRL   
      
  Argentina   
 
    Accenture Service Center SRL   
      
  Argentina   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions Pty Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Accenture Australia Holdings Pty Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Accenture HR Services (Australia) Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Avanade Australia Pty Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Navitaire Australia Pty Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    MediaSenz Pty Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Accenture GmbH   
      
  Austria   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions GmbH   
      
  Austria   
 
    Accenture BPM CVBA/SCRL   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Accenture S.A.\.N.V.   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions NV/SA   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Accenture Technology Ventures S.P.R.L.   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Avanade Belgium SPRL   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Accenture Australia Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Accenture Australia (1) Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Accenture Australia (2) Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Accenture Australia (3) Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Blue Insurance Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    ENMAX Technology Bolivia S.A.   
      
  Bolivia   
 
    Accenture (Botswana) (PTY) Ltd.   
      
  Botswana   
 
    Du Chazal Du Mee Pty Ltd   
      
  Botswana   
 
    Accenture do Brasil Ltda   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Accenture Automacao e TI Industrial Ltda   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Accenture Servicos de Suporte de Negocios Ltda   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Accenture Canada Holdings Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    1021904 Ontario Limited   
      
  Canada   
 
    Accenture Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions Canada, Inc. Also known as Solutions technologiques Accenture Canada,
Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Accenture Business Services of British Columbia Limited Partnership   
      
  Canada   
 
    Accenture Business Services for Utilities Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Accenture Business Services General Partner Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Accenture Nova Scotia Unlimited Liability Co.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Avanade Canada Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Navitaire Canada Corporation   
      
  Canada   
 
    Accenture Chile Asesorias y Servicios Ltda   
      
  Chile   
 
    Accenture (China) Co Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions (Dalian) Co Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Guangzhou Bao Zhe Information Consulting Co Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Qi Jie (Beijing) Info Tech Co Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Avanade Guangzhou   
      
  China   
 
    Avanade GZ Computer Technology Development Co. Ltd. (SH)   
      
  China    

Name    
      
   Country of Organization    

Accenture Ltda   
      
  Colombia   
 
    Accenture Services s.r.o   
      
  Czech Republic   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions s.r.o.   
      
  Czech Republic   
 
    Navitaire Prague s.r.o.   
      
  Czech Republic   
 
    Accenture Denmark Holdings A/S   
      
  Denmark   
 
    Accenture Australia Holdings ApS   
      
  Denmark   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions A/S   
      
  Denmark   
 
    Avanade Denmark ApS   
      
  Denmark   
 
    ENMAX Technology-Ecuador S.A.   
      
  Ecuador   
 
    Accenture Egypt LLC   
      
  Egypt   
 
    Accenture Oy   
      
  Finland   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions Oy   
      
  Finland   
 
    Accenture Services Oy   
      
  Finland   
 
    Avanade Finland Oy   
      
  Finland   
 
    Digiplug SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions SAS   
      
  France   
 
    InVita SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Avanade SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Accenture Holdings France SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Insurance Services SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Solutions Assurance Vie S.A.   
      
  France   
 
    Acceria SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Accenture GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Accenture Management GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Accenture Holding GmbH   Co. KG   
      
  Germany   
 
    Accenture Dienstleistungen GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Accenture Services GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Accenture Services f r Kreditinstitute GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Accenture Services f r Human Resources GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Avanade Deutschland GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    ATV eMillenuim Beteiligung GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Accenture Human Capital Management Solutions   
      
  Germany   
 
    Accenture Finance (Gibraltar) Ltd.   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Accenture Finance (Gibraltar) II Ltd.   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Accenture Finance (Gibraltar) III Ltd.   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Accenture Minority III Ltd.   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Accenture Minority IV Ltd.   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Accenture Minority V Ltd.   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Accenture Technology Ventures (Gibraltar) Ltd.   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Accenture PLC   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Accenture S.A.   
      
  Greece   
 
    Accenture BPM S.A.   
      
  Greece   
 
    Accenture Co Ltd.   
      
  Hong Kong SAR   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions (HK)Co. Ltd.   
      
  Hong Kong SAR   
 
    Avanade Hong Kong Ltd.   
      
  Hong Kong SAR   
 
    Accenture Tanacsado Korlatolt Felelossegu Tarsasag KFT (Also known as Accenture KFT)   
      
  Hungary   
 
    Accenture Services Private Ltd.   
      
  India   
 
    P.T. Accenture   
      
  Indonesia    

Name    
      
   Country of Organization    

Accenture   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Accenture European Service Center Ltd.   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Accenture Defined Benefit Pension Plan Trustees Ltd   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Accenture Defined Contribution Pension Plan Trustees Ltd   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Accenture IOM 1 Company Limited   
      
  Isle of Man   
 
    Accenture IOM 2 Company Limited   
      
  Isle of Man   
 
    Accenture Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Accenture SpA   
      
  Italy   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions SRL   
      
  Italy   
 
    Accenture Outsourcing SRL   
      
  Italy   
 
    Accenture Insurance Services SpA   
      
  Italy   
 
    Accenture Finance and Accounting BPO Services SpA   
      
  Italy   
 
    Accenture Insurance Services and Systems SpA   
      
  Italy   
 
    Accenture HR Services SpA/TESS SpA   
      
  Italy   
 
    Avanade Italy SRL   
      
  Italy   
 
    Accenture Japan Ltd.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions Japan KK   
      
  Japan   
 
    Proquire KK   
      
  Japan   
 
    Avanade Japan KK   
      
  Japan   
 
    Sopia Corporation (Kabushiki Kaisha Sopia)   
      
  Japan   
 
    Accenture East Africa Ltd.   
      
  Kenya   
 
    Accenture S rl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Accenture S.C.A.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Accenture International S rl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Accenture Minority III Norway 1 S.C.A.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Accenture Minority III Norway 2 S.C.A.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Accenture International Capital SCA   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Accenture Sdn. Bhd   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions Sdn Bhd   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Accenture Solutions Sdn Bhd   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Advent Business Services Sdn. Bhd   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Avanade Malaysia Sdn Bhd   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Accenture Mauritius Ltd.   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    Accenture (Mauritius) Onshore Ltd.   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    Beaumont Development Centre Holding Ltd.   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    AP Holdings Co Ltd.   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    De Chazal Du Mee Consulting Ltd.   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    Accenture S.C.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Operaciones Accenture S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions S.C.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Servicios Tecnicos de Programacion Accenture S.C.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Accenture Service Centre Morocco SA   
      
  Morocco   
 
    Accenture Holdings B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture Branch Holdings B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture Finance B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture Properties(2) B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture India Holdings B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture Middle East B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture Central Europe B.V.   
      
  Netherlands    

Name    
      
   Country of Organization    

Accenture Greece B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture Australia Holding B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture Korea BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture Technology Ventures BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture Participations BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture Minority I BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture Insurance Services BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Avanade Netherlands BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Partners Technology Mexico Holdings BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture Business Services BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture Equity Finance BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture NZ Limited   
      
  New Zealand   
 
    Accenture Ltd.   
      
  New Zealand   
 
    Accenture Ltd.   
      
  Nigeria   
 
    Accenture A.S   
      
  Norway   
 
    Avanade Norway AS   
      
  Norway   
 
    Accenture Inc.   
      
  Philippines   
 
    Accenture Healthcare Processing Inc.   
      
  Philippines   
 
    Accenture Sp. z.o.o.   
      
  Poland   
 
    Accenture Services Sp. z.o.o.   
      
  Poland   
 
    Accenture Consultores de Gestao S.A.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions S.A.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions-Solucoes Informaticas Integrados, S.A.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Accenture Services S.r.l.   
      
  Romania   
 
    Accenture OOO   
      
  Russia   
 
    Accenture Pte Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions Pte Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Avanade Asia Pte Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Accenture s.r.o.   
      
  Slovak Republic   
 
    Accenture Services s.r.o.   
      
  Slovak Republic   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions Slovakia s.r.o.   
      
  Slovak Republic   
 
    Accenture (South Africa) Pty Ltd.   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Accenture Services (South Africa)Pty Ltd.   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions Pty Ltd.   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Accenture Africa Pty Ltd.   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Accenture Technology Infrastructure Services Pty Ltd.   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Accenture Yuhan Hoesa Also known as Accenture Ltd.   
      
  South Korea   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions Ltd.   
      
  South Korea   
 
    Accenture S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Accenture Outsourcing Services S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Accenture Human Capital Mgmt. Sol. S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Accenture Holdings (Iberia) S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Coritel S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Alnova Technologies Corporation S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Avanade Spain SL   
      
  Spain   
 
    CustomerWorks Europe SL   
      
  Spain   
 
    Energuiaweb SL   
      
  Spain   
 
    NetPersonas SIGP SL   
      
  Spain    

Name    
      
   Country of Organization    

Accenture AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Accenture Services AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Avanade Sweden AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Accenture AG   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions AG   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Accenture Holding GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Accenture Global Services GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Accenture Finance GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Accenture Finance II GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Avanade Schweiz GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Accenture Services AG   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Accenture Supply Chain Services   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Accenture Co Ltd.   
      
  Taiwan   
 
    Accenture Solutions Co Ltd.   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Accenture Co Ltd.   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Accenture Technolgy Solutions (Thailand) Ltd.   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Avanade (Thailand) Co Ltd.   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Accenture Danismanlik Limited Sirketi   
      
  Turkey   
 
    Accenture BPM is Yonetimi Limited Sirketi   
      
  Turkey   
 
    Accenture Ukraine LLC   
      
  Ukraine   
 
    Accenture (UK) Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Avanade UK Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Avanade Europe Holdings Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Avanade Europe Services Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Imagine Broadband Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    The Accenture Group   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Accenture Services Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Accenture HR Services Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Navitaire (UK) Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Media Audits Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Media Audits Group Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pecaso UK Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pecaso Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pecaso Holdings Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Accenture Properties   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Memetrics Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Accenture LLP   
      
  United States   
 
    Accenture Inc.   
      
  United States   
 
    Accenture LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    Accenture Capital Inc.   
      
  United States   
 
    Accenture Sub Inc.   
      
  United States   
 
    Accenture Financial Corporation   
      
  United States   
 
    Avanade Inc.   
      
  United States   
 
    Avanade International Corporation   
      
  United States   
 
    Avanade Holdings LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    Digital Asset Management Co.   
      
  United States   
 
    Maple Insurance Inc.   
      
  United States   
 
    Navitaire Inc.   
      
  United States    

Name    
      
   Country of Organization    

Navitaire International Inc.   
      
  United States   
 
    Proquire LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    Accenture National Security Services LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    Accenture Relocation LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    Accenture HR Services Inc.   
      
  United States   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions US, Inc.   
      
  United States   
 
    Accenture BPO Services LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    Media Audits North America   
      
  United States   
 
    Accenture Insurance Services LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    Accenture Puerto Rico LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    BABCN LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    Accenture 2, Inc.   
      
  United States   
 
    Origin Digital, Inc.   
      
  United States   
 
    Avanade Fed Services LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    Accenture C.A.   
      
  Venezuela    

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 3
 dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF KPMG LLP

Consent of KPMG LLP 

Exhibit 23.1
       Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm        The Board of Directors        Accenture plc:    
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (No. 333-166290) on Form S-3 and (No. 333-164737)
and (No. 333-65376-99) on Forms S-8 of Accenture plc of our report dated October 25, 2010, with respect to the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Accenture plc as of August 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related Consolidated Statements of
Income, Shareholders  Equity and Comprehensive Income, and Cash Flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended August 31, 2010, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2010,
which report appears in the August 31, 2010 annual report on Form 10-K of Accenture plc.      The Company, as of September 1, 2007,
changed its method of accounting for uncertain tax positions. The Company, as of September 1, 2009, adopted guidance on noncontrolling interests.      /s/ KPMG LLP      Chicago, Illinois      October 25, 2010   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 4
 dex232.htm
 CONSENT OF KPMG LLP RELATED TO THE ACCENTURE PLC 2010 EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE

Consent of KPMG LLP related to the Accenture plc 2010 Employee Share Purchase 

Exhibit 23.2
       Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm        The Board of Directors        Accenture plc:    
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (No. 333-142989) on Form S-3 and (No. 333-164737) on
Form S-8 of Accenture plc of our report dated October 25, 2010, with respect to the Statement of Financial Condition of the Accenture plc 2010 Employee Share Purchase Plan as of August 31, 2010, and the related Statement of Operations and
Changes in Plan Equity for the period February 4, 2010 (Inception) through August 31, 2010, which report appears in the August 31, 2010 annual report on Form 10-K of Accenture plc.   
  /s/ KPMG LLP      Chicago, Illinois   
  October 25, 2010   

</EX-23.2>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 dex311.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO RULES 13A-14(A)

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) 

Exhibit 31.1
       CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CERTIFICATION       I, William D. Green, certify that:      1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form
10-K of Accenture plc for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2010, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof;      2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge,
the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:   
  a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;      b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over
financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles;      c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   
  d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred
during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   
  a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.   

Dated: October 25, 2010  

/s/    W ILLIAM  D.
G REEN     

William D. Green   

Chief Executive Officer of Accenture plc    

(principal executive officer)     

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 dex312.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO RULES 13A-14(A)

Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) 

Exhibit 31.2
       CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER CERTIFICATION       I, Pamela J. Craig, certify that:      1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form
10-K of Accenture plc for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2010, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof;      2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge,
the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:   
  a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;      b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over
financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles;      c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   
  d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred
during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   
  a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.   

Dated: October 25, 2010  

/s/    P AMELA  J. C RAIG     

Pamela J. Craig   

Chief Financial Officer of Accenture plc    

(principal financial officer)     

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 dex321.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 

Exhibit 32.1
       Certification of the Chief Executive Officer        Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350,        As Adopted Pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002       In connection with the Annual Report of Accenture plc (the
 Company ) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2010 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, William D. Green, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      (1) The
Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      (2) The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.       

Dated: October 25, 2010  

/s/     W ILLIAM  D.
G REEN     

William D. Green   

Chief Executive Officer of Accenture plc    

(principal executive officer)     

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 dex322.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350

Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 

Exhibit 32.2
       Certification of the Chief Financial Officer        Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350,        As Adopted Pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002       In connection with the Annual Report of Accenture plc (the
 Company ) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2010 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Pamela J. Craig, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      (1) The
Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      (2) The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.       

Dated: October 25, 2010  

/s/    P AMELA  J.
C RAIG     

Pamela J. Craig   

Chief Financial Officer of Accenture plc    

(principal financial officer)     

</EX-32.2>

<EX-99.1>
 9
 dex991.htm
 ACCENTURE PLC 2010 EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PLAN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Accenture plc 2010 Employee Share Purchase Plan Financial Statements 

Exhibit 99.1
       Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm        To the Participants of the Accenture plc 2010 Employee Share Purchase Plan and the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Accenture plc:    
  We have audited the accompanying statement of financial condition of the Accenture plc 2010 Employee Share Purchase Plan (the
 Plan ) as of August 31, 2010, and the related statement of operations and changes in plan equity for the period February 4, 2010 (Inception) through August 31, 2010. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Plan s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.      We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Accenture plc 2010 Employee Share Purchase Plan as of August 31,
2010, and the changes in its financial status for the period February 4, 2010 (Inception) through August 31, 2010, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.   
  /s/ KPMG LLP      Chicago, Illinois   
  October 25, 2010   

ACCENTURE PLC 2010
EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PLAN        STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL CONDITION    
   August 31, 2010        
    The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these financial statements.   

ACCENTURE PLC 2010
EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PLAN        STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS AND CHANGES IN PLAN EQUITY    
   For the period of February 4, 2010 (Inception) to August 31, 2010    
   
    The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these financial statements.   

ACCENTURE PLC 2010
EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PLAN        NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
   1. PLAN DESCRIPTION    
  The following description of the Accenture plc 2010 Employee Share Purchase Plan (the  Plan ) is provided for general
information purposes. Participants in the Plan should refer to the Plan document for more detailed and complete information. Under the Plan, there are two programs through which participants may purchase shares: (1) the Employee Share Purchase
Plan (the  ESPP ) and (2) the Voluntary Equity Investment Program (the  VEIP ).       General    
  Under the Plan, which was approved by the shareholders of Accenture plc (the  Company ) at their February 4, 2010 meeting,
and approved by the Board of Directors (the  Board ) on December 10, 2009, the Company is authorized to issue or transfer up to 45,000,000 Class A ordinary shares ( Shares ) of the Company. The Plan is administered by
the Compensation Committee of the Board (the  Committee ), which may delegate its duties and powers in whole or in part as it determines, provided, however, that the Board may, in its sole discretion, take any action designated to the
Committee under the Plan as it may deem necessary. The Company pays all expenses of the Plan. The Shares may consist, in whole or in part, of unissued Shares or previously issued Shares that have been reacquired.   
  The Plan provides eligible employees of the Company or of a participating subsidiary with an opportunity to purchase Shares at a purchase
price established by the Committee, which shall in no event be less than 85% of the fair market value of a Share on the purchase date.      The  fair market value  on a given date is defined as the arithmetic mean of the high and low prices of the Shares as reported on such date on the composite tape of the principal national
securities exchange on which the Shares are listed or admitted to trading, or, if no sale of Shares shall have been reported on the composite tape of any national securities exchange on such date, then the immediately preceding date on which sales
of the Shares have been so reported or quoted shall be used.      In general, any individual who is an employee of the Company or
of a participating subsidiary is eligible to participate in the Plan, except that the Committee may exclude employees (either individually or by reference to a subset thereof) from participation (1) whose customary employment is less than five
months per calendar year or less than 20 hours or less per week; (2) who own shares equaling 5% or more of the total combined voting power or value of all classes of shares of the Company or any subsidiary; or (3) who are highly
compensated employees under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ). The Plan does not currently qualify as an  employee stock purchase plan  under Section 423 of the Code and therefore receipt of the
Shares will be a taxable event to the participant. The Plan is not subject to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.       Contributions       Payroll deductions will generally be made from the
compensation paid to each participant during an offering period in a whole percentage as elected by the participant but not to exceed the maximum percentage of the participant s compensation (or maximum dollar amount) as is permitted by the
Committee. Under the ESPP, the maximum whole percentage is 10% (up to a maximum of $7,500 per offering period), provided that no participant will be entitled to purchase, during any calendar year, Shares with an aggregate value in excess of $25,000.
Under the VEIP, eligible senior executives may choose to contribute up to 30% of their total compensation towards the purchase of Shares. The amount of the contributions is based on pre-tax cash compensation, but contributions are deducted from
after-tax pay each pay period. Individual participation is subject to an aggregate participation limit as is permitted by the Committee.   

A
participant may elect his or her percentage of payroll deductions, and change that election, prior to the applicable offering period as determined by the Committee. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, a participant cannot change the rate
of payroll deductions once an offering period has commenced. All payroll deductions made with respect to a participant are credited to the participant s payroll deduction account under the Plan and are deposited with the general funds of the
Company. All funds of participants received or held by the Company under the Plan before purchase or issuance of the Shares are held without liability for interest or other increment. Under the Plan, the ESPP offering period commenced on May 2,
2010 and will end on November 1, 2010. The VEIP has a calendar year offering period and monthly contribution periods in which shares are purchased on the 5   th    of the subsequent month.       Share Purchases       As soon as practicable following the end of each ESPP
offering period or VEIP contribution period, the number of Shares purchased by each participant is deposited into a brokerage account established in the participant s name. Dividends that are declared on the Shares held in the brokerage account
are paid in cash or reinvested. The only share purchases for the period of February 4, 2010 (Inception) to August 31, 2010 related to the VEIP. The VEIP purchase activity for the period of February 4, 2010 (Inception) to
August 31, 2010 was as follows:       
    As of August 31,
2010, 1,723,835 Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares had been issued under the Plan.       Withdrawals    
  Each Participant may withdraw from participation in respect of an offering period or from the Plan under such terms and conditions as are
established by the Committee in its sole discretion. Upon a Participant s withdrawal, all accumulated payroll deductions in the participant s Plan account are returned without interest (to the extent permitted by applicable local law) A
participant is not entitled to any Shares with respect to the applicable offering period, except under the VEIP for those shares purchased in contribution periods prior to withdrawal. A participant is permitted to participate in subsequent offering
periods pursuant to terms and conditions established by the Committee in its sole discretion.       Adjustments    
  The number of Shares issued or reserved for issuance pursuant to the Plan (or pursuant to outstanding awards) is subject to adjustment on
account of share splits, share dividends and other changes in the Shares. In the event of a change in control of the Company, the Committee may take any actions it deems necessary or desirable with respect to any option as of the date of
consummation of the change in control.   

Plan Amendment and Termination
      The Board may amend, alter or discontinue the Plan, provided, however, that no amendment, alteration or discontinuation
will be made that would increase the total number of Shares authorized for the Plan, or without a participant s consent, would materially adversely affect the participant s rights and obligations under the Plan. The Plan will terminate
upon the earliest of: (1) the termination of the Plan by the Board; (2) the issuance of all of the Shares reserved for issuance under the Plan; or (3) the tenth anniversary of the effective date of the Plan.   
   2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION       The accompanying financial statements have been prepared on the accrual basis of accounting. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires
the Plan s management to use estimates and assumptions that affect the accompanying financial statements and disclosures. Actual results could differ from these estimates.      As of August 31, 2010, Contributions receivable represents payroll deductions from participants with respect to the ESPP offering period beginning May 2, 2010 and ending November 1, 2010,
as well as the VEIP contribution period beginning August 1, 2010 and ending August 31, 2010. These payroll deductions are held by Accenture plc and/or its affiliates.      Plan equity represents net assets available for future share purchases or participant withdrawals.   
   3. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS    
  The Company has evaluated events and transactions subsequent to the Plan s statement of financial condition date. Based on this
evaluation, the Company is not aware of any events or transactions that occurred subsequent to the Plan s statement of financial condition date but prior to filing that would require recognition or disclosure in these financial statements.

</EX-99.1>

<EX-101.INS>
 10
 acn-20100831.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 11
 acn-20100831.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 12
 acn-20100831_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 13
 acn-20100831_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 14
 acn-20100831_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 15
 acn-20100831_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

