<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20111021_10-K_edgar_data_1467373_0001193125-11-277309_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>12662758</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>379945</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>2864080</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2631096</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>4277285</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2152296</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>73</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-11-277309.hdr.sgml : 20111021
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20111021160617
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-11-277309
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		15
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20110831
FILED AS OF DATE:		20111021
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20111021

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			Accenture plc
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001467373
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-BUSINESS SERVICES, NEC [7389]
		IRS NUMBER:				980627530
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			L2
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0831

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-34448
		FILM NUMBER:		111152693

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1 GRAND CANAL SQUARE
		STREET 2:		GRAND CANAL HARBOUR
		CITY:			DUBLIN
		STATE:			L2
		ZIP:			D2
		BUSINESS PHONE:		353-1-646-2000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1 GRAND CANAL SQUARE
		STREET 2:		GRAND CANAL HARBOUR
		CITY:			DUBLIN
		STATE:			L2
		ZIP:			D2

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-11-277309.txt : 20111021

10-K
 1
 d222389d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549         
    
   FORM 10-K        (Mark
One)    
 
    For the fiscal year ended August 31, 2011    
    OR        

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 for the transition period
from                 to                        
   Commission File Number: 001-34448         
        Accenture
plc        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)    

Ireland   
     
   98-0627530    
 
     (State or other jurisdiction of   
   incorporation or organization)    
     
   (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)    
     1 Grand Canal Square,        Grand Canal Harbour,        Dublin 2, Ireland    
   (Address of principal executive offices)        (353) (1) 646-2000        (Registrant s telephone number, including
area code)       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   

Title of each class    
      
     Name of each exchange on which registered     

Class A ordinary shares, par value $0.0000225 per share  
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
           
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:      Class X ordinary shares, par value $0.0000225 per share   
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes            No       
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.    Yes            No       
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.    Yes           No       
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any,
every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post
such files).    Yes           No       
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405
of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.             Indicate by check
mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller
reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer       
     
  Accelerated filer       
     
  Non-accelerated filer       
     
  Smaller reporting company        

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in
Rule 12b-2 of the Act).    Yes        No       
          The aggregate market value of the common equity of the registrant held by non-affiliates
of the registrant on February 28, 2011 was approximately $33,404,979,311 based on the closing price of the registrant s Class A ordinary shares, par value $0.0000225 per share, reported on the New York Stock Exchange on such date of
$51.48 per share and on the par value of the registrant s Class X ordinary shares, par value $0.0000225 per share.   
          The number of shares of the registrant s Class A ordinary shares, par value
$0.0000225 per share, outstanding as of October 11, 2011 was 640,910,459 (which number does not include 89,072,938 issued shares held by the registrant). The number of shares of the registrant s Class X ordinary shares, par value
$0.0000225 per share, outstanding as of October 11, 2011 was 49,200,177.       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
      Portions of the definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
pursuant to Regulation 14A relating to the registrant s Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on February 9, 2012, will be incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K in response to Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of Part
III. The definitive proxy statement will be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after the registrant s fiscal year ended August 31, 2011.       

Table of Contents  

      TABLE OF CONTENTS    

Page   

Part I    

Item 1.   
      
   Business   

1  

Item 1A.   
      
   Risk Factors   

16  

Item 1B.   
      
   Unresolved Staff Comments   

33  

Item 2.   
      
   Properties   

33  

Item 3.   
      
   Legal Proceedings   

33  

Item 4.   
      
   (Removed and Reserved)   

34  

Part II    

Item 5.   
      
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

37  

Item 6.   
      
   Selected Financial Data   

41  

Item 7.   
      
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

42  

Item 7A.   
      
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk   

64  

Item 8.   
      
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

65  

Item 9.   
      
   Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

65  

Item 9A.   
      
   Controls and Procedures   

65  

Item 9B.   
      
   Other Information   

66  

Part III    

Item 10.   
      
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

67  

Item 11.   
      
   Executive Compensation   

67  

Item 12.   
      
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters   

68  

Item 13.   
      
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   

68  

Item 14.   
      
   Principal Accounting Fees and Services   

68  

Part IV    

Item 15.   
      
   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules   

69  

Signatures    

72  

Table of Contents  

    PART I        Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements       This
Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) relating to our
operations, results of operations and other matters that are based on our current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections. Words such as  may,   will,   should,   likely,   anticipates, 
 expects,   intends,   plans,   projects,   believes,   estimates  and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of
future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Actual outcomes and results may differ
materially from what is expressed or forecast in these forward-looking statements. Risks, uncertainties and other factors that might cause such differences, some of which could be material, include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed
below under the section entitled  Risk Factors.  Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update them.   
   Available Information       Our website address is www.accenture.com. We use our website as a channel of distribution for company information. We make available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our website
(http://investor.accenture.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically
filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. We also make available through our website other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under
the Exchange Act, including our proxy statements and reports filed by officers and directors under Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act, as well as our Code of Business Ethics. Financial and other material information regarding us is routinely
posted on and accessible at http://investor.accenture.com. We do not intend for information contained in our website to be part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   
  Any materials we file with the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC s Public Reference Room at
100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC, 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy
and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.      In
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we use the terms  Accenture,   we,  the  Company,   our  and  us  to refer to Accenture plc and its subsidiaries or, prior to September 1, 2009, to
Accenture Ltd and its subsidiaries. All references to years, unless otherwise noted, refer to our fiscal year, which ends on August 31.   
     ITEM 1.    BUSINESS        Overview       We are one of the world s leading management
consulting, technology services and outsourcing organizations, with approximately 236,000 employees; offices and operations in more than 200 cities in 54 countries; and revenues before reimbursements ( net revenues ) of $25.51 billion for
fiscal 2011.      Our  high performance business  strategy is to use our expertise in consulting,
technology and outsourcing to help clients perform at higher levels so they can create sustainable value for their customers, stakeholders and shareholders. We use our industry and business-process knowledge, our
  
         1   

Table of Contents  

service offering expertise and our insight into, and understanding of, emerging technologies and new business and technology trends to formulate and implement solutions for our clients. Our
strategy is focused on helping clients improve operational performance, deliver their products and services more effectively and efficiently and grow their businesses in existing and new markets.   
  We operate globally with one common brand and business model designed to enable us to provide clients around the world
with the same high level of service. Drawing on a combination of industry expertise, functional capabilities, alliances, global resources and technology, we seek to deliver competitively priced, high-value services that help our clients measurably
improve business performance. Our global delivery model enables us to provide a complete end-to-end delivery capability by drawing on our global resources to deliver high-quality, cost-effective solutions to our clients.   
  In fiscal 2011, we continued to implement a strategy focused on three dimensions: our core business, which includes the
vast majority of management consulting, technology and outsourcing services that we have traditionally provided through our operating groups and growth platforms; strategic initiatives including analytics, digital marketing, mobility, and smart
grid, as well as technology areas such as cloud computing that we are building on top of our core business; and geographic expansion. Our geographic expansion strategy focuses on emerging and mature markets with significant growth potential for
us. Our priority emerging markets are the ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) countries, Brazil, China, India, Mexico, the Middle East, Russia, South Africa, South Korea and Turkey.   
    Consulting, Technology and Outsourcing Services and Solutions     
  Our business is structured around five operating groups, which together comprise 19 industry groups serving clients in
major industries around the world. Our industry focus gives us an understanding of industry evolution, business issues and applicable technologies, enabling us to deliver innovative solutions tailored to each client or, as appropriate, more
standardized capabilities to multiple clients.      Our three growth platforms management consulting,
technology and business process outsourcing are the innovation engines through which we build world-class skills and capabilities; develop our knowledge capital; and create, acquire and manage key assets central to the development of solutions
for our clients. The professionals within these areas work closely with those in our operating groups to develop and deliver integrated services and solutions to clients. Client engagement teams which typically consist of industry experts,
capability specialists and professionals with local market knowledge leverage the capabilities of our global delivery model to deliver price-competitive services and solutions. In certain instances, our client engagement teams include
subcontractors, who supplement our professionals with additional resources in a specific skill, service or product area, as needed.   
         2   

Table of Contents  

     Operating Groups     
  The following table shows the current organization of our five operating groups and their 19 industry groups. Our
operating groups are our reportable operating segments. We do not allocate total assets by operating group, although our operating groups do manage and control certain assets. For certain historical financial information regarding our operating
groups (including certain asset information), as well as financial information by geography (including long-lived asset information), see Note 16 (Segment Reporting) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data.         

Operating Groups and Industry
Groups     
 
   Communications   High Tech*   
      
     Financial   
   Services    
     
   Health   Public Service   
      
   Products   
      
   Resources    

Communications  
     Electronics   High Tech  
     Media   Entertainment   
      
       Banking  
     Capital Markets  
     Insurance   
     
       Health  
     Public Service   
      
       Air, Freight   Travel Services  
     Automotive  
     Consumer Goods   Services  
     Industrial Equipment  
     Infrastructure   Transportation Services  
     Life Sciences  
     Retail   
      
     Chemicals        Energy  
     Natural Resources  
     Utilities    

*  
    On Sept. 1, 2011, the Communications   High Tech operating group changed its name to Communications, Media   Technology.
          Communications   High Tech*     
  Our Communications   High Tech operating group serves the communications, electronics, high technology, media and
entertainment industries. Professionals in this operating group help clients leverage innovation and enhance their business results through industry-specific solutions and by seizing the opportunities made possible by the convergence of
communications, computing and content. Examples of our services and solutions include the application of mobile technology software and services; broadband and Internet protocol solutions; advanced advertising solutions; product innovation and
digital rights management; as well as systems integration, customer care, supply chain, analytics, global operations and workforce transformation services. In support of these services, we have developed an array of assets, repeatable solutions,
methodologies and research facilities to demonstrate how new technologies and industry-leading practices can be applied in new and innovative ways to enhance our clients  business performance. Our Communications   High Tech operating
group comprises the following industry groups:       

Communications.      Our Communications industry group serves most of the world s leading wireline, wireless,
cable and satellite communications and service providers. We provide a wide range of services designed to help our communications clients grow revenues, increase profitability and improve customer satisfaction. We offer a comprehensive solutions
portfolio designed to address major business and operational issues related to sales and service channels, new product innovation, network functions, corporate functions and information technology. Our Communications industry group represented
approximately 55% of our Communications   High Tech operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2011.          

Electronics   High Tech.      Our Electronics   High Tech industry group serves the communications
technology, consumer technology, enterprise technology, semiconductor, software, medical equipment and aerospace/defense segments. This industry group provides      
         3   

Table of Contents  

services in areas such as strategy, enterprise resource management, customer relationship management, integrated mobile solutions, embedded software solutions, product lifecycle management, sales
transformation, supply chain management, human performance and merger/acquisition activities. We also offer a suite of reusable solutions designed to address the industry s major business and operational challenges, such as new product
innovation and development, global operations, sales and marketing, enterprise and consumer channel operations, and customer support. Our Electronics   High Tech industry group represented approximately 35% of our Communications  
High Tech operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2011.          

Media   Entertainment.      Our Media   Entertainment industry group serves the broadcast,
entertainment, print, publishing and portal industries. Professionals in this industry group provide a wide range of services, including digital marketing, performance advertising, digital rights management, and digital content and media
technologies designed to help clients effectively manage, access, distribute and protect content across multiple platforms and devices. We also provide additional comprehensive turn-key solutions through Origin Digital and Digiplug, specialized
Accenture units that help content owners and distributors adapt business processes and systems to enable digital monetization.           Financial Services        Our Financial Services operating
group works with clients in a dynamic and increasingly global market environment to address cost and profitability pressures, industry consolidation, regulatory changes and the need to continually adapt to new technologies. We offer services
designed to help our clients increase cost efficiency, grow their customer bases, manage risk and transform their operations. Our Financial Services operating group comprises the following industry groups:   

Banking.      Our Banking industry group works with retail and commercial banks and diversified financial
enterprises. We help these organizations develop and execute strategies to lower operating costs; acquire and retain customers more effectively; expand product and service offerings; manage risk; comply with new regulatory initiatives; support
integration related to mergers and acquisitions; and leverage new technologies and distribution channels. Our Banking industry group represented approximately 55% of our Financial Services operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2011.

Capital Markets.      Our Capital Markets industry group helps investment banks, broker/dealers, asset-management
firms, depositories, exchanges and clearing and settlement organizations transform their businesses to increase competitiveness. We help clients develop and implement trading, wealth and asset-management, and market infrastructure systems and
solutions.          

Insurance.      Our Insurance industry group helps property and casualty insurers, life insurers, reinsurance
firms and insurance brokers improve business processes, modernize their technologies and improve the quality and consistency of risk selection decisions. We offer claims and policy management software and services designed to enable insurers to
provide better customer service while optimizing costs and to deliver innovative products to market more quickly and efficiently. We also provide a variety of outsourcing solutions designed to help insurers improve working capital and cash flow,
deliver cost savings and enhance long-term growth.      
         4   

Table of Contents  

     Health   Public Service     
  Our Health   Public Service operating group serves healthcare payers and providers, as well as government
agencies and public service organizations, around the world. The group s service offerings and research-based insights help clients deliver better social, economic and health outcomes to the people they serve. Our Health   Public
Service operating group comprises the following industry groups:       

Health.      Health-service organizations are under enormous pressure to reduce costs, improve the access and
quality of healthcare services, and meet ever-growing government and regulatory requirements. Through our Insight-Driven Health initiative, our Health industry group works with healthcare providers, government health departments, policy-making
authorities/regulators, managed care organizations, health insurers and other industry-related organizations around the world to improve the quality, accessibility and affordability of healthcare. Our key offerings address a variety of areas,
including electronic medical records; health insurance exchanges; back-office services for hospitals and health plans; sales and marketing; core administration services; care management services; claims excellence/cost containment; and
corporate functions, including human resources, finance, procurement and information technology.          

Public Service.      Our Public Service industry group helps governments position themselves for the future by
transforming the way they deliver public services and engage with citizens. We provide services designed to help them increase the efficiency of their operations, improve service delivery to citizens and reduce their overall costs. We work primarily
with defense, revenue, human services, public health, postal, justice and public-safety authorities or agencies, and our clients are generally national, state or local-level government organizations, as well as pan-geographic organizations. Our
Public Service industry group represented approximately 74% of our Health   Public Service operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2011. In addition, our work with clients in the U.S. federal government represented approximately 32%
of our Health   Public Service operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2011.      
    Products        Our Products operating group serves a set of increasingly interconnected consumer-relevant industries. Our Products operating group comprises the following industry groups:   

Air, Freight   Travel Services.      Our Air, Freight   Travel Services industry group serves
airlines, freight and logistics companies, and travel services companies, including hotels, tour operators, rental car companies and cruise operators. We help clients increase organizational effectiveness by developing and implementing more
efficient networks, optimizing back-office functions, integrating supply chains, developing procurement strategies and building improved customer relationship management capabilities. We also offer industry-specific solutions, such as Navitaire for
the airline industry and a proprietary end-to-end shipment-management solution for the freight and logistics industry.          

Automotive.      Our Automotive industry group works with automotive companies, including original equipment
manufacturers and tier-one and tier-two supplier manufacturers. We have a range of end-to-end industry-specific offerings, including sales and marketing and performance engineering services.      

Consumer Goods   Services.      Our Consumer Goods   Services industry group serves food and
beverage, alcoholic beverage, household goods, personal care, tobacco, fashion/apparel, agribusiness and consumer health companies around the world. Our offerings are designed to help companies improve their performance by addressing critical
elements of success, including large-scale enterprise resource planning, channel and revenue management, multi-channel marketing,      
         5   

Table of Contents  

working-capital productivity improvement and supply chain collaboration. We also help clients build operating models that support end-to-end processes needed to improve business results. Our
Consumer Goods   Services industry group represented approximately 30% of our Products operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2011.          

Industrial Equipment.      Our Industrial Equipment industry group serves the industrial and electrical equipment,
automotive supplier, consumer durable and heavy equipment industries. We help our clients increase operating and supply chain efficiencies by improving processes and leveraging technology, and also help clients generate value from strategic mergers
and acquisitions. In addition, our Industrial Equipment industry group develops and deploys solutions in the areas of cloud computing, channel management, collaborative product design, remote field maintenance, enterprise application integration and
outsourcing.          

Infrastructure   Transportation Services.      Our Infrastructure   Transportation Services
industry group serves companies in the construction, infrastructure management (ports, airports, seaports and road-tolling facilities) and mass transportation industries. We help clients develop and implement strategies and solutions designed to
improve their information technology and customer relationship management capabilities, operate more efficient networks, integrate supply chains, develop procurement and electronic business marketplace strategies, and more effectively manage
maintenance, repair and overhaul processes and expenses all in the context of increasing priorities around mobility services and sustainability.          

Life Sciences.      Our Life Sciences industry group works with biopharmaceutical, medical technology and
life-sciences services companies. We provide services in large-scale business and technology transformation, business performance improvement, post-merger integration, and business process and technology outsourcing. Our life sciences expertise
covers the key business areas of research and development, marketing and sales, supply chain, manufacturing and select back-office functions.          

Retail.      Our Retail industry group serves a wide range of companies, including supermarkets, hardline retailers,
mass-merchandise discounters, department stores, and fashion and other specialty retailers. We provide offerings designed to help clients drive value and differentiation with consumers through analytics-based marketing and merchandising, optimized
integration of new channels, faster delivery and improved relevance of offerings to customers, effective use of advanced and core technologies and services, and improved cross-functional integration and operations.      
    Resources        Our Resources operating group serves the chemicals, energy, forest products, metals and mining, utilities and related industries. With market conditions driving energy companies to seek new ways of
creating value for shareholders; deregulation and climate change fundamentally reforming the utilities industry and yielding cross-border opportunities; and an intensive focus on productivity and portfolio management in the chemicals and natural
resources industries, we work with clients to create solutions designed to help them differentiate themselves in the marketplace and gain competitive advantage. We also work with clients across all industry segments on sustainability to help them
meet emission targets and increase energy efficiency. Our Resources operating group comprises the following industry groups:       

Chemicals.      Our Chemicals industry group works with a wide cross-section of industry segments, including
petrochemicals, specialty chemicals, polymers and plastics, gases and agricultural chemicals, among others. We help chemical companies develop and implement new      
         6   

Table of Contents  

business strategies, redesign business processes, manage complex change initiatives, and integrate processes and technologies to achieve higher levels of performance.

Energy.      Our Energy industry group serves a wide range of companies in the oil and gas industry, including
upstream, downstream, oil services and clean-energy companies. We help our clients optimize production, manage their hydrocarbon and non-hydrocarbon supply chains, streamline marketing operations and realize the potential of third-party
enterprise-wide technology solutions. Our Energy industry group represented approximately 30% of our Resources operating group s net revenues in fiscal 2011.      

Natural Resources.      Our Natural Resources industry group serves the metals, mining, forest products and building
materials industries. We help our clients which include mining companies in the coal, iron ore, copper and precious metals sectors; steel and aluminum producers; and lumber, pulp, papermaking, converting and packaging companies develop and
implement new business strategies, redesign business processes, manage complex change initiatives, and integrate processes and technologies to achieve higher levels of performance.      

Utilities.      Our Utilities industry group works with electric, gas and water utilities around the world to
respond to an evolving and highly competitive marketplace. We help utilities transform themselves from regulated, and sometimes state-owned, local entities to international deregulated corporations. We also develop diverse products and service
offerings designed to help our clients deliver higher levels of service to their customers. These offerings include customer relationship management, workforce enablement, smart-grid development, supply chain optimization, and trading and risk
management. We also provide a range of outsourced customer-care services to utilities and retail energy companies in North America. Our Utilities industry group represented approximately 35% of our Resources operating group s net revenues in
fiscal 2011.           Growth Platforms     
  Our management consulting, technology and business process outsourcing ( BPO ) growth platforms are the
skill-based innovation engines through which we build world-class skills and capabilities; develop our knowledge capital; and create, acquire and manage key assets central to the development of solutions for our clients. The professionals within
these areas work closely with those in our operating groups to develop and deliver integrated services and solutions to clients.        Management Consulting        Our management consulting
growth platform is responsible for the development and delivery of our strategic, operational, functional, industry, process and change consulting capabilities, working closely with the professionals in our operating groups and the other growth
platforms. Our management consulting professionals help large, complex organizations design and execute changes to their business and operating models, either for one or more critical business units or across the entire organization. This growth
platform comprises six function-based service areas, as well as industry-focused teams of management consulting professionals with deep skills in the numerous industry segments that we serve. The majority of management consulting professionals have
a primary focus on either one of the six service areas or on an industry, with a secondary focus on the other (i.e., industry or service area).      The six service areas are as follows:       

Customer Relationship Management.      The professionals in Customer Relationship Management ( CRM ) help
companies acquire, develop and retain more profitable customer relationships. We offer a full range of capabilities that address every aspect of CRM, including marketing, pricing strategy and profitability assessment, direct and indirect sales,
customer      
         7   

Table of Contents  

service, field support and customer contact operations. These capabilities include rigorous approaches to improving the return on marketing investment, methods for building insight into
customers  purchase habits and service preferences, tailoring offers and service treatment based upon that insight, and unique methods of optimizing the quality, cost and revenue impact of sales and service operations. We use these skills to
help our clients accelerate growth, improve marketing and sales productivity and reduce customer care costs thus increasing the value of their customer relationships and enhancing the economic value of their brands.

Finance   Enterprise Performance.      The professionals in Finance   Enterprise Performance work
with our clients  finance and business unit executives to develop financial transaction processing, corporate finance and business performance reporting capabilities. Among the services we provide are strategic consulting on the design and
structure of the finance function and the establishment of shared service centers. Our finance capability services also address revenue cycle management, billing, credit and collection effectiveness, electronic invoicing and settlement, tax
processing, treasury operations, trading operations, lending and debt recovery, and benchmarking. Our performance management services address shareholder value targeting, scorecard and performance metrics development, performance reporting solutions
and applied business analytics to improve profitability. Our professionals work with finance executives to develop and implement solutions designed to help them align their companies  investments with their business objectives and establish
security relating to the exchange of information with reporting institutions.          

Operations.      Operations is a new service area that was formed in September 2011. The professionals in Operations
work with clients across a broad range of industries to develop and implement measurable, lasting improvements in all aspects of operations to enable profitable growth in new and existing markets. Our professionals combine global industry expertise
and skills in a variety of areas, including operations and process transformation; sourcing and procurement; innovation and product development; manufacturing strategy and operations; service strategy and operations; integrated planning and
fulfillment; and supply chain education. We work with clients to help align underlying process and operating models to support business strategies; optimize global operations; support profitable product launches; and enhance the skills and
capabilities of the operations and supply chain workforce.          

Risk Management.      The professionals in Risk Management work with clients to develop risk management capabilities
to help protect and grow the economic value of their organizations. Our Risk Management services help our clients align business strategy and risk capabilities to evaluate market options and drive profitable growth; develop a risk-conscious culture
across their organizations; adapt to industry and geographic regulations to drive positive business impact; and develop capabilities to collect, model and analyze business information for better risk-based decision-making.

Strategy.      Our Strategy professionals combine their strategy and operating model experience to help clients turn
insights into results at both the enterprise and business unit level. With deep skills and capabilities in corporate strategy, corporate restructuring, growth and innovation strategies, mergers and acquisitions, and merger integration, we help
clients develop and execute pragmatic ways to transform organizations and drive sustained high performance.          

Talent   Organization.      The professionals in Talent   Organization work with clients on a wide
range of talent management, human resources, organizational effectiveness, human capital, learning and change issues to deliver improved business and operational results. Our integrated approach and end-to-end capabilities include services and
solutions in organization and change management, human resources administration, learning and collaboration,      
         8   

Table of Contents  

organizational performance management, talent management and overall transformation of key workforces. We help companies and governments improve the efficiency and effectiveness of talent and
organization capabilities while lowering associated costs; deliver improvements in employee, workforce and business performance; and transform organizations through project-, program- and enterprise-level change management.
        In addition to our function-based service areas, we have specialized teams that provide
industry-specific management consulting services, which draw from our functional service areas but are customized and adapted to each industry. The majority of our management consultants whether in a function-based service area or on an
industry management consulting team has a specific industry alignment, underscoring the strength of our industry assets and experience.        Technology        Our technology growth platform comprises
three service areas: systems integration consulting, technology consulting and information technology ( IT ) outsourcing.        Systems Integration Consulting        Our key systems
integration consulting services and solutions include:       

Enterprise Solutions and Enterprise Resource Planning ( ERP ).      We implement a variety of application
software including SAP and Oracle, among others to consolidate operations, streamline business processes, connect geographies and manage and exploit data to make more informed business decisions.      

Industry and Functional Solutions.      We provide clients with industry and functional solutions that streamline,
integrate and manage business processes, systems and information, based on other vendors  software assets or our own assets. These are typically  add-ons  to our clients  core ERP systems or software to support industry-unique
functions such as trading solutions, billing systems and health exchange solutions. From design to implementation, these end-to-end services help our clients improve analytics-based decision-making, financial management, customer service excellence,
supply chain management and human resource management.          

Information Management Services.      We provide services to help organizations manage the full range of their
information needs to improve data quality, enhance decision-making capabilities and meet compliance requirements. Our services include business intelligence; content management and portals; data management; and data quality solutions.

Cloud Computing.      We help clients use cloud computing to improve their IT efficiency and agility. Typically, we
use platforms and infrastructure such as Microsoft Azure, Salesforce Force, Amazon EC2 and Google Apps.          

Custom Solutions.      With deep skills and expertise in both J2EE (Java-based) and .NET technology architectures,
we work with clients to develop custom solutions that meet unique business needs, often using open-source technology products and platforms.          

Software as a Service ( SaaS ).      We help clients implement SaaS solutions to meet their business needs
with the added benefits of increasing flexibility and reducing total cost of ownership. Our SaaS methodology and toolset enables rapid, agile delivery of SaaS solutions across a wide range of services and leading SaaS solutions including
Salesforce.com, Workday and NetSuite.      
         9   

Table of Contents  

Mobility Services.      We provide mobility and embedded software services across a wide range of industries and
platforms, including Symbian, WinMo (Microsoft Windows Mobile), Windows Phone, Android, Blackberry, iPhone, Java, Linux and Meego. These are designed to help organizations tap the full potential of mobility across the business-to-employee,
business-to-consumer, business-to-business and machine-to-machine environments.          

Microsoft Solutions.      Together with our alliance partner Microsoft and our Avanade subsidiary, we develop and
deliver cost-efficient, innovative business solutions across the Microsoft platform and full set of software, leveraging our deep industry expertise and practical applications of leading-edge technologies. We have also helped a significant number of
clients implement Microsoft s BPOS (Business Productivity Online Standard Suite) and other cloud-based tools using Microsoft s Azure platform.      
    Technology Consulting     
  Our key technology consulting services and solutions include:   

IT Strategy.      We help client CEOs and CIOs link IT investments to business results and help manage those
investments to ensure that the planned business impact is achieved. We also help CIOs transform how IT works, both internally and with business partners, so that IT is  run like a business  to deliver high performance.

Infrastructure Consulting.      We provide solutions to help clients optimize their IT infrastructures while
reducing costs. From virtualization of servers and desktops, to data center operations engineering and enterprise network design and implementation, our services are designed to enable clients to rationalize, standardize, optimize, secure and
transform their IT infrastructures for improved performance of mission-critical business processes, applications and end-users.          

IT Security Consulting.      We help clients implement security tools and processes so they can become more agile in
response to changing market forces and evolving threats. Working with us, our clients are better able to secure data and applications, protect identities, address threats and vulnerabilities, and meet compliance demands while reducing costs and
improving efficiency.          

Application Modernization and Optimization.      We specialize in defining and executing strategies that transform
our clients  application portfolios into rationalized, flexible, cost-efficient and reliable assets. Our services and solutions help clients define and implement innovative approaches to extending the useful life of legacy applications at a
significantly reduced cost or help to retire platforms and replace them with more modern, sustainable solutions.           IT Outsourcing        Our approach to IT outsourcing goes
beyond traditional cost-cutting measures to help clients improve the total performance of application and infrastructure development and maintenance. We provide a full range of application outsourcing and infrastructure outsourcing services and
solutions:       

Application Outsourcing.      We provide a wide array of application outsourcing services under flexible
arrangements, managing custom or packaged software applications including enterprise-wide applications such as SAP and Oracle over their complete development and maintenance lifecycles. Our scope of services ranges from standardized,
discrete application outsourcing services including application testing, application management of enterprise-wide software programs, and capacity services to large-scale application enhancement and development for individual or multiple
applications, or an entire portfolio of applications.      
         10   

Table of Contents  

Infrastructure Outsourcing.      We provide ongoing management of clients  IT infrastructure capabilities and
functions, with expertise in six service areas: service desk; workplace services; data-center services; network services; security services; and IT spend management. We provide discrete skills (i.e., capacity services) as well as fully managed
services. Our services offer clients a more cost-effective, secure and responsive infrastructure that can be scaled and adapted to their business needs.      
    Business Process Outsourcing     
  Our business process outsourcing growth platform provides business process services that help clients drive business
value, achieve higher levels of performance and results, and/or reduce costs. Through our BPO services, we manage specific business processes or functions for clients, providing solutions that are more efficient and cost-effective than if the
functions were provided in-house while also providing business insight to drive business outcomes.      We offer
clients across all industries a variety of BPO services for specific business functions and/or processes, including finance and accounting, human resources, learning and procurement, among others. We also offer industry-specific BPO services
designed to address the unique needs of client organizations and deliver business outcomes. We provide these services on a global basis and across all industry sectors through our Global Delivery Network.   
   Global Delivery Model       A key Accenture differentiator is our strategic global delivery model, which allows us to draw on the benefits of using people and other resources from around the world including scalable,
standardized processes, methods and tools; specialized business process and technology skills; cost advantages; foreign-language fluency; proximity to clients; and time-zone advantages to deliver high-quality solutions. Emphasizing quality,
productivity, reduced risk, speed to market and predictability, our global delivery model enables us to provide clients with price-competitive services and solutions that drive higher levels of performance.   
  Our Global Delivery Network continues to be a competitive differentiator for us. We have more than 50 delivery centers
around the world. As of August 31, 2011, we had approximately 141,000 people in our network globally.       Alliances    
  We have sales and delivery alliances with companies whose capabilities complement our own, either by, among other things,
enhancing a service offering, delivering a new technology or helping us extend our services to new geographies. By combining our alliance partners  products and services with our own capabilities and expertise, we create innovative, high-value
business solutions for our clients. Most of our alliances are non-exclusive. These alliances can generate significant revenues from services to implement our alliance partners  products. We also receive some direct payments, which are not
material to our business, from our alliance partners as compensation for marketing and other assistance.       Research and Innovation
      We are committed to developing leading-edge ideas. Research and innovation have been major factors in our
success, and we believe they will help us continue to grow in the future. We use our investment in research and development on which we spent $503 million, $384 million and $435 million in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively to help create, commercialize and disseminate innovative business strategies and technology solutions.   
         11   

Table of Contents  

   Our research and innovation program is designed to generate early insights
into how knowledge can be harnessed to create innovative business solutions for our clients and to develop business strategies with significant value. One component of this is our research and development organization, Accenture Technology
Labs, which identifies and develops new technologies that we believe will be the drivers of our clients  growth and enable them to be first to market with unique capabilities.  
  We also promote the creation of knowledge capital and thought leadership through the Accenture Institute for High
Performance. In addition, we spend a significant portion of our research and development investment directly through our operating groups and our consulting, technology and outsourcing growth platforms to develop market-ready solutions for our
clients.       Employees       Our most important asset is our people. The diverse and global makeup of our workforce enables us to serve our diverse and global client base. We are deeply committed to the continued development of our
employees, who receive significant and focused technical, functional, industry, managerial and leadership skill development and training appropriate for their roles and levels within our company throughout their careers with us. We seek to reinforce
our employees  commitments to our clients, culture and values through a comprehensive performance management system and a career philosophy that rewards both individual performance and teamwork. We strive to maintain a work environment that
reinforces collaboration, motivation and innovation and is consistent with our core values and Code of Business Ethics.      As of August 31, 2011, we had approximately 236,000 employees worldwide.       Competition
      We operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing global marketplace and compete with a variety of
organizations that offer services competitive with those we offer. Our competitors include:       

off-shore service providers in lower-cost locations, particularly in India, the Philippines and China, that offer services similar to those we
offer, often at highly competitive prices and on more aggressive terms;          

large multinational providers, including the service arms of large global technology providers (hardware and software), that offer some or all of
the services that we do;          

niche solution or service providers or local competitors that compete with us in a specific geographic market, industry segment or service area,
including companies that provide new or alternative products, services or delivery models;          

accounting firms that are expanding or building their provision of some consulting services, including through acquisitions; and

in-house departments of large corporations that use their own resources, rather than engage an outside firm for the types of services we provide.
        Our revenues are derived primarily from Fortune Global 500 and Fortune 1000 companies,
medium-sized companies, governments, government agencies and other enterprises. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the industries in which we compete include:   

skills and capabilities of people;          

innovative service and product offerings;          

ability to add business value and improve performance;      
         12   

Table of Contents  

reputation and client references;          

price;          

ability to deliver results reliably and on a timely basis;      

scope of services;          

service delivery approach;          

technical and industry expertise;          

quality of services and solutions;          

availability of appropriate resources; and          

global reach and scale.         Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive basis.       Intellectual Property
      We provide value to our clients based in part on a differentiated range of proprietary inventions,
methodologies, software, reusable knowledge capital, and other intellectual property. We recognize the increasing value of intellectual property in the marketplace and create, harvest, and protect this intellectual property. We leverage patent,
trade secret, copyright and trademark laws as well as contractual arrangements to protect our intellectual property. We have also established policies to respect the intellectual property rights of third parties, such as Accenture s clients,
partners, and others.      As of August 31, 2011, we had 2,718 patent applications pending in the United
States and other jurisdictions and had been issued 600 U.S. patents and 524 non-U.S. patents.      Trademarks
appearing in this report are the trademarks or registered trademarks of Accenture Global Services Ltd or third parties, as applicable.   
   Organizational Structure       On September 1, 2009, Accenture Ltd completed a transaction in which Accenture plc, organized in Ireland, became the parent holding company of Accenture. This transaction is described below under
  History.       Accenture plc is an Irish public limited company with no material assets other than
Class I common shares in its subsidiary, Accenture SCA, a Luxembourg partnership limited by shares ( Accenture SCA ). Accenture plc s only business is to hold these shares. Accenture plc owns a majority voting interest in
Accenture SCA. As the general partner of Accenture SCA and as a result of Accenture plc s majority voting interest in Accenture SCA, Accenture plc controls Accenture SCA s management and operations and consolidates Accenture SCA s
results in its Consolidated Financial Statements. We operate our business through subsidiaries of Accenture SCA. Accenture SCA generally reimburses Accenture plc for its expenses but does not pay Accenture plc any fees. Accenture plc was elected the
general partner of Accenture SCA in place of Accenture Ltd at the November 16, 2009 shareholder meeting of Accenture SCA.   
    History        Prior to our transition to a corporate structure in fiscal 2001, we operated as a series of related partnerships and corporations under the control of our partners. In connection with our transition to a
corporate structure, our partners generally exchanged all of their interests in these partnerships and corporations for Accenture Ltd Class A common shares or, in the case of partners in certain countries,
  
         13   

Table of Contents  

Accenture SCA Class I common shares or exchangeable shares issued by Accenture Canada Holdings Inc., an indirect subsidiary of Accenture SCA. Generally, partners who received Accenture SCA
Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares also received a corresponding number of Accenture Ltd Class X common shares, which entitled their holders to vote at Accenture Ltd shareholder meetings but did not
carry any economic rights. The combination of the Accenture Ltd Class X common shares and the Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares gave these partners substantially similar economic and
governance rights as holders of Accenture Ltd Class A common shares.      In fiscal 2005, we replaced the
internal use of the  partner  title with the more comprehensive  senior executive  title and applied the  senior executive  title to our highest-level employees, including those previously referred to as partners.
However, for proper context, we continue to use the term  partner  in certain situations and particularly when discussing our reorganization and the period prior to our incorporation.   
  On June 10, 2009, Accenture plc was incorporated in Ireland, as a public limited company, in order to effect moving
the place of incorporation of our parent holding company from Bermuda to Ireland (the  Transaction ). On August 5, 2009, the shareholders of Accenture Ltd, our predecessor holding company, voted in favor of the Transaction. The
Transaction was subsequently completed on September 1, 2009, following approval from the Supreme Court of Bermuda, at which time Accenture Ltd became a wholly owned subsidiary of Accenture plc and Accenture plc became our parent holding
company. In the Transaction, all of the outstanding Class A and Class X common shares of Accenture Ltd were cancelled and Accenture plc issued Class A and Class X ordinary shares on a one-for-one basis to the holders of the cancelled
Accenture Ltd Class A and Class X common shares, as applicable (and cash for any fractional shares). Accenture Ltd was dissolved on December 29, 2009.      Class A ordinary shares of the Irish company, Accenture plc, began trading on the New York Stock Exchange on September 1, 2009 under the symbol  ACN,  the same symbol under which
Class A common shares of Accenture Ltd, its predecessor, were previously listed.      The Consolidated
Financial Statements included in this report with respect to periods prior to September 1, 2009 reflect the consolidated operations of Accenture Ltd (the predecessor registrant of Accenture plc) and its subsidiaries. The Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this report reflect the ownership interests in Accenture SCA and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. held by certain of our current and former senior executives as noncontrolling interests. The noncontrolling ownership interests
percentage was 9% as of August 31, 2011.        Accenture plc Class A and Class X Ordinary Shares
       Each Class A ordinary share and each Class X ordinary share of Accenture plc entitles its
holder to one vote on all matters submitted to a vote of shareholders of Accenture plc. A Class X ordinary share does not, however, entitle its holder to receive dividends or to receive payments upon a liquidation of Accenture plc. As described
above under   History,  Class X ordinary shares generally provide the holders of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares with a vote at Accenture plc shareholder meetings that is
equivalent to the voting rights held by Accenture plc Class A ordinary shareholders, while their economic rights consist of interests in Accenture SCA Class I common shares or in Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares.   
  Under its memorandum and articles of association, Accenture plc may redeem, at its option, any Class X ordinary share
for a redemption price equal to the nominal value of the Class X ordinary share, or $0.0000225 per share. Accenture plc, as successor to Accenture Ltd, has separately agreed with the original holders of Accenture SCA Class I common shares
and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares not to redeem any Class X ordinary share of such holder if the redemption would reduce the number of Class X ordinary shares held by that holder to a number that is less than the
  
         14   

Table of Contents  

number of Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares owned by that holder. Accenture plc will redeem Class X ordinary shares upon the
redemption or exchange of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares so that the aggregate number of Class X ordinary shares outstanding at any time does not exceed the aggregate number of
Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares outstanding. Class X ordinary shares are not transferable without the consent of Accenture plc.   
  A transfer of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares effected by transfer of a book-entry interest in The Depository
Trust Company will not be subject to Irish stamp duty. Other transfers of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares may be subject to Irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the price paid or the market value of the Class A ordinary
shares acquired, if higher) payable by the buyer.        Accenture SCA Class I Common Shares     
  Only Accenture and our current and former senior executives and their permitted transferees hold Accenture SCA
Class I common shares. Each Class I common share entitles its holder to one vote on all matters submitted to the shareholders of Accenture SCA and entitles its holder to dividends and liquidation payments. As of October 11, 2011,
Accenture holds a voting interest of approximately 91% of the aggregate outstanding Accenture SCA Class I common shares entitled to vote, with the remaining 9% of the voting interest held by our current and former senior executives and their
permitted transferees.      Accenture SCA is obligated, at the option of the holder, to redeem any outstanding
Accenture SCA Class I common share at a redemption price per share generally equal to its current market value as determined in accordance with Accenture SCA s articles of association. Under Accenture SCA s articles of association,
the market value of a Class I common share that is not subject to transfer restrictions will be deemed to be equal to (i) the average of the high and low sales prices of an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share as reported on the New
York Stock Exchange (or on such other designated market on which the Class A ordinary shares trade), net of customary brokerage and similar transaction costs, or (ii) if Accenture plc sells its Class A ordinary shares on the date that
the redemption price is determined (other than in a transaction with any employee or an affiliate or pursuant to a preexisting obligation), the weighted average sales price of an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share on the New York Stock
Exchange (or on such other market on which the Class A ordinary shares primarily trade), net of customary brokerage and similar transaction costs. Accenture SCA may, at its option, pay this redemption price with cash or by delivering Accenture
plc Class A ordinary shares on a one-for-one basis. In order to maintain Accenture plc s economic interest in Accenture SCA, Accenture plc generally will acquire additional Accenture SCA common shares each time additional Accenture plc
Class A ordinary shares are issued.      Except in the case of a redemption of Class I common shares or a
transfer of Class I common shares to Accenture plc or one of its subsidiaries, Accenture SCA s articles of association provide that Accenture SCA Class I common shares may be transferred only with the consent of the general partner of
Accenture SCA. In addition, all holders of Class I common shares (except Accenture) are precluded from having their shares redeemed by Accenture SCA or transferred to Accenture SCA, Accenture plc or a subsidiary of Accenture plc at any time or
during any period when Accenture SCA determines, based on the advice of counsel, that there is material non-public information that may affect the average price per share of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, if the redemption would be
prohibited by applicable law, during an underwritten offering due to an underwriters lock-up or during the period from the announcement of a tender offer by Accenture SCA or its affiliates for Accenture SCA Class I common shares until the
expiration of ten business days after the termination of the tender offer (other than to tender the holder s Accenture SCA Class I common shares in the tender offer).   
         15   

Table of Contents  

     Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. Exchangeable Shares     
  Holders of Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares may exchange their shares for Accenture plc Class A
ordinary shares at any time on a one-for-one basis. Accenture may, at its option, satisfy this exchange with cash at a price per share generally equal to the market price of an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share at the time of the exchange.
Each exchangeable share of Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. entitles its holder to receive distributions equal to any distributions to which an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share entitles its holder. The exchange of all of the outstanding
Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares would not have a material impact on the equity ownership position of Accenture or the other shareholders of Accenture SCA.   
     ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS    
  In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors which
could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations (including revenues and profitability) or stock price. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that may broadly affect companies,
including us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price.   
    Our results of operations could be adversely affected by volatile, negative or uncertain economic conditions and the effects of
these conditions on our clients  businesses and levels of business activity.        Global economic
conditions affect our clients  businesses and the markets they serve, and volatile, negative or uncertain economic conditions may have an adverse effect on our revenue growth and profitability. Volatile, negative or uncertain economic
conditions in our significant markets could undermine business confidence, both in those markets and other markets and cause our clients to reduce or defer their spending on new technologies or initiatives or terminate existing contracts, which
would negatively affect our business. Growth in the markets we serve could be at a slow rate, or could stagnate, for an extended period of time. Differing economic conditions and patterns of economic growth and contraction in the geographical
regions in which we operate and the industries we serve may affect demand for our services. A material portion of our revenues and profitability is derived from our clients in Europe and North America. Weakening in these markets as a result of high
government deficits, credit downgrades or otherwise, could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Ongoing economic volatility and uncertainty affects our business in a number of other ways, including making it more difficult to
accurately forecast client demand beyond the short term and effectively build our revenue and resource plans, particularly in consulting. This could result, for example, in us not having the level of appropriate personnel where they are needed, and
could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations.        Our business depends on generating and
maintaining ongoing, profitable client demand for our services and solutions, and a significant reduction in such demand could materially affect our results of operations.     
  Our revenue and profitability depend on the demand for our services with favorable margins, which could be negatively
affected by numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control and unrelated to our work product. As described above, volatile, negative or uncertain global economic conditions could negatively affect client demand for our services and
solutions. In addition, developments in the industries we serve, which may be rapid, could shift demand to services and solutions where we are less competitive, or might require significant investment by us to upgrade, enhance or expand our services
  
         16   

Table of Contents  

and solutions to meet that demand. Companies in the industries we serve sometimes seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. If one of
our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for its consulting, systems integration and technology, or outsourcing services, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional
work if we are not successful in generating new opportunities from the merger or consolidation. Many of our consulting contracts are less than 12 months in duration, and these contracts typically permit a client to terminate the agreement with
as little as 30 days notice. Longer-term, larger and more complex contracts, such as the majority of our outsourcing contracts, generally require a longer notice period for termination and often include an early termination charge to be paid to
us, but this charge might not be sufficient to cover our costs or make up for anticipated profits lost upon termination of the contract. If a client is dissatisfied with our services and we are unable to effectively respond to its needs, the client
might terminate existing contracts, or reduce or eliminate spending on the services and solutions we provide. Additionally, a client could choose not to retain us for additional stages of a project, try to renegotiate the terms of its contract or
cancel or delay additional planned work. When contracts are terminated or not renewed, we lose the anticipated revenues and it may take significant time to replace the level of revenues lost. Consequently, our results of operations in subsequent
periods could be materially lower than expected. The specific business or financial condition of a client, changes in management and changes in a client s strategy also are all factors that can result in terminations, cancellations or delays.
For example, in fiscal 2009, we experienced a higher volume of contract terminations and restructurings as a result of challenging economic conditions and clients being acquired, which negatively affected our results of operations. It could also
result in pressure to reduce the cost of our services. For example, during fiscal years 2009 and 2010, challenging economic conditions led to our moving work more quickly into our Global Delivery Network than planned in order to respond to client
demand to reduce costs, which resulted in our revenues being less than anticipated.        If we are unable to keep our supply
of skills and resources in balance with client demand around the world and attract and retain professionals with strong leadership skills, our business, the utilization rate of our professionals and our results of operations may be materially
adversely affected.        Our success is dependent, in large part, on our ability to keep our supply of
skills and resources in balance with client demand around the world and our ability to attract and retain personnel with the knowledge and skills to lead our business globally. Experienced personnel in our industry are in high demand, and
competition for talent is intense. We must hire, retain and motivate appropriate numbers of talented people with diverse skills in order to serve clients across the globe, respond quickly to rapid and ongoing technology and industry developments and
grow and manage our business. For example, if we are unable to hire or continually train our employees to keep pace with the rapid and continuing changes in technology and the industries we serve, we may not be able to develop and deliver new
services and solutions to fulfill client demand. As we expand our services and solutions, we also hire and must retain an increasing number of professionals with different skills and professional expectations than the majority of our personnel. If
we are unable to successfully integrate, motivate and retain these professionals, our ability to continue to secure work in those industries may suffer.      We are particularly dependent on retaining our senior executives and other experienced managers, and if we are unable to do so, our ability to develop new business and effectively lead our current
projects could be jeopardized. We depend on identifying, developing and retaining key employees to provide leadership and direction for our businesses. This includes developing talent and leadership capabilities in emerging markets, where the depth
of skilled employees is often limited and competition for these resources is intense. Our geographic expansion strategy in emerging markets depends on our ability to attract, retain and integrate both local business leaders and people with the
appropriate delivery skills.   
         17   

Table of Contents  

   Similarly, our profitability depends on our ability to effectively utilize
personnel with the right mix of skills and experience to perform services for our clients, including our ability to transition employees to new assignments on a timely basis. If we are unable to effectively mobilize our employees globally on a
timely basis to fulfill the needs of our clients, our ability to perform our work profitably could suffer. If the utilization rate of our professionals is too high, it could have an adverse effect on employee engagement and attrition, the quality of
the work performed as well as our ability to staff projects. If our utilization rate is too low, our profitability and the engagement of our employees could suffer. The costs associated with recruiting and training employees are significant. The
mobility of our employees also contributes to the effective operation of our global business model. Increased regulation of immigration or work visas, including limitations placed on the number of visas granted, limitations on the type
of work performed or location in which it can be performed, and new or higher minimum salary requirements, could make it more difficult to deploy our employees on client engagements and could increase costs.   
  There is a risk that at certain points in time and in certain geographical regions, we will find it difficult to hire and
retain a sufficient number of employees with the skills or backgrounds to meet current and/or future demand. In these cases, we might need to redeploy existing personnel or increase our reliance on subcontractors to fill certain labor needs, and if
not done effectively, our profitability could be negatively impacted. Additionally, if demand were to escalate at a high rate, we may need to adjust our compensation practices, which could put upward pressure on our costs and adversely affect our
profitability if we are unable to recover these increased costs. At certain times, however, we may also have more personnel than we need in certain skill sets or geographies. In these situations, we must evaluate voluntary attrition and use
increased involuntary terminations and reduced levels of new hiring as means to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand in those geographies.        The consulting and outsourcing markets are highly competitive, and we might not be able to compete effectively.     
  The markets in which we offer our services are highly competitive. Our competitors include:   

off-shore service providers in lower-cost locations, particularly in India, the Philippines and China, that offer services similar to those we
offer, often at highly competitive prices and on more aggressive contractual terms;          

large multinational providers, including the services arms of large global technology providers (hardware and software), that offer some or all of
the services that we do;          

niche solution or service providers or local competitors that compete with us in a specific geographic market, industry segment or service area,
including companies that provide new or alternative products, services or delivery models;          

accounting firms that are expanding or building their provision of some consulting services, including through acquisitions; and

in-house departments of large corporations that use their own resources, rather than engage an outside firm for the types of services we provide.
        Some competitors are companies that may have greater financial, marketing or other resources
than we do and, therefore, may be better able to compete for new work and skilled professionals.      Even if we
have potential offerings that address marketplace or client needs, competitors may be more successful at selling similar services they offer, including to companies that are our clients. Some competitors are more established in certain emerging
markets, and that may make our geographic expansion strategy in these markets more challenging. Additionally, competitors may also offer more aggressive contractual terms, which may affect our ability to win work. Our future performance is largely
  
         18   

Table of Contents  

dependent on our ability to compete successfully in the markets we currently serve, while expanding into additional markets. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose market share
and clients to competitors, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations.      In addition, we
may face greater competition due to consolidation of companies in the technology sector, through strategic mergers or acquisitions. Consolidation activity may result in new competitors with greater scale, a broader footprint, or offerings that are
more attractive than ours. For example, there has been a continuing trend toward consolidation among hardware manufacturers, software developers and vendors, and service providers, which has resulted in the convergence of products and services. Over
time, our access to such products and services may be reduced as a result of this consolidation. Additionally, vertically integrated companies are able to offer as a single provider, more integrated services (software and hardware) to clients than
we can, and therefore may represent a more attractive alternative to clients. If buyers of services favor using a single provider for an integrated technology stack, such buyers may direct more business to such competitors, and this could materially
adversely affect our competitive position and our results of operations.        We could have liability or our reputation
could be damaged if we fail to protect client and Accenture data or information systems as obligated by law or contract or if our information systems are breached.     
  We are dependent on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information and
to communicate among our locations around the world and with our clients, alliance partners, and vendors. The breadth and complexity of this infrastructure increases the potential risk of security breaches. Such breaches could lead to shutdowns or
disruptions of our systems and potential unauthorized disclosure of confidential information.      In providing
services to clients, we often manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or Accenture data, including personal data. As a result, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as the
national laws implementing the European Union Directive on Data Protection and various U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of health or other personally identifiable information. These laws and regulations are increasing in
complexity and number, change frequently and sometimes conflict among the various countries in which we operate. If any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to
client or Accenture data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines, and/or criminal prosecution in one or more jurisdictions. These monetary
damages might not be subject to a contractual limit of liability or an exclusion of consequential or indirect damages and could be significant. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or Accenture data, whether through systems
failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our information systems or those we develop for our clients, whether by our employees or
third parties, including an attack by computer programmers and hackers who may develop and deploy viruses, worms or other malicious software programs, could result in negative publicity, legal liability and damage to our reputation and could have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations.        Our Global Delivery Network is increasingly concentrated in India
and the Philippines, which may expose us to operational risks.        Our business model is dependent on our
Global Delivery Network, which includes Accenture personnel based at more than 50 delivery centers around the world. While these delivery centers are located throughout the world, we have based large portions of our delivery network in India, where
we   
         19   

Table of Contents  

have the largest number of people in our delivery network located, and the Philippines, where we have the second largest number of people located. Concentrating our Global Delivery Network in
these locations presents a number of operational risks, many of which are beyond our control. India and the Philippines have experienced natural disasters and are subject to pandemics, severe weather conditions, including earthquakes, volcanoes,
cyclones, typhoons, floods and other storms, which may occur again and could impair the ability of our people to safely travel to and work in our facilities. Additionally, both countries have experienced political instability and worker strikes.
India in particular has experienced civil unrest and hostilities with neighboring countries, including Pakistan. Military activity or civil hostilities in the future, as well as terrorist activities, natural disasters and other conditions, which are
described more fully below, could significantly disrupt our ability to perform work through our delivery centers. Our business continuity and disaster recovery plans may not be effective, particularly if catastrophic events occur. If any of these
circumstances occurs, we have a greater risk that the interruptions in communications with our clients and other Accenture locations and personnel, and any down-time in important processes we operate for clients, could result in a material adverse
effect on our results of operations and our reputation in the marketplace.        As a result of our geographically diverse
operations and our growth strategy to continue geographic expansion, we are more susceptible to certain risks.        We have offices and operations in more than 200 cities in 54 countries around the world. One aspect of our growth strategy is to continue to expand globally, and particularly to seek significant growth in
our priority emerging markets. We cannot guarantee that our growth strategy will be successful. If we are unable to manage the risks of our global operations and geographic expansion strategy, including fluctuations in foreign exchange and inflation
rates, international hostilities, natural disasters, security breaches, failure to maintain compliance with our clients  control requirements and multiple legal and regulatory systems, our results of operations and ability to grow could be
materially adversely affected. In addition, emerging markets generally involve greater financial and operational risks, such as those described below, than our more mature markets. Negative or uncertain political climates in countries or geographies
where we operate could also adversely affect us.       Our results of operations could be materially adversely
affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.     Although we report our results of operations in U.S. dollars, a majority of our net revenues is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
Unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.       

Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, expenses and income, as well as assets
and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies will affect our net revenues, operating income and
the value of balance-sheet items originally denominated in other currencies. These changes cause our growth in consolidated earnings stated in U.S. dollars to be higher or lower than our growth in local currency when compared against other
periods.          

As we continue to leverage our global delivery model, more of our expenses are incurred in currencies other than those in which we bill for the
related services. An increase in the value of certain currencies, such as the Indian rupee, against the U.S. dollar could increase costs for delivery of services at off-shore sites by increasing labor and other costs that are denominated in
local currency. There can be no assurance that our contractual provisions will offset their impact, or that our currency hedging activities, which are designed to partially offset this impact, will be successful. This could result in a decrease in
the profitability of our contracts that are utilizing      
         20   

Table of Contents  

delivery center resources. In addition, our currency hedging activities are themselves subject to risk. These include risks related to counterparty performance under hedging contracts and risks
related to currency fluctuations. We also face risks that extreme economic conditions, political instability, or hostilities or disasters of the type described below could impact our underlying exposures, perhaps eliminating them. Such an event
could lead to losses being recognized on the currency hedges then in place, not offset by anticipated changes in the underlying hedge exposure.      
   We could be subject to strict restrictions on the movement of cash and the exchange of foreign
currencies.     In some countries, we could be subject to strict restrictions on the movement of cash and the exchange of foreign currencies, which would limit our ability to use this cash across our global operations. This
risk could increase as we continue our geographic expansion in emerging markets, which are more likely to impose these restrictions than more established markets.   
   International hostilities, terrorist activities, natural disasters, pandemics and infrastructure disruptions could
prevent us from effectively serving our clients and thus adversely affect our results of operations.     Acts of terrorist violence, political unrest, armed regional and international hostilities and international responses to
these hostilities, natural disasters, like the earthquake and resulting tsunami in Japan in March 2011, global health risks or pandemics or the threat of or perceived potential for these events could have a negative impact on us. These events could
adversely affect our clients  levels of business activity and precipitate sudden significant changes in regional and global economic conditions and cycles. These events also pose significant risks to our people and to physical facilities and
operations around the world, whether the facilities are ours or those of our alliance partners or clients. By disrupting communications and travel and increasing the difficulty of obtaining and retaining highly skilled and qualified personnel, these
events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver services to our clients. Extended disruptions of electricity, other public utilities or network services at our facilities, as well as system failures at, or security breaches in, our
facilities or systems, could also adversely affect our ability to serve our clients. We might be unable to protect our people, facilities and systems against all such occurrences. We generally do not have insurance for losses and interruptions
caused by terrorist attacks, conflicts and wars. If these disruptions prevent us from effectively serving our clients, our results of operations could be adversely affected.   
   Our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violation
of these regulations could harm our business.     We are subject to numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters as diverse as anticorruption, import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions,
tariffs, taxation, sanctions, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, anti-competition, data privacy and labor relations. This includes in emerging markets where legal systems may be less developed or
familiar to us. Compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly, time-consuming and requires significant resources. Violations of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines, criminal
sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business and damage to our reputation. Violations of these regulations in connection with the performance of our obligations to our clients also could result in liability for significant
monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity and other reputational damage, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations. Due
to the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws might be insufficient to protect our rights.      In particular, in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate and/or seek to expand, practices in the local business community might not conform to international business standards
and could violate anticorruption laws, or regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act 2010. Our employees, subcontractors, agents, alliance or joint venture partners
  
         21   

Table of Contents  

and other third parties with which we associate, could take actions that violate policies or procedures designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance or applicable anticorruption laws or
regulations. Violations of these laws or regulations by us, our employees or any of these third parties could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions (whether or not we participated or knew about the actions leading to the violations),
including fines or penalties, disgorgement of profits and suspension or disqualification from work, including U.S. federal contracting, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, including our results of operations and our
reputation.      Changes in laws and regulations could also mandate significant and costly changes to the way we
implement our services and solutions or could impose additional taxes on our services and solutions. For example, because outsourcing and systems integration represent a significant portion of our business, changes in laws and regulations to limit
using off-shore resources in connection with our government work, which have been proposed from time to time in various jurisdictions, could adversely affect our results of operations. Such changes may result in contracts being terminated, or work
being transferred on-shore, resulting in greater costs to us and could have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future work from government clients.        Our results of operations could materially suffer if we are not able to obtain sufficient pricing to enable us to meet our profitability expectations.     
  If we are not able to obtain sufficient pricing for our services to enable us to meet our profitability, our revenues and
profitability expectations could materially suffer. The rates we are able to charge for our services are affected by a number of factors, including:       

general economic and political conditions;          

the competitive environment in our industry, as described below;      

our clients  desire to reduce their costs;          

our ability to accurately estimate, attain and sustain contract revenues, margins and cash flows over the full contract period, which includes our
ability to estimate the impact of inflation and foreign exchange on our margins over long-term contracts; and          

procurement practices of clients and their use of third-party advisors.      
  The competitive environment in our industry affects our ability to obtain favorable pricing in a number of ways, all of
which could have a material negative impact on our results of operations. The less we are able to differentiate our services and solutions and/or clearly convey the value of our services and solutions, the more risk we have that they will be seen as
commodities, with price being the driving factor in selecting a service provider. In addition, the introduction of new services or products by competitors could reduce our ability to obtain favorable pricing for the services or products we offer.
Increased competition from companies located in lower-cost locations has reduced the prices we can charge for some of our services, particularly in the outsourcing and systems integration markets. Competitors may be willing, at times, to price
contracts lower than us in an effort to enter the market or increase market share. Further, if competitors develop and implement methodologies that yield greater efficiency and productivity, they may be able to offer services similar to ours at
lower prices.        If our pricing estimates do not accurately anticipate the cost, risk and complexity of performing our
work or third parties upon which we rely do not meet their commitments, then our contracts could have delivery inefficiencies and be unprofitable.        Our pricing for our services and solutions is highly dependent on our forecasts and predictions about the level of effort and cost necessary to deliver such services and solutions, which might be based on
  
         22   

Table of Contents  

limited data and could turn out to be materially inaccurate. If we do not accurately estimate the effort, costs or timing for meeting our contractual commitments and/or completing projects to a
client s satisfaction, our contracts could yield lower profit margins than planned, or be unprofitable. Our pricing, cost and profit margin estimates on our consulting work and frequently on our outsourcing work, include anticipated long-term
cost savings for the client that we expect to achieve and sustain over the life of the contract. We may fail to accurately assess the risks associated with potential contracts. This could result in existing contracts and contracts entered into in
the future being less profitable than expected or unprofitable, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability.      If we experience unanticipated delivery difficulties due to our management, the failure of third parties to meet their commitments, or for any other reason, our contracts could yield lower profit margins
than planned or be unprofitable. In particular, large and complex arrangements often require that we utilize subcontractors or that our services and solutions incorporate or coordinate with the software, systems or infrastructure requirements of
other vendors and service providers, including companies with which we have alliances. Our profitability depends on the ability of these subcontractors, vendors and service providers to deliver their products and services in a timely manner and in
accordance with the project requirements, as well as on our effective oversight of their performance. Some of this work involves new technologies, which may not work as intended or may take more effort to implement than initially predicted. In some
cases, these subcontractors are small firms, and they might not have the resources or experience to successfully integrate their services or products with large-scale projects or enterprises. In addition, certain client work requires the use of
unique and complex structures and alliances, some of which require us to assume responsibility for the performance of third parties whom we do not control. Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to perform and subject us to
additional liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on relationships with our clients and on our results of operations.        Our work with government clients exposes us to additional risks inherent in the government contracting environment.     
  Our clients include national, provincial, state and local governmental entities. Our government work carries various risks
inherent in the government contracting process. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following:       

Government entities typically fund projects through appropriated monies. While these projects are often planned and executed as multi-year projects,
the government entities usually reserve the right to change the scope of or terminate these projects for lack of approved funding and at their convenience. Changes in government or political developments, including budget deficits, shortfalls,
uncertainties or other debt constraints, such as those recently experienced in the U.S. and certain countries in Europe, could result in our projects being reduced in price or scope or terminated altogether, which also could limit our recovery of
incurred costs, reimbursable expenses and profits on work completed prior to the termination. Furthermore, if insufficient funding is appropriated to the government entity to cover termination costs, we may not be able to fully recover our
investments.          

Government entities, particularly in the United States, often reserve the right to audit our contract costs and conduct inquiries and investigations
of our business practices with respect to government contracts. If these audits conclude that the costs are not reimbursable, then we will not be allowed to bill for them, or the cost must be refunded to the government if it has already been paid to
us. Findings from an audit also could result in our being required to prospectively adjust previously agreed rates for our work, may affect our future profitability or may prevent us, by operation of law or in practice, from receiving new government
contracts for some period of time. In the U.S., pending final audit determinations, the government may require us not to bill a      
         23   

Table of Contents  

percentage of our costs, and we may be subject to such requirement with respect to current open audits or future audits. U.S. government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency,
routinely audit our contract costs, including allocated indirect costs and compliance with the Cost Accounting Standards, and conduct system reviews, investigations and other inquiries of our performance and business practices with respect to our
government contracts. In addition, if the government auditors find, and the Defense Contract Management Agency (which has administrative authority over our U.S. government contracts) concludes, that certain costs are not reimbursable, have not been
properly determined or are based on outdated estimates of our work, then we will not be allowed to bill for such costs or may have to refund money that has already been paid to us.      

If a government client discovers improper or illegal activities in the course of audits or investigations, we may become subject to various civil
and criminal penalties, including those under the civil U.S. False Claims Act, and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing
business with other agencies of that government. The inherent limitations of internal controls may not prevent or detect all improper or illegal activities.      

U.S. government contracting regulations impose strict compliance and disclosure obligations. Disclosure is required if certain company personnel
have knowledge of  credible evidence  of a violation of federal criminal laws involving fraud, conflict of interest, bribery or improper gratuity, a violation of the civil U.S. False Claims Act or receipt of a significant overpayment from
the government. Failure to make required disclosures could be a basis for suspension and/or debarment from federal government contracting in addition to breach of the specific contract and could also impact contracting beyond the U.S. federal level.
Reported matters also could lead to audits or investigations and other civil, criminal or administrative sanctions.          

Because we are incorporated in Ireland, our U.S. federal practice operates under a separate agreement with the U.S. federal government in order to
perform classified work for the U.S. government. We may be required by the government to amend the agreement from time to time, and we are currently in discussions with the U.S. government regarding proposed amendments. Depending on the outcome of
those discussions, we might be required to adjust our current operations and/or incur additional costs in order to continue to perform certain services for the U.S. government, and we cannot predict at this time the total costs or whether the
changes will adversely affect us.          

Government contracts, and the proceedings surrounding them, are often subject to more extensive scrutiny and publicity than contracts with
commercial clients. Negative publicity related to our government contracts, including an allegation of improper or illegal activity, regardless of its accuracy, may adversely affect our reputation.      

Political and economic factors such as pending elections, the outcome of recent elections, changes in leadership among key executive or legislative
decision makers, revisions to governmental tax or other policies and reduced tax revenues can affect the number and terms of new government contracts signed or the speed at which new contracts are signed, decrease future levels of spending and
authorizations for programs that we bid, shift spending priorities to programs in areas for which we do not provide services and/or lead to changes in enforcement or how compliance with relevant rules or laws is assessed.

Terms and conditions of government contracts tend to be more onerous and are often more difficult to negotiate than those for commercial contracts.
For example, government contracts often contain high or unlimited liability for breaches, less favorable payment terms, and sometimes require us to take on liability for the performance of third parties.      
         24   

Table of Contents  

Legislative proposals remain under consideration or could be proposed in the future, which, if enacted, could limit or even prohibit our eligibility
to be awarded state or federal government contracts in the United States in the future. Various U.S. federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced and/or enacted in recent years that deny government contracts to certain U.S. companies
that reincorporate or have reincorporated outside the United States. While Accenture was not a U.S. company that reincorporated outside the United States, it is possible that these contract bans and other legislative proposals could be applied in a
way to negatively affect Accenture.         The occurrences or conditions described above could
affect not only our business with the particular government entities involved, but also our business with other entities of the same or other governmental bodies or with certain commercial clients. If any of the risks discussed above were to occur,
it could have a material adverse effect on our business or our results of operations.        Our business could be materially
adversely affected if we incur legal liability in connection with providing our services and solutions.     
  We could be subject to significant legal liability and litigation expense if we fail to meet our contractual obligations,
or otherwise breach obligations, to third parties, including clients, alliance partners, and other parties with whom we conduct business, or if our subcontractors breach or dispute the terms of our agreements with them and impede our ability to meet
our obligations to our clients. We may enter into agreements with non-standard terms because we perceive an important economic opportunity or because our personnel did not adequately follow our contracting guidelines. In addition, the contracting
practices of competitors, along with the demands of increasingly sophisticated clients, may cause contract terms and conditions that are unfavorable to us to become new standards in the marketplace. We may find ourselves committed to providing
services or solutions that we are unable to deliver or whose delivery will reduce our profitability or cause us financial loss. If we cannot or do not perform our obligations, we could face significant legal liability, and our contracts might not
always protect us adequately through limitations on the scope of our potential liability, because a third party may allege fraud or other wrongdoing to prevent us from relying upon those contractual protections. A failure of a client s system
based on our services or solutions could subject us to a claim for significant damages that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. If we cannot or do not meet our contractual obligations to provide such solutions and services,
and if our exposure is not adequately limited through the terms of our agreements, or if liability limitations are not enforced, we might face significant legal liability and litigation expense and our results of operations could be materially
adversely affected. In addition to expense, litigation can be lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations, and litigation results can be unpredictable. While we maintain insurance for certain potential liabilities, such insurance does not
cover all types and amounts of potential liabilities, and is subject to various exclusions as well as caps on amounts recoverable. Even if we believe a claim is covered by insurance, insurers may dispute our entitlement to recovery for a variety of
potential reasons, which may affect the timing and amount of our recovery.        Our results of operations and ability to
grow could be materially negatively affected if we cannot adapt and expand our services and solutions in response to ongoing changes in technology and offerings by new entrants.     
  Our success depends on our ability to continue to develop and implement services and solutions that anticipate and respond
to rapid and continuing changes in technology and industry developments and offerings by new entrants to serve the evolving needs of our clients. Current areas of significant change include mobility, cloud-based computing and the processing and
analyzing of large amounts of data. Technological developments such as these may materially affect the cost and use of technology by our   
         25   

Table of Contents  

clients. Our growth strategy focuses on responding to these types of developments by driving innovation for our core business as well as through new business initiatives beyond our core business
that will enable us to differentiate our services and solutions. If we do not sufficiently invest in new technology and industry developments, or if we do not make the right strategic investments to respond to these developments and successfully
drive innovation, our services and solutions, our results of operations, and our ability to develop and maintain a competitive advantage and continue to grow could be negatively affected.   
  In addition, we operate in a quickly evolving environment, in which there currently are, and we expect will continue to
be, new technology entrants. New services or technologies offered by competitors or new entrants may make our offerings less differentiated or less competitive, when compared to other alternatives, which may adversely affect our results of
operations.        Outsourcing services subject us to different operational risks than our consulting and systems integration
services.        Outsourcing services, which represented approximately 41% of our net revenues in fiscal
2011, present different operational risks, when compared to our consulting and systems integration services. Our outsourcing services involve taking over the operation of certain portions of our clients  businesses, which may include the
operation of functions that are critical to the core businesses of our clients. In fiscal 2011, we expanded our outsourcing services and solutions into new areas, such as care management and mortgage processing, and we expect to continue to do so.
Expanding into new areas may expose us to additional regulatory or other risks specific to such new areas. We could also incur liability for failure to comply with laws or regulations applicable to the services we provide clients.   
  We may also face exposure in our outsourcing business if we contribute to internal controls issues of a client. If a
process we manage for a client were to result in internal controls failures at the client or impair our client s ability to comply with its own internal control requirements, there is a risk that we could face legal liability. Many of our
clients request that we obtain an audit under Statement on Auditing Standards No. 70 (SAS 70) of the control activities we perform for them when we host or process data belonging to them (effective June 15, 2011, SAS 70 was retired and
replaced with Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements No. 16 and International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3402). If we receive a qualified opinion, or do not deliver the audit reports timely, our ability to acquire new clients
and retain existing clients may be adversely affected and our reputation could be harmed.        Our services or solutions
could infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others or we might lose our ability to utilize the intellectual property of others.        We cannot be sure that our services and solutions, or the solutions of others that we offer to our clients, do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, and these third parties
could claim that we or our clients are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. These claims could harm our reputation, cost us money or prevent us from offering some services or solutions. Any related proceedings could require us to
expend significant time and effort over an extended period of time. In most of our contracts, we agree to indemnify our clients for expenses and liabilities resulting from claimed infringements of the intellectual property rights of third parties.
In some instances, the amount of these indemnities could be greater than the revenues we receive from the client. Any claims or litigation in this area could be time-consuming and costly, injure our reputation and/or require us to incur additional
costs to obtain the right to continue to offer a service or solution to our clients. If we cannot secure this right at all or on reasonable terms, or we cannot substitute alternative technology, our operations could be materially adversely affected.
Additionally, in recent years, individuals and firms have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of asserting claims of   
         26   

Table of Contents  

infringement and attempting to extract settlements from large companies. If a claim of infringement were successful against us or our clients, an injunction might be ordered against our client or
our own services or operations, causing further damages.      We could lose our ability to utilize the intellectual
property of others. Third-party suppliers of software, hardware or other intellectual assets could be acquired or sued, and this could disrupt use of their products or services by Accenture and our clients. If our ability to provide services and
solutions to our clients is impaired, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.        We have only a
limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which are important to our success.        Our
success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary methodologies and other intellectual property. Existing laws of some countries in which we provide services or solutions might offer only limited protection of our intellectual
property rights. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements, and patent, copyright and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property rights. These laws are subject to
change at any time and could further restrict our ability to protect our innovations. Our intellectual property rights may not prevent competitors from independently developing products and services similar to or duplicative of ours. Further, the
steps we take in this regard might not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property by competitors, former employees or other third parties, and we might not be able to detect unauthorized use
of, or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Enforcing our rights might also require considerable time, money and oversight and we may not be successful in enforcing our rights.   
  Depending on the circumstances, we might need to grant a specific client greater rights in intellectual property
developed in connection with a contract than we otherwise generally do. In certain situations, we might forego all rights to the use of intellectual property we create, which would limit our ability to reuse that intellectual property for other
clients. Any limitation on our ability to provide a service or solution could cause us to lose revenue-generating opportunities and require us to incur additional expenses to develop new or modified solutions for future projects.   
    Our ability to attract and retain business and employees may depend on our reputation in the marketplace.     
  We believe the Accenture brand name and our reputation are important corporate assets that help distinguish our services
from those of competitors and also contribute to our efforts to recruit and retain talented employees. However, our corporate reputation is potentially susceptible to material damage by events such as disputes with clients, information technology
security breaches or service outages, internal control deficiencies, or other delivery failures. Similarly, our reputation could be damaged by actions or statements of current or former clients, employees, competitors, vendors and alliance partners,
adversaries in legal proceedings, government regulators, as well as members of the investment community and the media. There is a risk that negative information about Accenture, even if based on rumor or misunderstanding, could adversely affect our
business. Damage to our reputation could be difficult and time-consuming to repair, could make potential or existing clients reluctant to select us for new engagements, resulting in a loss of business, and could adversely affect our recruitment and
retention efforts. Damage to our reputation could also reduce the value and effectiveness of the Accenture brand name and could reduce investor confidence in us, materially adversely affecting our share price.   
         27   

Table of Contents  

     Our alliance relationships may not be successful or may change, which could adversely
affect our results of operations.        We have alliances with companies whose capabilities complement our
own. A very significant portion of our services and solutions are based on technology or software provided by a few major providers which are our alliance partners. See  Business Alliances.  The priorities and objectives of our
alliance partners may differ from ours. As most of our alliance relationships are non-exclusive, our alliance partners are not prohibited from competing with us or forming closer or preferred arrangements with our competitors. One or more of our key
alliance partners may be acquired by a competitor, or key alliances partners might merge with each other, either of which could reduce our access over time to the technology or software provided by those partners. If we do not obtain the expected
benefits from our alliance relationships for any reason, we may be less competitive, our ability to offer attractive solutions to our clients may be negatively affected, and our results of operations could be adversely affected.   
    We may not be successful at identifying, acquiring or integrating other businesses.     
  We expect to continue pursuing strategic and targeted acquisitions, intended to enhance or add to our offerings of
services and solutions, or enable us to expand in certain geographic and other markets. Depending on the opportunities available, we may increase the amount of investment in such acquisitions. We may not successfully identify suitable acquisition
candidates. We also might not succeed in completing targeted transactions or achieve desired results of operations. Furthermore, we face risks in successfully integrating any businesses we might acquire. Ongoing business may be disrupted and our
management s attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities. In addition, we might need to dedicate additional management and other resources, and our organizational structure could make it difficult for us to
efficiently integrate acquired businesses into our ongoing operations and assimilate and retain employees of those businesses into our culture and operations. We may have difficulties as a result of entering into new markets where we have limited or
no direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions. We might fail to realize the expected benefits or strategic objectives of any acquisition we undertake. We might not achieve our expected return on investment, or
may lose money. We may be adversely impacted by liabilities that we assume from an acquired company, including from terminated employees, current or former clients, or other third parties, and may fail to identify or assess the magnitude of certain
liabilities, shortcomings or other circumstances prior to acquiring a company, which could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes or other adverse effects on our
business. If we are unable to complete the number and kind of acquisitions for which we plan, or if we are inefficient or unsuccessful at integrating any acquired businesses into our operations, we may not be able to achieve our planned rates of
growth or improve our market share, profitability or competitive position in specific markets or services.        Our
profitability could suffer if our cost-management strategies are unsuccessful, and we may not be able to improve our profitability through improvements to cost-management to the degree we have done in the past.     
  Our ability to improve or maintain our profitability is dependent on our being able to successfully manage our costs. Our
cost management strategies include maintaining appropriate alignment between the demand for our services and our resource capacity, optimizing the costs of service delivery and maintaining or improving our sales and marketing and general and
administrative costs as a percentage of revenues. We have also taken actions to reduce certain costs, and these initiatives include, without limitation, ongoing global consolidation of our office space and re-alignment of portions of our
non-client-facing workforce to lower-cost locations. There is no guarantee that these, or other cost-management efforts will be successful, that our efficiency will be enhanced, or that we will achieve desired levels of
  
         28   

Table of Contents  

profitability. Over time, we have seen an improvement in general and administrative costs. Because of the significant steps taken in the past to reduce costs, we may not be able to continue to
deliver efficiencies in our cost management, to the same degree as in the past. If we are not effective in reducing our operating costs in response to changes in demand or pricing, or if we are unable to absorb or pass on increases in the
compensation of our employees by moving more work to lower-cost locations or otherwise, our margins and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.        Many of our contracts include performance payments that link some of our fees to the attainment of performance or business targets and/or require us to meet specific service levels. This could
increase the variability of our revenues and impact our margins.        Many of our contracts include
performance clauses that tie our compensation to the achievement of agreed-upon performance standards or milestones. If we fail to satisfy these measures, it could significantly reduce or eliminate our fees under the contracts, increase the cost to
us of meeting performance standards or milestones, delay expected payments or subject us to potential damage claims under the contract terms. Clients also often have the right to terminate a contract and pursue damage claims under the contract for
serious or repeated failure to meet these service levels. We also have a number of contracts, in both outsourcing and consulting, in which a portion of our fees or incentives depends on performance measures such as cost-savings, revenue enhancement,
benefits produced, business goals attained and adherence to schedule. These goals can be complex and may depend on our clients  actual levels of business activity or may be based on assumptions that are later determined not to be achievable or
accurate. These provisions could increase the variability in revenues and margins earned on those contracts.        Changes in
our level of taxes, and audits, investigations and tax proceedings, or changes in our treatment as an Irish company, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.     
  We are subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. We calculate and provide for income taxes in each tax
jurisdiction in which we operate. Tax accounting often involves complex matters and judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various
jurisdictions. Tax authorities have disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with our judgments, or may take increasingly aggressive positions with respect to the judgments we make. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order
to determine the appropriateness of our tax liabilities. However, our judgments might not be sustained as a result of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid could be different from the amounts previously recorded. In addition, our effective
tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws. Tax rates in the
jurisdictions in which we operate may change as a result of macroeconomic or other factors outside of our control. For example, Ireland faces continuing economic uncertainty, including in connection with its outstanding debt obligations. These
uncertainties have led to discussion regarding a potential increase to the corporate tax rate. Increases in the tax rate in Ireland or any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a negative impact on our profitability. In addition,
changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation or enforcement, may be unpredictable, particularly in less developed markets, and could become more stringent, which could materially adversely affect our tax position. Any of
these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   
  Although we expect to be able to rely on the tax treaty between the U.S. and Ireland, there can be no assurance that
legislative or diplomatic action will not be taken that would prevent us from being able to rely on such treaty. Our inability to rely on such treaty would subject us to increased taxation or   

         29   

Table of Contents  

significant additional expense. Congressional proposals could change the definition of a U.S. person for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could subject us to increased taxation. In
addition, we could be materially adversely affected by future changes in tax law or policy in Ireland or other jurisdictions where we operate, including their treaties with the United States. These changes could be exacerbated by economic, budget or
other challenges facing Ireland or these other jurisdictions.        If we are unable to manage the organizational challenges
associated with our size, we might be unable to achieve our business objectives.        As of August 31,
2011, we had approximately 236,000 employees worldwide. Our size and scale present significant management and organizational challenges. It might become increasingly difficult to maintain effective standards across a large enterprise and
effectively institutionalize our knowledge. It might also become more difficult to maintain our culture, effectively manage and monitor our personnel and operations and effectively communicate our core values, policies and procedures, strategies and
goals, particularly given our world-wide operations. Finally, the size and scope of our operations increase the possibility that we will have employees who engage in unlawful or fraudulent activity, or otherwise expose us to unacceptable business
risks, despite our efforts to train them and maintain internal controls to prevent such instances. For example, the inappropriate use of social networking sites by our employees could result in breaches of confidentiality, unauthorized disclosure of
non-public company information or damage to our reputation. If we do not continue to develop and implement the right processes and tools to manage our enterprise and instill our culture and core values into all of our employees, our ability to
compete successfully and achieve our business objectives could be impaired.        If we are unable to collect our receivables
or unbilled services, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected.        Our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for work performed. We evaluate the financial condition of our clients and usually bill and
collect on relatively short cycles. In limited circumstances, we also extend financing to our clients. We have established allowances for losses of receivables and unbilled services. Actual losses on client balances could differ from those that we
currently anticipate and as a result we might need to adjust our allowances. There is no guarantee that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. Macroeconomic conditions could also result in financial difficulties for our
clients, and as a result could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance, or default on their payment obligations to us. Recovery of client financing and
timely collection of client balances also depend on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and bill and collect our contracted revenues. If we are unable to meet our contractual requirements, we might experience delays in collection of
and/or be unable to collect our client balances, and if this occurs, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, if we experience an increase in the time to bill and collect for our services, our cash flows
could be adversely affected.        Our share price and results of operations could fluctuate and be difficult to predict.
       Our share price has fluctuated in the past and could continue to fluctuate in the future in response
to various factors. These factors include:       

changes in macroeconomic or political factors unrelated to our business;      

general or industry-specific market conditions or changes in financial markets;      

announcements by us or competitors about developments in our business or prospects;      
         30   

Table of Contents  

projections or speculation about our business or that of competitors by the media or investment analysts;      

our ability to generate enough free cash flow to return cash to our shareholders at historical levels or levels expected by our shareholders; and

our failure to meet our growth and financial objectives, including with respect to our overall revenue growth and revenue growth for our priority
emerging markets and earnings per share growth.         Our results of operations have varied in the
past and are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the future, making them difficult to predict. Some of the factors that could cause our results of operations to vary include:   

the business decisions of our clients to begin to curtail or reduce the use of our services, including in response to changes in macroeconomic or
political conditions unrelated to our business or general market conditions;          

periodic differences between our clients  estimated and actual levels of business activity associated with ongoing work, as well as the stage
of completion of existing projects and/or their termination or restructuring;          

contract delivery inefficiencies, such as those due to poor delivery or changes in forecasts;      

our ability to transition employees quickly from completed to new projects and maintain an appropriate headcount in each of our workforces;

acquisition, integration and operational costs related to businesses acquired;      

the introduction of new products or services by us, competitors or alliance partners;      

changes in our pricing or competitors  pricing;      

our ability to manage costs, including those for our own or subcontracted personnel, travel, support services and severance;

changes in, or the application of changes in, accounting principles or pronouncements under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles,
particularly those related to revenue recognition;          

currency exchange rate fluctuations;          

changes in estimates, accruals or payments of variable compensation to our employees;     

global, regional and local economic and political conditions and related risks, including acts of terrorism; and      

seasonality, including number of workdays and holiday and summer vacations.      
  As a result of any of the above factors, or any of the other risks described in this Item 1A,  Risk
Factors,  our share price could be difficult to predict and our share price in the past might not be a good indicator of the price of our shares in the future. In addition, if litigation is instituted against us following declines in our share
price, we might need to devote substantial time and resources to responding to the litigation, and our share price could be materially adversely affected.        Our results of operations and share price could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls.     
  The accuracy of our financial reporting is dependent on the effectiveness of our internal controls. We are required to
provide a report from management to our shareholders on our internal control over   
         31   

Table of Contents  

financial reporting that includes an assessment of the effectiveness of these controls. Internal control over financial reporting has inherent limitations, including human error, the possibility
that controls could be circumvented or become inadequate because of changed conditions, and fraud. Because of these inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting might not prevent or detect all misstatements or fraud. If we cannot
maintain and execute adequate internal control over financial reporting or implement required new or improved controls that provide reasonable assurance of the reliability of the financial reporting and preparation of our financial statements for
external use, we could suffer harm to our reputation, fail to meet our public reporting requirements on a timely basis, be unable to properly report on our business and our results of operations, or be required to restate our financial statements,
and our results of operations, the market price of our securities and our ability to obtain new business could be materially adversely affected.        We are incorporated in Ireland and a significant portion of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it might not be possible for shareholders to enforce civil liability
provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States. We may also be subject to criticism and negative publicity related to our incorporation in Ireland.     
  We are organized under the laws of Ireland, and a significant portion of our assets are located outside the United States.
A shareholder who obtains a court judgment based on the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal or state securities laws may be unable to enforce the judgment against us in Ireland or in countries other than the United States where we have
assets. In addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of Ireland and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of
the federal or state securities laws of the United States or would hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the United States and Ireland do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal
recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. The laws of Ireland do however, as a general rule, provide that the judgments of the courts of the United States have the same validity in Ireland as if rendered by Irish
Courts. Certain important requirements must be satisfied before the Irish Courts will recognize the United States judgment. The originating court must have been a court of competent jurisdiction and the judgment may not be recognized if it was
obtained by fraud or its recognition would be contrary to Irish public policy. Any judgment obtained in contravention of the rules of natural justice or that is irreconcilable with an earlier foreign judgment would not be enforced in Ireland.
Similarly, judgments might not be enforceable in countries other than the United States where we have assets.   
  Some companies that conduct business in the United States but are domiciled in certain other jurisdictions have been
criticized as improperly avoiding U.S. taxes or creating an unfair competitive advantage over U.S. companies. Accenture never conducted business under a U.S. parent company, and pays U.S. taxes on all of its U.S. operations. Nonetheless, we could be
subject to criticism in connection with our current incorporation in Ireland.        Irish law differs from the laws in effect
in the United States and might afford less protection to shareholders.        Our shareholders could have
more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Companies Acts 1963 to 2009 of Ireland (the  Companies
Acts ). The Companies Acts differ in some significant, and possibly material, respects from laws applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders under various state corporation laws, including the provisions relating to interested
directors, mergers and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors.   
         32   

Table of Contents  

   Under Irish law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are
generally owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies do not generally have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company under Irish law, and may only do so in limited circumstances. Directors of an Irish company
must, in exercising their powers and performing their duties, act with due care and skill, honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company. Directors have a duty not to put themselves in a position in which their duties
to the company and their personal interests might conflict and also are under a duty to disclose any personal interest in any contract or arrangement with the company or any of its subsidiaries. If a director or officer of an Irish company is found
to have breached his duties to that company, he could be held personally liable to the company in respect of that breach of duty.        We might be unable to access additional capital on favorable terms or at all. If we raise equity capital, it may dilute our shareholders  ownership interest in us.     
  We might choose to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in order to:   

take advantage of opportunities, including more rapid expansion;      

acquire other businesses or assets;          

repurchase shares from our shareholders;          

develop new services and solutions; or          

respond to competitive pressures.         Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity could dilute shareholders  ownership percentage in us. Furthermore, any additional financing we need might not be available on terms favorable
to us, or at all.         ITEM 1B.    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS    
  None.        
 ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES       We have major offices in the world s leading
business centers, including New York, London, Frankfurt, Paris, Madrid, Chicago, Milan, Tokyo, Sao Paolo, Rome, Bangalore, San Francisco, Sydney, Manila and Boston, among others. In total, we have offices and operations in more than
200 cities in 54 countries around the world. We do not own any material real property. Substantially all of our office space is leased under long-term leases with varying expiration dates. We believe that our facilities are adequate to
meet our needs in the near future.         ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS    
  We are involved in a number of judicial and arbitration proceedings concerning matters arising in the ordinary course of
our business. We and/or our personnel also from time to time are involved in investigations by various regulatory or legal authorities concerning matters arising in the course of our business around the world. We do not expect that any of these
matters, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition.      As previously reported, in April 2007, the U.S. Department of Justice intervened in a civil  qui tam  action previously filed under seal by two private individuals ( relators ) in the
U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas against Accenture and several of its indirect subsidiaries. The complaint as   
         33   

Table of Contents  

amended alleged that, in connection with work we undertook for the U.S. federal government, we received payments, resale revenue or other benefits as a result of, or otherwise acted improperly in
connection with, alliance agreements we maintain with technology vendors and others in violation of contracts with the U.S. government and/or applicable law or regulations. Similar suits were brought against other companies in our
industry. On September 9, 2011, we entered into an agreement to settle the lawsuit. Pursuant to the agreement, we agreed to pay the United States $63.675 million, in consideration for the release of all claims alleged by the
government and the relators against us in the matter, and we expressly denied any wrongdoing. The relators will petition the court for attorneys fees and costs associated with the matter, and we expect to have to litigate the basis for and
amounts of those fees and costs.      We currently maintain the types and amounts of insurance customary in the
industries and countries in which we operate, including coverage for professional liability, general liability and management liability. We consider our insurance coverage to be adequate both as to the risks and amounts for the businesses we
conduct.         ITEM 4.    (REMOVED AND RESERVED)    
   Executive Officers of the Registrant       Our executive officers and persons chosen to become executive officers as of the date hereof are as follows:       Kevin Campbell , 51, became our group chief executive Technology in September 2009, after serving as our group chief executive Outsourcing since September 2006. Prior to that,
Mr. Campbell served as our senior managing director Business Process Outsourcing from February 2005 to September 2006. Previously, he served as the vice president of global sales at Hewitt Associates from September 2004 to February 2005,
and as president and chief operating officer of Exult Inc. from May 2000 to September 2004, when Exult merged with Hewitt. Mr. Campbell was previously employed by Accenture from 1982 until 1999.   
   Gianfranco Casati , 52, became our group chief executive Products operating group in September 2006. From April
2002 to September 2006, Mr. Casati was managing director of the Products operating group s Europe operating unit. He also served as Accenture s country managing director for Italy and as chairman of our geographic council in its IGEM
(Italy, Greece, emerging markets) region, supervising Accenture offices in Italy, Greece and several Eastern European countries. Mr. Casati has been with Accenture for 27 years.   
   Martin I. Cole , 55, became our group chief executive Communications, Media   Technology (prior to
September 1, 2011 known as Communications   High Tech) operating group in September 2006, after serving as our group chief executive Public Service operating group from September 2004 to September 2006. From September 2000 to
August 2004, he served in leadership roles in our outsourcing group, including serving as global managing partner of our Outsourcing   Infrastructure Delivery group. Mr. Cole has been with Accenture for 31 years.   
   Shawn Collinson , 50, became our chief strategy officer in March 2011. From September 2009 to March 2011,
Mr. Collinson served as our managing director Industries   Market Innovation. Prior to that, he held numerous leadership roles in our Resources operating group, including as managing director Management Consulting from
September 2006 to August 2009. Mr. Collinson has been with Accenture for 21 years.       Anthony G.
Coughlan , 54, has been our chief accounting officer since September 2004 and served as our controller from September 2001 until August 2010. Mr. Coughlan previously served as a director of Avanade from September 2008 until February 2011,
and served as the chair of its Audit Committee from November 2008 until February 2011. Mr. Coughlan has been with Accenture for 33 years.   
         34   

Table of Contents  

    Pamela J. Craig , 54, has been our chief financial officer since
October 2006. From March 2004 to October 2006, she was our senior vice president Finance. Previously, Ms. Craig was our group director Business Operations   Services from March 2003 to March 2004, and was our
managing partner Global Business Operations from June 2001 to March 2003. Ms. Craig served as a director of Avanade from February 2006 until July 2009, and was a member of its Audit Committee. Ms. Craig has been with Accenture
for 32 years.       Johan (Jo) G. Deblaere , 49, became our chief operating officer in September 2009. From
September 2006 to September 2009, Mr. Deblaere served as our chief operating officer Outsourcing. Prior to that, from September 2005 to September 2006, he led our global network of business process outsourcing delivery centers. From
September 2000 to September 2005, he had overall responsibility for work with public-sector clients in Western Europe. Mr. Deblaere has been with Accenture for 26 years.   
   William D. Green , 58, became chairman of the Board of Directors on August 31, 2006. Mr. Green was our
chief executive officer from September 2004 to December 2010 and has been a director since June 2001. From March 2003 to August 2004, he was our chief operating officer Client Services, and from August 2000 to August 2004 he was our country
managing director, United States. Mr. Green has been with Accenture for 34 years.       Richard A.
Lumb , 50, became our group chief executive Financial Services operating group in December 2010. From June 2006 to December 2010, Mr. Lumb led our Financial Services operating group in Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Latin America.
He also served as our managing director of business and market development Financial Services operating group from September 2005 to June 2006. Mr. Lumb has been with Accenture for 26 years.   
   Pierre Nanterme , 52, became our chief executive officer on January 1, 2011. Mr. Nanterme was our group
chief executive Financial Services operating group from September 2007 to December 2010. Prior to assuming this role, Mr. Nanterme held various leadership roles throughout the Company, including serving as our chief leadership officer from
May 2006 through September 2007, and our country managing director for France from November 2005 to September 2007. Mr. Nanterme has been with Accenture for 28 years. Mr. Nanterme has been a director since October 2010.   
   Jean-Marc Ollagnier , 49, became our group chief executive Resources operating group in March 2011. From
September 2006 to March 2011, Mr. Ollagnier led our Resources operating group in Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa. Previously, he served as our global managing director Financial Services Solutions group and as our
geographic unit managing director Gallia. Mr. Ollagnier has been with Accenture for 25 years.   
   Jeffrey D. Osborne , 46, became our chief performance officer in April 2010. From August 2005 through April 2010,
Mr. Osborne held various leadership roles for Accenture s Business Process Outsourcing growth platform, including serving as the chief operating officer and global delivery lead. Mr. Osborne has been with Accenture for 6 years.
Prior to joining Accenture, Mr. Osborne spent 18 years in manufacturing with aerospace manufacturer Honeywell.       Stephen J. Rohleder , 54, became our group chief executive Health   Public Service operating group in September 2009. From September 2004 to September 2009, Mr. Rohleder served as
our chief operating officer. Prior to that, he was our group chief executive Public Service operating group from March 2003 to September 2004. From March 2000 to March 2003, he was managing partner of our Public Service operating group in the
United States. Mr. Rohleder has been with Accenture for 30 years.       Michael (Mike) J. Salvino , 46,
became our group chief executive Business Process Outsourcing in September 2009. From July 2006 to September 2009, Mr. Salvino served as managing director Business Process Outsourcing. Previously, he served as the global sales and
accounts co-leader of the   
         35   

Table of Contents  

HR outsourcing group at Hewitt Associates from January 2005 to July 2006, and as president of the Americas region for Exult Inc. from June 2003 to October 2004 prior to Exult s merger with
Hewitt. Mr. Salvino was employed by Accenture from June 1987 until December 1992 and then again from October 1993 until June 2000 before rejoining in July 2006.   
   Jill Smart , 51, became our chief human resources officer in September 2004. Previously, Ms. Smart was managing
partner of HR delivery. From 2000 until 2003, she served as the head of our People Enablement business practice. Ms. Smart has been with Accenture for 30 years.   
   Julie Spellman Sweet , 44, has been our general counsel, secretary and chief compliance officer since March 2010.
Prior to joining Accenture, Ms. Sweet was, for 10 years, a partner in the Corporate department of the law firm of Cravath, Swaine   Moore LLP, which she joined as an associate in 1992.   
   Alexander M. van  t Noordende , 48, became our group chief executive Management Consulting in March 2011.
Mr. van  t Noodende was our group chief executive Resources operating group from September 2006 to March 2011. Prior to assuming that role, he led our Resources operating group in Southern Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Latin
America, and served as managing partner of the Resources operating group in France, Belgium and the Netherlands. From 2001 until September 2006, he served as our country managing director for the Netherlands. Mr. van  t Noordende has been
with Accenture for 24 years.   
         36   

Table of Contents  

    PART II    

ITEM 5.    MARKET   
     FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES       
   Price Range of Accenture plc Class A Ordinary Shares       Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol  ACN.  The New York Stock Exchange is the principal United States market for these shares.
     The following table sets forth, on a per share basis for the periods indicated, the high and low sale prices
for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares as reported by the New York Stock Exchange.       

(1)  
    On May 6, 2010, between 2:40pm EDT and 3:00pm EDT, U.S. equity markets experienced a rapid, severe decline and corresponding recovery, which
has become known as the  flash crash.  Our stock was one of the securities involved in the  flash crash  and, because of this event, shows an intraday low on the consolidated tape of trades on all exchanges and market
centers of $17.74.         The closing sale price of an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share as
reported by the New York Stock Exchange consolidated tape as of October 11, 2011 was $57.02. As of October 11, 2011, there were 243 holders of record of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares.   
  There is no trading market for Accenture plc Class X ordinary shares. As of October 11, 2011, there were 948
holders of record of Accenture plc Class X ordinary shares.      To ensure that senior
executives continue to maintain equity ownership levels that we consider meaningful, we require current senior executives to comply with the Accenture Senior Executive Equity Ownership Policy. This policy requires senior executives to own Accenture
equity valued at a multiple (ranging from    1   /  2   to
6) of their base compensation determined by their position level.        Dividend Policy    
  Prior to October 2009, Accenture declared and paid dividends on an annual basis. On November 16, 2009, we paid a cash
dividend of $0.75 per share on our Class A ordinary shares and Accenture SCA paid a cash dividend of $0.75 per share on its Class I common shares.      In October 2009, we announced a move to declare and pay cash dividends on a semi-annual basis beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2010. It is currently expected that any semi-annual dividend would be
declared in September and March. On May 14, 2010, November 15, 2010 and May 13, 2011, we paid a cash dividend of $0.375, $0.45 and $0.45 per share, respectively, on our Class A ordinary shares and Accenture SCA paid a
semi-annual cash dividend of $0.375, $0.45 and $0.45 per share, respectively, on its Class I common shares.   
         37   

Table of Contents  

   On September 26, 2011, the Board of Directors of Accenture plc declared
a semi-annual cash dividend of $0.675 per share on our Class A ordinary shares for shareholders of record at the close of business on October 14, 2011. Accenture plc will cause Accenture SCA to declare a semi-annual cash dividend of $0.675
per share on its Class I common shares for shareholders of record at the close of business on October 11, 2011. Both dividends are payable on November 15, 2011.   
  Future dividends on Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, if any, and the timing of declaration of any such
dividends, will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors of Accenture plc and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements and surplus, financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that
the Board of Directors of Accenture plc may deem relevant, as well as our ability to pay dividends in compliance with the Companies Acts.      In certain circumstances, as an Irish tax resident company, we may be required to deduct Irish dividend withholding tax (currently at the rate of 20%) from dividends paid to our shareholders. Shareholders
resident in  relevant territories  (including countries that are European Union member states (other than Ireland), the United States and other countries with which Ireland has a tax treaty) may be exempted from Irish dividend withholding
tax. However, shareholders residing in other countries will generally be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax.       Recent Sales of
Unregistered Securities       None.   
         38   

Table of Contents  

    Purchases and redemptions of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and Class X
ordinary shares       The following table provides information relating to our purchases of Accenture plc
Class A ordinary shares and redemptions of Accenture plc Class X ordinary shares during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. For year-to-date information on all share purchases, redemptions and exchanges by the Company and further discussion
of our share purchase activity, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Share Purchases and Redemptions.    

(1)  
    Average price per share reflects the total cash outlay for the period, divided by the number of shares acquired, including those acquired by
purchase or redemption and any acquired by means of employee forfeiture.          

(2)  
    Since August 2001, the Board of Directors of Accenture plc has authorized and periodically confirmed a publicly announced open-market share purchase
program for acquiring Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we purchased 11,271,814 Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares under this program for an aggregate price of $621 million. The open-market
purchase program does not have an expiration date.          

(3)  
    As of August 31, 2011, our aggregate available authorization for share purchases and redemptions was $1,042 million, which management has
the discretion to use for either our publicly announced open-market share purchase program or the other share purchase programs. Since August 2001 and as of August 31, 2011, the Board of Directors of Accenture plc has authorized an aggregate of
$15.1 billion for purchases and redemptions of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares.      

(4)  
    During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, Accenture purchased 846,555 Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares in transactions unrelated to
publicly announced share plans or programs. These transactions primarily consisted of acquisitions of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares via share withholding for payroll tax obligations due from employees and former employees in connection
with the delivery of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares under our various employee equity share plans. These purchases of shares in connection with employee share plans do not affect our aggregate available authorization for our publicly
announced open-market share purchase and the other share purchase programs.          
 
         39   

Table of Contents  

    Purchases and redemptions of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc.
exchangeable shares       The following table provides additional information relating to our purchases and
redemptions of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares for cash during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. We believe that the following table and footnotes provide useful information regarding
the share purchase and redemption activity of Accenture. Generally, purchases and redemptions of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares for cash reduce shares outstanding for purposes of
computing diluted earnings per share.       

(1)  
    During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we acquired a total of 861,609 Accenture SCA Class I common shares and 105,400 Accenture Canada
Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares from current and former senior executives and their permitted transferees. This includes acquisitions by means of purchase or redemption, or employee forfeiture, as applicable. In addition, during the fourth quarter
of fiscal 2011, we issued 1,413,022 Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares upon redemptions of an equivalent number of Accenture SCA Class I common shares pursuant to the registration statement.      

(2)  
    Average price per share reflects the total cash outlay for the period, divided by the number of shares acquired, including those acquired by
purchase or redemption and any acquired by means of employee forfeiture.          

(3)  
    As of August 31, 2011, our aggregate available authorization for share purchases and redemptions was $1,042 million, which management has
the discretion to use for either our publicly announced open-market share purchase program or the other share purchase programs. Since August 2001 and as of August 31, 2011, the Board of Directors of Accenture plc has authorized an aggregate of
$15.1 billion for purchases and redemptions of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares.      
         40   

Table of Contents  

      ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA    
  The data as of August 31, 2011 and 2010 and for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 are derived from the audited Consolidated
Financial Statements and related Notes that are included elsewhere in this report. The data as of August 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 and for fiscal 2008 and 2007 are derived from the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes that
are not included in this report. The selected financial data should be read in conjunction with  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and our Consolidated Financial Statements and
related Notes included elsewhere in this report.       

(1)  
    Includes the impact of the restructuring costs recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations for Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009 Reorganization and Restructuring Costs, net.       

(2)  
    On September 1, 2009, the Company adopted guidance issued by the FASB on noncontrolling interests. As required, the guidance on noncontrolling
interests was applied prospectively with the exception of presentation and disclosure requirements, which were applied retrospectively for all periods presented. Prior to fiscal 2010, Net income was referred to as Income before minority interest and
Net income attributable to Accenture plc was referred to as Net income.          

(1)  
    On September 1, 2009, the Company adopted guidance issued by the FASB on noncontrolling interests. As required, the guidance on noncontrolling
interests was applied prospectively with the exception of presentation and disclosure requirements, which were applied retrospectively for all periods presented.      
         41   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 7.   
     MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS       
   The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and
related Notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion and analysis also contains forward-looking statements and should also be read in conjunction with the disclosures and information contained in  Disclosure
Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  and  Risk Factors  in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.        We use the terms  Accenture,   we,  the  Company,   our  and  us  in this report to refer to Accenture plc and its subsidiaries. All references to
years, unless otherwise noted, refer to our fiscal year, which ends on August 31. For example, a reference to  fiscal 2011  means the 12-month period that ended on August 31, 2011. All references to quarters, unless otherwise
noted, refer to the quarters of our fiscal year.        We use the term  in local currency  so that
certain financial results may be viewed without the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of business performance. Financial results  in local currency  are calculated by
restating current period activity into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior year period s foreign currency exchange rates. This approach is used for all results where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar.    
   Overview    
  Our results of operations can be affected by economic conditions, including macroeconomic conditions, credit market
conditions and levels of business confidence. Revenues are driven by the ability of our executives to secure new contracts and to deliver solutions and services that add value relevant to our clients  current needs and challenges. The level of
revenues we achieve is based on our ability to deliver market-leading service offerings and to deploy skilled teams of professionals quickly and on a global basis.   
  Revenues before reimbursements ( net revenues ) for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 were $6.69 billion,
compared with $5.42 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, an increase of 23% in U.S. dollars and 14% in local currency. Net revenues for fiscal 2011 were $25.51 billion, compared with $21.55 billion for fiscal 2010, an increase of 18% in
U.S. dollars and 15% in local currency. This very strong growth during fiscal 2011 contrasts with a 2% local currency revenue decline during fiscal 2010, compared to fiscal 2009. All of our operating groups experienced year-over-year revenue growth
in local currency in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, with very strong growth in Resources and Products. Based on new contract bookings over the last several quarters, we expect growth to continue in most areas of our business. We also expect the
level of year-over-year growth will moderate, particularly in consulting, and vary across operating groups and geographic regions. There continues to be significant volatility in markets around the world, as well as economic and geopolitical
uncertainty. Such volatility and uncertainty, should it continue, could adversely affect our clients and the levels of business activities in the industries and geographies where we operate. We continue to monitor our costs closely in order to
respond to changing conditions and to manage any impact to our results of operations.      In our consulting
business, net revenues for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 were $3.88 billion, compared with $3.09 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, an increase of 25% in U.S. dollars and 16% in local currency. Consulting net revenues for fiscal 2011
were $14.92 billion, compared with $12.37 billion for fiscal 2010, an increase of 21% in U.S. dollars and 17% in local currency. All five operating groups experienced year-over-year consulting revenue growth in local currency in the fourth quarter
of fiscal 2011, driven by very strong growth in Resources and Products. In our consulting business overall, clients continue to focus on initiatives designed to deliver cost savings and operational efficiency, as well as projects to integrate their
global operations and grow and transform their businesses.   
         42   

Table of Contents  

Compared to fiscal 2010, we are providing a greater proportion of systems integration consulting through use of lower-cost resources in our Global Delivery Network and we expect this trend to
continue in the medium term. While the business environment remains competitive, pricing is stable with some improvement in certain areas of our business.      In our outsourcing business, net revenues for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 were $2.81 billion, compared with $2.33 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, an increase of 21% in U.S. dollars
and 13% in local currency. Outsourcing net revenues for fiscal 2011 were $10.58 billion, compared with $9.18 billion for fiscal 2010, an increase of 15% in U.S. dollars and 13% in local currency. All five operating groups experienced year-over-year
outsourcing revenue growth in local currency in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, led by Communications   High Tech and Financial Services. Clients continue to be focused on projects that will improve operational effectiveness. Growth in
outsourcing is driven by higher volumes, scope and geographic expansions and new work at existing clients, as well as services for new clients. As with systems integration consulting, compared to fiscal 2010 we are providing a greater proportion of
application outsourcing through use of lower-cost resources in our Global Delivery Network.      As we are a global
company, our revenues are denominated in multiple currencies and may be significantly affected by currency exchange-rate fluctuations. If the U.S. dollar weakens against other currencies, resulting in favorable currency translation, our revenues and
revenue growth in U.S. dollars may be higher. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, resulting in unfavorable currency translation, our revenues and revenue growth in U.S. dollars may be lower. When compared to fiscal 2010, the
U.S. dollar weakened against many currencies during fiscal 2011. This resulted in favorable currency translation and U.S. dollar revenue results that were approximately 9% and 3% better than our results in local currency for the fourth quarter and
fiscal 2011, respectively.      The primary categories of operating expenses include cost of services, sales and
marketing and general and administrative costs. Cost of services is primarily driven by the cost of client-service personnel, which consists mainly of compensation, subcontractor and other personnel costs, and non-payroll outsourcing costs. Cost of
services as a percentage of revenues is driven by the prices we obtain for our solutions and services, the utilization of our client-service personnel and the level of non-payroll costs associated with new outsourcing contracts. Utilization
primarily represents the percentage of our consulting professionals  time spent on billable work. Utilization for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 was approximately 85% and within our target range. This level of utilization reflects continued
strong demand for resources in our Global Delivery Network and in most countries. We continue to hire to meet current and projected future demand.      We proactively plan and manage the size and composition of our workforce and take actions as needed to address changes in the anticipated demand for our services, given that payroll costs are the most
significant portion of our operating expenses. Based on current and projected future demand, we have increased our headcount, the majority of which serve our clients, to approximately 236,000 as of August 31, 2011, compared with approximately
223,000 as of May 31, 2011 and 204,000 as of August 31, 2010. This 16% year-over-year increase in our headcount reflects an overall increase in demand for our services, including those delivered through our Global Delivery Network in
lower-cost locations. Annualized attrition, excluding involuntary terminations, for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 was 14%, compared with 15% in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 and 17% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. We adjust levels of
new hiring, evaluate voluntary attrition and use involuntary terminations as means to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand. In addition, we also adjust compensation in certain skill sets and geographies in order to
attract and retain appropriate numbers of qualified employees, and we may need to continue to adjust compensation in the future. For the majority of our personnel, compensation increases for fiscal 2012 became effective September 1, 2011. As in
prior fiscal years, we strive to adjust pricing and/or the mix of resources to reduce the impact of compensation increases on our gross margin. Our ability to grow our revenues and increase our margins
  
         43   

Table of Contents  

could be adversely affected if we are unable to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand, mobilize our employees globally on a timely basis, manage attrition, recover
increases in compensation and/or effectively assimilate and utilize new employees.      Gross margin (Net revenues
less Cost of services before reimbursable expenses as a percentage of Net revenues) for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 was 33.1%, compared with 34.0% for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. Gross margin for fiscal 2011 was 32.9%, compared with
33.6% for fiscal 2010. Our contract profitability for fiscal 2011 was lower than fiscal 2010, as we continued our efforts to absorb higher annual compensation increases and subcontractor costs with improved pricing and a more efficient resource mix.
Gross margin also includes the impact of higher recruiting and training costs from the addition of a large number of new employees to meet demand.      Sales and marketing and general and administrative costs as a percentage of net revenues were 19.3% for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, compared with 20.9% for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. Sales
and marketing and general and administrative costs as a percentage of net revenues were 19.3% for fiscal 2011, compared with 20.1% for fiscal 2010. Sales and marketing is driven primarily by compensation costs for business-development activities,
investment in offerings, and marketing- and advertising-related activities. General and administrative costs primarily include costs for non-client-facing personnel, information systems and office space. We continuously monitor these costs and
implement cost-management actions, as appropriate, to maintain or lower these costs as a percentage of revenues. These actions include performing a greater proportion of general and administrative activities in lower-cost locations. For fiscal
2011 compared to fiscal 2010, sales and marketing costs as a percentage of net revenues decreased 0.2%, while general and administrative costs decreased 0.6% as a percentage of net revenues. The decrease in general and administrative costs as a
percentage of net revenues was due to management of these costs at a growth rate lower than that of net revenues, as well as a reduction in the bad debt reserve, partially offset by a provision for litigation matters. While we continue to manage
these costs, we expect the reduction in general and administrative costs as a percentage of net revenues to moderate in fiscal 2012. Our margins could be adversely affected if our cost-management actions are not sufficient to maintain sales and
marketing and general and administrative costs at or below current levels as a percentage of net revenues.   
  Operating income for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 was $923 million, compared with $714 million for the fourth quarter
of fiscal 2010. Operating income for fiscal 2011 was $3,470 million, compared with $2,915 million for fiscal 2010. Operating margin (Operating income as a percentage of Net revenues) for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 was 13.8%, compared with
13.2% for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. Operating margin for fiscal 2011 was 13.6%, compared with 13.5% for fiscal 2010.      Our Operating income and Earnings per share are also affected by currency exchange-rate fluctuations on revenues and costs. Most of our costs are incurred in the same currency as the related net revenues.
Where practical, we also seek to manage foreign currency exposure for costs not incurred in the same currency as the related net revenues by using currency protection provisions in our customer contracts and through our hedging programs. We estimate
that the aggregate percentage impact of foreign exchange rates on our operating expenses is similar to that disclosed for net revenues. For more information on our hedging programs, see Note 7 (Derivative Financial Instruments) to our Consolidated
Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.        Bookings and Backlog    
  New contract bookings for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 were $8.44 billion, with consulting bookings of $4.16 billion
and outsourcing bookings of $4.28 billion. New contract bookings for fiscal 2011 were $28.83 billion, with consulting bookings of $15.41 billion and outsourcing bookings of $13.42 billion.   
         44   

Table of Contents  

   We provide information regarding our new contract bookings because we
believe doing so provides useful trend information regarding changes in the volume of our new business over time. However, new bookings can vary significantly quarter to quarter depending in part on the timing of the signing of a small number of
large outsourcing contracts. Clients continue to seek flexibility by using a phased approach to contracting consulting work, which is resulting in smaller initial total contract values than in the past. Information regarding our new bookings is not
comparable to, nor should it be substituted for, an analysis of our revenues over time. There are no third-party standards or requirements governing the calculation of bookings. New contract bookings involve estimates and judgments regarding new
contracts as well as renewals, extensions and changes to existing contracts. We do not update our new bookings for material subsequent terminations or reductions related to bookings originally recorded in prior fiscal years. New contract bookings
are recorded using then-existing foreign currency exchange rates and are not subsequently adjusted for foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.      The majority of our contracts are terminable by the client on short notice, and some without notice. Accordingly, we do not believe it is appropriate to characterize bookings attributable to these
contracts as backlog. Normally, if a client terminates a project, the client remains obligated to pay for commitments we have made to third parties in connection with the project, services performed and reimbursable expenses incurred by us through
the date of termination.       Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates    
  The preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of
revenues and expenses. We continually evaluate our estimates, judgments and assumptions based on available information and experience. Because the use of estimates is inherent in the financial reporting process, actual results could differ from
those estimates. Certain of our accounting policies require higher degrees of judgment than others in their application. These include certain aspects of accounting for revenue recognition and income taxes.   
    Revenue Recognition        Our contracts have different terms based on the scope, deliverables and complexity of the engagement, the terms of which frequently require us to make judgments and estimates in recognizing revenues. We
have many types of contracts, including time-and-materials contracts, fixed-price contracts and contracts with features of both of these contract types. In addition, some contracts include incentives related to costs incurred, benefits produced or
adherence to schedules that may increase the variability in revenues and margins earned on such contracts. We conduct rigorous reviews prior to signing such contracts to evaluate whether these incentives are reasonably achievable.   
  We recognize revenues from technology integration consulting contracts using the percentage-of-completion method of
accounting, which involves calculating the percentage of services provided during the reporting period compared with the total estimated services to be provided over the duration of the contract. Our contracts for technology integration consulting
generally span one to two years. Estimated revenues used in applying the percentage-of-completion method include estimated incentives for which achievement of defined goals is deemed probable. This method is followed where reasonably dependable
estimates of revenues and costs can be made. Estimates of total contract revenues and costs are continuously monitored during the term of the contract, and recorded revenues and estimated costs are subject to revision as the contract progresses.
Such revisions may result in increases or decreases to revenues and income and are reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements in the periods in which they are first identified. If our estimates indicate that a contract loss will occur, a
loss provision is recorded in the period in which the loss first becomes probable and reasonably estimable.   
         45   

Table of Contents  

Contract losses are determined to be the amount by which the estimated direct and indirect costs of the contract exceed the estimated total revenues that will be generated by the contract and are
included in Cost of services and classified in Other accrued liabilities.      Revenues from contracts for
non-technology integration consulting services with fees based on time and materials or cost-plus are recognized as the services are performed and amounts are earned in accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 101,
 Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements  ( SAB 101 ), as amended by SAB No. 104,  Revenue Recognition  ( SAB 104 ). We consider amounts to be earned once evidence of an arrangement has
been obtained, services are delivered, fees are fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. In such contracts, our efforts, measured by time incurred, typically are provided in less than a year and represent the contractual
milestones or output measure, which is the contractual earnings pattern. For non-technology integration consulting contracts with fixed fees, we recognize revenues as amounts become billable in accordance with contract terms, provided the billable
amounts are not contingent, are consistent with the services delivered, and are earned. Contingent or incentive revenues relating to non-technology integration consulting contracts are recognized when the contingency is satisfied and we conclude the
amounts are earned.      Outsourcing contracts typically span several years and involve complex delivery, often
through multiple workforces in different countries. In a number of these arrangements, we hire client employees and become responsible for certain client obligations. Revenues are recognized on outsourcing contracts as amounts become billable in
accordance with contract terms, unless the amounts are billed in advance of performance of services, in which case revenues are recognized when the services are performed and amounts are earned in accordance with SAB 101, as amended by
SAB 104. Revenues from time-and-materials or cost-plus contracts are recognized as the services are performed. In such contracts, our effort, measured by time incurred, represents the contractual milestones or output measure, which is the
contractual earnings pattern. Revenues from unit-priced contracts are recognized as transactions are processed based on objective measures of output. Revenues from fixed-price contracts are recognized on a straight-line basis, unless revenues are
earned and obligations are fulfilled in a different pattern. Outsourcing contracts can also include incentive payments for benefits delivered to clients. Revenues relating to such incentive payments are recorded when the contingency is satisfied and
we conclude the amounts are earned. We continuously review and reassess our estimates of contract profitability. Circumstances that potentially affect profitability over the life of the contract include decreases in volumes of transactions or other
inputs/outputs on which we are paid, failure to deliver agreed benefits, variances from planned internal/external costs to deliver our services, and other factors affecting revenues and costs.   
  Costs related to delivering outsourcing services are expensed as incurred, with the exception of certain transition costs
related to the set-up of processes, personnel and systems, which are deferred during the transition period and expensed evenly over the period outsourcing services are provided. The deferred costs are specific internal costs or incremental external
costs directly related to transition or set-up activities necessary to enable the outsourced services. Generally, deferred amounts are protected in the event of early termination of the contract and are monitored regularly for impairment. Impairment
losses are recorded when projected undiscounted operating cash flows of the related contract are not sufficient to recover the carrying amount of contract assets. Amounts billable to the client for transition or set-up activities are deferred and
recognized as revenue evenly over the period outsourcing services are provided.      We enter into contracts that
may consist of multiple elements. These contracts may include any combination of technology integration consulting services, non-technology integration consulting services or outsourcing services described above. Revenues for contracts with multiple
elements are allocated based on the lesser of the element s relative selling price or the amount that is not contingent on future   
         46   

Table of Contents  

delivery of another element. The selling price of each element is determined by obtaining the vendor-specific objective evidence ( VSOE ) of fair value of each element. VSOE of fair
value is based on the price charged when the element is sold separately by the Company on a regular basis and not as part of a contract with multiple elements. If the amount of non-contingent revenues allocated to a delivered element accounted for
under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting is less than the costs to deliver such services, then such costs are deferred and recognized in future periods when the revenues become non-contingent. Revenues are recognized in accordance
with our accounting policies for the separate elements when the services have value on a stand-alone basis, selling price of the separate elements exists and, in arrangements that include a general right of refund relative to the delivered element,
performance of the undelivered element is considered probable and substantially in our control. While determining fair value and identifying separate elements require judgment, generally fair value and the separate elements are readily identifiable
as we also sell those elements unaccompanied by other elements.      Revenues recognized in excess of billings are
recorded as Unbilled services. Billings in excess of revenues recognized are recorded as Deferred revenues until revenue recognition criteria are met. Client prepayments (even if nonrefundable) are deferred and recognized over future periods as
services are delivered or performed.      Our consulting revenues are affected by the number of work days in the
fiscal quarter, which in turn is affected by the level of vacation days and holidays. Consequently, since our first and third quarters typically have approximately 5-10% more work days than our second and fourth quarters, our consulting revenues are
typically higher in our first and third quarters than in our second and fourth quarters.      Net revenues include
the margin earned on computer hardware and software resale contracts, as well as revenues from alliance agreements, neither of which is material to us. Reimbursements include billings for travel and other out-of-pocket expenses and third-party
costs, such as the cost of hardware and software resales. In addition, Reimbursements may include allocations from gross billings to record an amount equivalent to reimbursable costs, where billings do not specifically identify reimbursable
expenses. We report revenues net of any revenue-based taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue-producing transactions.   
    Income Taxes        Determining the consolidated provision for income tax expense, income tax liabilities and deferred tax assets and liabilities involves judgment. As a global company, we calculate and provide for income
taxes in each of the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. This involves estimating current tax exposures in each jurisdiction as well as making judgments regarding the recoverability of deferred tax assets. Tax exposures can involve complex issues
and may require an extended period to resolve. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, we consider whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized and adjust the valuation
allowances accordingly. Factors considered in making this determination include the period of expiration of the tax asset, planned use of the tax asset, tax planning strategies and historical and projected taxable income as well as tax liabilities
for the tax jurisdiction in which the tax asset is located. Valuation allowances will be subject to change in each future reporting period as a result of changes in one or more of these factors. Changes in the geographic mix or estimated level of
annual income before taxes can affect the overall effective tax rate.      We apply an estimated annual effective
tax rate to our quarterly operating results to determine the interim provision for income tax expense. In accordance with FASB guidance on uncertainty in income taxes, a change in judgment that impacts the measurement of a tax position taken in a
prior year is recognized as a discrete item in the interim period in which the change occurs. In the event there is a significant unusual or infrequent item recognized in our quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item is recorded
in the interim period in which it occurs.   
         47   

Table of Contents  

   No taxes have been provided on undistributed foreign earnings that are
planned to be indefinitely reinvested. If future events, including material changes in estimates of cash, working capital and long-term investment requirements, necessitate that these earnings be distributed, an additional provision for withholding
taxes may apply, which could materially affect our future effective tax rate. We currently do not foresee any event that would require us to distribute these earnings.   
  As a matter of course, we are regularly audited by various taxing authorities, and sometimes these audits result in
proposed assessments where the ultimate resolution may result in us owing additional taxes. We establish tax liabilities or reduce tax assets for uncertain tax positions when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are appropriate and
supportable under local tax law, we believe we may not succeed in realizing the tax benefit of certain positions if challenged. In evaluating a tax position, we determine whether it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon
examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. Our estimate of the ultimate tax liability contains assumptions based on past experiences, judgments about potential
actions by taxing jurisdictions as well as judgments about the likely outcome of issues that have been raised by taxing jurisdictions. The tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being
realized upon settlement. We evaluate these uncertain tax positions each quarter and adjust the related tax liabilities or assets in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of a tax audit or the expiration of a statute of
limitations. We believe the estimates and assumptions used to support our evaluation of uncertain tax positions are reasonable. However, final determinations of prior-year tax liabilities, either by settlement with tax authorities or expiration of
statutes of limitations, could be materially different from estimates reflected in assets and liabilities and historical income tax provisions. The outcome of these final determinations could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net
income, or cash flows in the period in which that determination is made. We believe our tax positions comply with applicable tax law and that we have adequately accounted for uncertain tax positions.   
   Revenues by Segment/Operating Group       Our five reportable operating segments are our operating groups, which are Communications   High Tech, Financial Services, Health   Public Service, Products and Resources. Operating
groups are managed on the basis of net revenues because our management believes net revenues are a better indicator of operating group performance than revenues. In addition to reporting net revenues by operating group, we also report net revenues
by two types of work: consulting and outsourcing, which represent the services sold by our operating groups. Consulting net revenues, which include management and technology consulting and systems integration, reflect a finite, distinct project or
set of projects with a defined outcome and typically a defined set of specific deliverables. Outsourcing net revenues typically reflect ongoing, repeatable services or capabilities provided to transition, run and/or manage operations of client
systems or business functions.      From time to time, our operating groups work together to sell and implement
certain contracts. The resulting revenues and costs from these contracts may be apportioned among the participating operating groups. Generally, operating expenses for each operating group have similar characteristics and are subject to the same
factors, pressures and challenges. However, the economic environment and its effects on the industries served by our operating groups affect revenues and operating expenses within our operating groups to differing degrees. The mix between consulting
and outsourcing is not uniform among our operating groups. Local currency fluctuations also tend to affect our operating groups differently, depending on the geographic concentrations and locations of their businesses.   
  While we provide discussion about our results of operations below, we cannot measure how much of our revenue growth in a
particular period is attributable to changes in price or volume. Management does   
         48   

Table of Contents  

not track standard measures of unit or rate volume. Instead, our measures of volume and price are extremely complex, as each of our services contracts is unique, reflecting a customized mix of
specific services that does not fit into standard comparability measurements. Pricing for our services is a function of the nature of each service to be provided, the skills required and outcome sought, as well as estimated cost, risk, contract
terms and other factors.       Results of Operations for Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010    
  Net revenues (by operating group, geographic region and type of work) and reimbursements were as follows:   
   
        n/m = not meaningful       

(1)  
    May not total due to rounding.          

(2)  
    EMEA includes Europe, Middle East and Africa.      
  We conduct business in the following countries that individually comprised 10% or more of consolidated net revenues within
fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009:       
 
         49   

Table of Contents  

     Net Revenues     
  The following net revenues commentary discusses local currency net revenue changes for fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal
2010:        Operating Groups     

Communications   High Tech net revenues increased 14% in local currency. Consulting revenues reflected strong growth, driven by growth
across all geographic regions and industry groups, with the exception of Electronics   High Tech in Asia Pacific. Outsourcing revenues reflected very strong growth, driven by growth across all geographic regions and industry groups, with
the exception of Electronics   High Tech in EMEA.          

Financial Services net revenues increased 18% in local currency. Consulting revenues reflected very strong growth, driven by growth in Banking and
Insurance in EMEA and all industry groups in Americas, partially offset by a decline in Banking in Asia Pacific. Outsourcing revenues reflected significant growth, driven by growth across all geographic regions and industry groups, led by Americas
and EMEA.          

Health   Public Service net revenues increased 7% in local currency. Consulting revenues reflected growth in Americas and Asia Pacific,
with significant growth in Health, partially offset by a decline in Public Service in EMEA. The increase in consulting revenues was significantly impacted by a delivery inefficiency on a consulting contract in Public Service in Americas in fiscal
2010, which negatively affected revenues in that period. Outsourcing revenues increased due to growth in Americas, partially offset by a decrease in Public Service in EMEA and Asia Pacific. Outsourcing revenues also reflected revenues recognized
upon favorable resolution of billing holdbacks on certain contracts with United States government agencies. In addition, the uncertainty and challenges in the public sector, particularly in the United States, the United Kingdom and several other
countries, continue to have a significant impact on demand in our public service business. This had a negative impact on our revenues and new contract bookings in our public service business during fiscal 2011, and we expect this trend to continue.

Products net revenues increased 16% in local currency. Consulting revenues reflected significant growth, driven by growth across all geographic
regions and industry groups, led by Consumer Goods   Services and Automotive. Outsourcing revenues increased, driven by growth across all geographic regions and most industry groups, led by Retail in Americas and Asia Pacific and Air,
Freight   Travel Services in Americas and EMEA.          

Resources net revenues increased 21% in local currency. Consulting revenues reflected very significant growth, driven by growth across all
geographic regions and industry groups, led by Natural Resources and Energy. Outsourcing revenues increased, driven by growth in Energy and Natural Resources in Americas and Utilities and Energy in EMEA. Lower client demand for outsourcing services
resulted in moderation of outsourcing revenue growth in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 and a shift in the mix of work towards consulting. This trend is expected to continue for the near term.      
    Geographic Regions         

Americas net revenues increased 17% in local currency, led by the United States, Brazil and Canada.      

EMEA net revenues increased 11% in local currency, driven by growth in local currency in most countries, led by the United Kingdom, France, Germany,
Italy, South Africa and Switzerland.      
         50   

Table of Contents  

Asia Pacific net revenues increased 23% in local currency, led by Japan, Australia, Singapore, China and India.      
    Operating Expenses        Operating expenses for fiscal 2011 were $23,882 million, an increase of $3,703 million, or 18%, over fiscal 2010, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 87.3% from 87.4% during this period.
Operating expenses before reimbursable expenses for fiscal 2011 were $22,037 million, an increase of $3,401 million, or 18%, over fiscal 2010, and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to 86.4% from 86.5% during this period.   
    Cost of Services        Cost of services for fiscal 2011 was $18,966 million, an increase of $3,123 million, or 20%, over fiscal 2010, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 69.3% from 68.6% during this period. Cost of
services before reimbursable expenses for fiscal 2011 was $17,120 million, an increase of $2,820 million, or 20%, over fiscal 2010, and increased as a percentage of net revenues to 67.1% from 66.4% during this period. Gross margin for fiscal 2011
decreased to 32.9% from 33.6% during this period. Our contract profitability for fiscal 2011 was lower than the same period in fiscal 2010, as we continued our efforts to absorb higher annual compensation increases and subcontractor costs with
improved pricing and a more efficient resource mix. Gross margin also includes the impact of higher recruiting and training costs from the addition of a large number of new employees to meet demand.   
    Sales and Marketing     
  Sales and marketing expense for fiscal 2011 was $3,094 million, an increase of $436 million, or 16%, over fiscal 2010, and
decreased as a percentage of net revenues to 12.1% from 12.3% during this period.        General and
Administrative Costs        General and administrative costs for fiscal 2011 were $1,820 million, an increase
of $152 million, or 9%, over fiscal 2010, and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to 7.1% from 7.7% during this period. The decrease as a percentage of net revenues was primarily due to management of these costs at a growth rate lower than
that of net revenues, as well as a reduction in the allowance for client receivables and unbilled services due to better than expected bad debt experience, partially offset by a provision for litigation matters of $75 million.   
         51   

Table of Contents  

     Operating Income and Operating Margin     
  Operating income for fiscal 2011 was $3,470 million, an increase of $556 million, or 19%, over fiscal 2010, and increased
as a percentage of net revenues to 13.6% from 13.5% during this period. Operating income and operating margin for each of the operating groups were as follows:       

(1)  
    May not total due to rounding.         We estimate that the aggregate percentage impact of foreign currency exchange rates on our Operating income during fiscal 2011 was similar to that disclosed for Net revenues. During fiscal 2011, each
operating group benefited from our management of general and administrative costs at a growth rate lower than that of our net revenues, as well as a reduction in the bad debt reserve. In addition, in fiscal 2011 each operating group experienced
higher recruiting and training costs from the addition of a large number of new employees to meet demand and recorded a portion of the provision for litigation matters. The commentary below provides additional insight into operating group
performance and operating margin for fiscal 2011, compared with fiscal 2010, exclusive of these impacts.       

Communications   High Tech operating income increased, primarily due to revenue growth, partially offset by lower contract profitability.

Financial Services operating income increased, primarily due to very strong revenue growth, partially offset by lower outsourcing contract
profitability.          

Health   Public Service operating income increased due to revenue growth, including revenues recognized upon favorable resolution of
billing holdbacks on certain contracts with United States government agencies, partially offset by lower outsourcing contract profitability. Fiscal 2010 operating income included the negative impact of inefficient delivery on a few consulting
contracts in Public Service.          

Products operating income increased, primarily driven by revenue growth, partially offset by lower contract profitability. Products operating
results in both periods were also impacted by expected lower margins on certain contracts.          

Resources operating income increased, primarily driven by significant consulting revenue growth.      
    Interest Income        Interest income for fiscal 2011 was $41 million, an increase of $11 million, or 37%, over fiscal 2010. The increase was primarily due to higher interest rates and cash balances.   
         52   

Table of Contents  

     Other Income (Expense), net     
  Other income (expense), net for fiscal 2011 was $17 million, an increase of $32 million over fiscal 2010. The change was
driven by net foreign exchange gains during fiscal 2011, compared with net foreign exchange losses during fiscal 2010.   
    Provision for Income Taxes        The effective tax rate for fiscal 2011 was 27.3%, compared with 29.3% for fiscal 2010. The effective tax rate was lower in fiscal 2011 due to a number of factors that impact our geographic mix of income,
partially offset by a net increase in reserves related to ongoing tax audits.        Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling
Interests        Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests eliminates the income earned or expense
incurred attributable to the equity interest that some of our current and former senior executives and their permitted transferees have in our Accenture SCA and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. subsidiaries. See  Business Organizational
Structure.  The resulting Net income attributable to Accenture plc represents the income attributable to the shareholders of Accenture plc. Since January 2002, noncontrolling interests has also included immaterial amounts primarily attributable
to noncontrolling shareholders in our Avanade Inc. subsidiary.      Net income attributable to noncontrolling
interests for fiscal 2011 was $276 million, a decrease of $4 million, or 2%, from fiscal 2010. The decrease was due to a reduction in the Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares average
noncontrolling ownership interest to 10% for fiscal 2011 from 13% for fiscal 2010, partially offset by an increase in Net income of $493 million.        Earnings Per Share        Diluted earnings per share were
$3.40 for fiscal 2011, compared with $2.66 for fiscal 2010. The $0.74 increase in our earnings per share was due to increases of $0.42 from higher revenues and operating results in local currency, $0.11 from lower weighted average shares
outstanding, $0.09 from a lower effective tax rate, $0.08 from favorable foreign currency exchange rates and $0.04 from higher non-operating income, compared with fiscal 2010. For information regarding our earnings per share calculations, see Note 2
(Earnings Per Share) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.    
         53   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations for Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009    
  Net revenues (by operating group, geographic region and type of work) and reimbursements were as follows:   
   
        n/m = not meaningful       

(1)  
    May not total due to rounding.          

(2)  
    EMEA includes Europe, Middle East and Africa.           Net Revenues        The following net revenues commentary
discusses local currency net revenues changes in aggregate for fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009:   
    Operating Groups         

Communications   High Tech net revenues decreased 7% in local currency. Consulting revenues declined significantly in local currency,
primarily due to declines across all industry groups in EMEA and Asia Pacific. While the fiscal 2010 consulting revenues reflected a decline, strong year-over-year growth in the fourth quarter partially offset revenue declines in the first three
quarters of fiscal 2010. The consulting revenue decline reflected some clients continuing to seek flexibility by shifting to a more phased approach to contracting work and focusing on managing
     
         54   

Table of Contents  

the scope of existing projects. Outsourcing revenues declined modestly in local currency, primarily due to a significant decline in Communications in Americas, partially offset by growth in
Electronics   High Tech in Americas and Asia Pacific and Media   Entertainment in EMEA and Americas. Client strategy changes, which began in fiscal 2009, particularly in Communications, resulted in a number of contract
modifications, which had a negative impact on outsourcing revenues during fiscal 2010.          

Financial Services net revenues increased 1% in local currency. Year-over-year growth in the second half of fiscal 2010 more than offset revenue
declines in the first half of fiscal 2010. Consulting revenues increased in local currency, primarily driven by growth in Banking across all geographic regions and Capital Markets in EMEA and Asia Pacific, partially offset by declines in Insurance
in EMEA and Americas. Outsourcing revenues declined significantly in local currency, primarily due to declines in Banking in EMEA and Americas, partially offset by growth in Insurance in EMEA. Modest year-over-year outsourcing growth in the fourth
quarter partially offset revenue declines in the first three quarters of fiscal 2010. Client consolidations and strategy changes that resulted in contract terminations in fiscal 2009 had a negative impact on our outsourcing revenue in fiscal 2010.

Health   Public Service net revenues declined 4% in local currency. Consulting revenues declined in local currency, primarily due to a
decline in Public Service in Americas, principally due to the impact of inefficient delivery on a contract, and declines in Health in Americas and EMEA and Public Service in Asia Pacific. Outsourcing revenues increased modestly in local currency,
primarily driven by growth in Americas in Health and Public Service. In addition, the growing uncertainty and challenges in the public sector, particularly in the United States and the United Kingdom and several other countries in Europe, continued
to have a significant impact on demand in our public service business throughout the world. The uncertainty of the economic situation resulted in longer sales cycles and a shift to a more phased approach to contracting work, with a focus on
near-term cost savings rather than large transformational projects.          

Products net revenues increased 1% in local currency. Year-over-year growth in the second half of fiscal 2010 more than offset revenue declines in
the first half of fiscal 2010. Consulting revenues declined modestly in local currency, primarily due to declines in EMEA and Americas across all industry groups except Consumer Goods   Services, which experienced significant growth in
Americas. Consulting revenues reflected the continuation of the more conservative spending patterns of our clients, which began in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. In addition, consulting revenues were negatively impacted by a significant
reduction in revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 at two large clients as a result of completing several large projects and transitioning from front-end consulting to outsourcing services. Outsourcing revenues increased in local currency,
primarily driven by growth across all geographic regions and across all industry groups except Retail in Americas and Asia Pacific.          

Resources net revenues decreased 2% in local currency. While the fiscal 2010 net revenues reflected a decline, year-over-year growth in the second
half of fiscal 2010 partially offset revenue declines in the first half of fiscal 2010. Consulting revenues declined modestly in local currency, primarily due to declines in EMEA across all industry groups and in Utilities in Americas and Asia
Pacific, partially offset by growth in Energy in Americas. Consulting revenues were impacted by our clients  continued caution in launching new programs as well as their focus on slowing the pace of existing projects. Outsourcing revenues
increased modestly in local currency, primarily driven by growth in Energy in Americas and Natural Resources in Asia Pacific, partially offset by declines in Utilities and Chemicals in Americas.      
         55   

Table of Contents  

     Geographic Regions     

Americas net revenues decreased 1% in local currency. While the fiscal 2010 net revenues reflected a decline, year-over-year growth in the second
half of fiscal 2010, particularly in the United States, partially offset revenue declines in the first half of fiscal 2010. We experienced declines in local currency across most countries in Americas, principally due to decreases in the United
States and Brazil.          

EMEA net revenues decreased 4% in local currency. While the fiscal 2010 net revenues reflected a decline, year-over-year growth in the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2010 partially offset revenue declines in the first three quarters of fiscal 2010. We experienced declines in local currency across many countries in EMEA, principally due to decreases in the Netherlands, Germany, Spain, Italy and
France. These declines were partially offset by growth in several countries, led by the United Kingdom.          

Asia Pacific net revenues increased 1% in local currency. Year-over-year growth in the second half of fiscal 2010 more than offset revenue declines
in the first half of fiscal 2010. Growth in local currency was principally driven by our business in Singapore and Malaysia, partially offset by declines in Australia and Japan.      
    Operating Expenses        Operating expenses for fiscal 2010 were $20,179 million, a decrease of $348 million, or 2%, from fiscal 2009, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 87.4% from 88.6% during this period. Operating
expenses before reimbursable expenses for fiscal 2010 were $18,636 million, a decrease of $297 million, or 2%, from fiscal 2009, and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to 86.5% from 87.7% during this period.   
    Cost of Services        Cost of services for fiscal 2010 was $15,843 million, a decrease of $487 million, or 3%, from fiscal 2009, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 68.6% from 70.5% during this period. Cost of
services before reimbursable expenses for fiscal 2010 was $14,300 million, a decrease of $436 million, or 3%, from fiscal 2009, and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to 66.4% from 68.3% during this period. Gross margin for fiscal 2010
increased to 33.6% from 31.7% during this period. The primary driver for the increase in gross margin for fiscal 2010 was a change related to the implementation of our sales-effectiveness model, which directed a higher percentage of resource
capacity to selling and other business-development activities and streamlined our approach to capturing time spent on business-development activities.        Sales and Marketing        Sales and marketing expense for
fiscal 2010 was $2,658 million, an increase of $499 million, or 23%, over fiscal 2009, and increased as a percentage of net revenues to 12.3% from 10.0% during this period. The increase as a percentage of net revenues was primarily driven by a
change related to the implementation of our sales-effectiveness model, which directed a higher percentage of resource capacity to selling and other business-development activities and streamlined our approach to capturing time spent on
business-development activities.   
         56   

Table of Contents  

     General and Administrative Costs     
  General and administrative costs for fiscal 2010 were $1,668 million, a decrease of $120 million, or 7%, from fiscal 2009,
and decreased as a percentage of net revenues to 7.7% from 8.3% during this period. The decrease as a percentage of net revenues was primarily due to the $72 million bad debt provision recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, as well as expense
savings resulting from the global consolidation of office space in fiscal 2009.        Reorganization and
Restructuring Costs, net        We recorded net reorganization costs of $10 million for fiscal 2010,
compared with net reorganization benefits of $3 million for fiscal 2009. In fiscal 2001, we accrued reorganization liabilities in connection with our transition to a corporate structure. For additional information, refer to Note 3
(Reorganization and Restructuring Costs, net) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.    
  We recorded restructuring costs of $253 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. These costs included $111 million
related to global consolidation of our office space and $142 million related to realignment of our workforce, primarily at the senior-executive level, to reset our cost structure and better align our organization for the future.   
    Operating Income and Operating Margin     
  Operating income for fiscal 2010 was $2,915 million, an increase of $271 million, or 10%, over fiscal 2009, and increased
as percentage of net revenues to 13.5% from 12.3% during this period. The restructuring costs of $253 million recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 reduced Operating margin by 110 basis points for fiscal 2009. Excluding the effects of the
restructuring costs in fiscal 2009, Operating income as a percentage of net revenues for fiscal 2010 increased 10 basis points compared with fiscal 2009. Operating income and operating margin for each of the operating groups were as follows:

57   

Table of Contents  

     Operating Income and Operating Margin Excluding Restructuring Costs (Non-GAAP)
        FY10 Operating Income as Reported (GAAP) compared to    
   FY09 Operating Income Excluding Restructuring Costs (Non-GAAP)    

(1)  
    May not total due to rounding.          

(2)  
    Represents restructuring costs related to reducing excess real estate capacity and to realign the workforce incurred during the fourth quarter of
fiscal year 2009. We have presented Operating income and operating margin excluding restructuring costs, because the restructuring costs meaningfully affect the comparability of our results of operations between periods. We believe that providing
investors with this information gives additional insights into our ongoing results of operations.         We estimate that the aggregate percentage impact of foreign currency exchange rates on our Operating income during fiscal 2010 was similar to that disclosed for Net revenues. In fiscal 2009, each
operating group recorded a portion of the $72 million bad debt provision recorded in the first quarter and the $253 million restructuring cost recorded in the fourth quarter. Additionally, in fiscal 2010, each operating group experienced expense
savings resulting from the global consolation of office space in fiscal 2009. See   General and Administrative Costs  and   Reorganization and Restructuring Costs, net.  The commentary below provides additional insight
into operating group performance and operating margin for fiscal 2010, compared with fiscal 2009, exclusive of foreign currency exchange rates, bad debt provision and restructuring cost impacts.   

Communications   High Tech operating income decreased, primarily due to revenue declines and higher selling costs as a percentage of net
revenues, offset by improved outsourcing contract profitability.          

Financial Services operating income increased, primarily driven by consulting revenue growth, improved utilization and outsourcing contract
profitability, partially offset by a decline related to lower outsourcing revenues.          

Health   Public Service operating income decreased, primarily due to inefficient delivery on a few consulting contracts, higher selling
costs as a percentage of net revenues and lower consulting contract profitability. In addition, fiscal 2009 results were favorably impacted by the resolution of a contract termination.      

Products operating income was flat, as an increase related to higher outsourcing revenues was offset by a decline related to lower consulting
revenues, lower consulting contract profitability and higher selling costs as a percentage of net revenues.          

Resources operating income increased, primarily driven by improved utilization, partially offset by a decline related to lower consulting revenues.
     
         58   

Table of Contents  

     Interest Income     
  Interest income was $30 million in fiscal 2010, a decrease of $20 million, or 40%, from fiscal 2009. The
decrease was primarily due to lower interest rates.        Other Expense, net     
  Other expense, net was $16 million in fiscal 2010, an increase of $12 million over fiscal 2009. The change was driven by
higher net foreign currency exchange losses during fiscal 2010.        Provision for Income Taxes     
  The effective tax rates for fiscal 2010 and 2009 were 29.3% and 27.6%, respectively. The effective tax rate increased in
fiscal 2010 primarily as a result of lower benefits related to adjustments to prior-year tax liabilities in fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009, partially offset by changes in the geographic distribution of income.   
    Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests     
  Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was $280 million in fiscal 2010, a decrease of $68 million, or 20%,
from fiscal 2009. The decrease was due to a reduction in the Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares average noncontrolling ownership interest to 13% for fiscal 2010 from 17% for fiscal 2009.
       Earnings Per Share        Diluted earnings per share were $2.66 for fiscal 2010, compared with $2.44 for fiscal 2009. The $0.22 increase in fiscal 2010 earnings per share compared with fiscal 2009 earnings per share was primarily
due to the following: a $0.24 increase reflecting the impact of the restructuring charge recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009; a $0.07 increase from a lower share count; and a $0.06 increase from favorable foreign exchange rates. These
increases were partially offset by the following: a $0.04 decrease from lower revenue and operating income in local currency; a $0.01 decrease from lower reorganization benefits; a $0.03 decrease from lower non-operating items; and a $0.07 decrease
from a higher effective income tax rate. For information regarding our earnings per share calculations, see Note 2 (Earnings Per Share) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data.        Liquidity and Capital Resources       Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, available cash reserves and debt capacity available under various credit facilities. In addition, we could raise additional funds through
public or private debt or equity financings. We may use our available or additional funds to:       

take advantage of opportunities, including more rapid expansion;      

acquire complementary businesses or technologies;          

develop new services and solutions; or          

facilitate purchases, redemptions and exchanges of Accenture shares.      
  As of August 31, 2011, cash and cash equivalents was $5.7 billion, compared with $4.8 billion as of
August 31, 2010.   
         59   

Table of Contents  

   Cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected
in our Consolidated Cash Flows Statements, are summarized in the following table:       

(1)  
    May not total due to rounding.           Operating activities:      The $350 million increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to higher net income and changes in other operating
assets and liabilities, partially offset by an increase in net client balances (receivables from clients, current and non-current unbilled services and deferred revenues).   
    Investing activities:      The $430 million increase in cash used was primarily due
to increased spending on business acquisitions and property and equipment. For additional information, see Note 6 (Business Combinations and Goodwill) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data.         Financing activities:      The $308 million decrease
in cash used was primarily due to lower cash dividends paid as a result of our transition to semi-annual dividend payments. For additional information, see Note 13 (Material Transactions Affecting Shareholders  Equity) to our Consolidated
Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.       We believe
that our available cash balances and the cash flows expected to be generated from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our current and planned working capital and investment needs for the next twelve months. We also believe that our longer-term
working capital and other general corporate funding requirements will be satisfied through cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, from our borrowing facilities and future financial market activities.   
         60   

Table of Contents  

     Borrowing Facilities     
  As of August 31, 2011, we had the following borrowing facilities, including the issuance of letters of credit, to
support general working capital purposes:       

Facility Amount   

Borrowings Under  Facilities   

(in millions of U.S. dollars)   

Syndicated loan facility(1)   
      
  $  
  1,200  

$  

Separate, uncommitted, unsecured multicurrency revolving credit facilities(2)   

480  

Local guaranteed and non-guaranteed lines of credit(3)   

169  

Total   
      
  $  
  1,849  

$  

(1)  
    This facility, which matures on July 31, 2012, provides unsecured, revolving borrowing capacity for general working capital purposes, including
the issuance of letters of credit. Financing is provided under this facility at the prime rate or at the London Interbank Offered Rate plus a spread. We continue to be in compliance with relevant covenant terms. The facility is subject to annual
commitment fees. As of August 31, 2011 and 2010, we had no borrowings under the facility.          

(2)  
    We maintain separate, uncommitted and unsecured multicurrency revolving credit facilities. These facilities provide local-currency financing for the
majority of our operations. Interest rate terms on the revolving facilities are at market rates prevailing in the relevant local markets. As of August 31, 2011 and 2010, we had no borrowings under these facilities.      

(3)  
    We also maintain local guaranteed and non-guaranteed lines of credit for those locations that cannot access our global facilities. As of
August 31, 2011 and 2010, we had no borrowings under these various facilities.         Under
the borrowing facilities described above, we had an aggregate of $178 million and $152 million of letters of credit outstanding as of August 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In addition, we had total outstanding debt of $4 million and
$2 million as of August 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.        Share Purchases and Redemptions     
  The Board of Directors of Accenture plc has authorized funding for our publicly announced open-market share purchase
program for acquiring Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and for purchases and redemptions of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares held by
our current and former senior executives and their permitted transferees. As of August 31, 2011, our aggregate available authorization was $1,042 million for our publicly announced open-market share purchase and these other share purchase
programs.      Our share purchase activity during fiscal 2011 was as follows:   

(1)  
    We conduct a publicly announced, open-market share purchase program for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares. These shares are held as
treasury shares by Accenture plc and may be utilized to provide for select employee benefits, such as equity awards to our employees.          

(2)  
    During fiscal 2011, as authorized under our various employee equity share plans, we acquired Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares primarily
via share withholding for payroll tax obligations due from employees and former employees in connection with the delivery of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares under those plans. These purchases of shares in connection with employee share
plans do not affect our aggregate available authorization for our publicly announced open-market share purchase and the other share purchase programs.          

(3)  
    May not total due to rounding.      
         61   

Table of Contents  

   We intend to continue to use a significant portion of cash generated from
operations for share repurchases during fiscal 2012. The number of shares ultimately repurchased under our open-market share purchase program may vary depending on numerous factors, including, without limitation, share price and other market
conditions, our ongoing capital allocation planning, the levels of cash and debt balances, other demands for cash, such as acquisition activity, general economic and/or business conditions, and board and management discretion. Additionally, as these
factors may change over the course of the year, the amount of share repurchase activity during any particular period cannot be predicted, and may fluctuate from time to time. Share repurchases may be made from time to time through open-market
purchases, in respect of purchases and redemptions of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares, through the use of Rule 10b5-1 plans and/or by other means. The repurchase program may be accelerated,
suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time, without notice.        Other Share Redemptions     
  During fiscal 2011, we issued 6,837,070 Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares upon redemptions of an equivalent
number of Accenture SCA Class I common shares pursuant to our registration statement on Form S-3 (the  registration statement ). The registration statement allows us, at our option, to issue freely tradable Accenture plc Class A
ordinary shares in lieu of cash upon redemptions of Accenture SCA Class I common shares held by senior executives, former executives and their permitted transferees.       Subsequent Developments       On September 26, 2011, the
Board of Directors of Accenture plc declared a semi-annual cash dividend of $0.675 per share on our Class A ordinary shares for shareholders of record at the close of business on October 14, 2011. Accenture plc will cause Accenture SCA to
declare a semi-annual cash dividend of $0.675 per share on its Class I common shares for shareholders of record at the close of business on October 11, 2011. Both dividends are payable on November 15, 2011.   
  On September 26, 2011, the Board of Directors of Accenture plc approved $5.0 billion in additional share repurchase
authority bringing Accenture s total outstanding authority to approximately $6.0 billion.   
         62   

Table of Contents  

    Obligations and Commitments    
  As of August 31, 2011, we had the following obligations and commitments to make future payments under contracts,
contractual obligations and commercial commitments:       

(1)  
    The liability related to unrecognized tax benefits has been excluded from the contractual obligations table because a reasonable estimate of the
timing and amount of cash out flows from future tax settlements cannot be determined. For additional information, refer to Note 9 (Income Taxes) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data.           

(2)  
    In fiscal 2001, we accrued reorganization liabilities in connection with our transition to a corporate structure. As of August 31, 2011, the
remaining liability for reorganization costs was $307 million, of which $295 million was classified as Other accrued liabilities because expirations of statutes of limitations or other final determinations could occur within 12 months. The
reorganization liabilities have been excluded from the contractual obligations table because a reasonable estimate of the timing and amount of cash out flows from future tax settlements cannot be determined. Timing of the resolution of tax audits or
the initiation of additional litigation and/or criminal tax proceedings may delay final resolution. Final settlement will result in a payment on a final settlement and/or recording a reorganization cost or benefit in our Consolidated Income
Statement. For additional information, refer to Note 3 (Reorganization and Restructuring Costs, net) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

(3)  
    Amounts represent projected payments under certain unfunded retirement plans for former pre-incorporation partners. Given these plans are unfunded,
we pay these benefits directly. These plans were eliminated for active partners after May 15, 2001.          

(4)  
    Other commitments include, among other things, information technology, software support and maintenance obligations, as well as other obligations in
the ordinary course of business that we cannot cancel or where we would be required to pay a termination fee in the event of cancellation. Amounts shown do not include recourse that we may have to recover termination fees or penalties from clients.

(5)  
    May not total due to rounding.          Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements       In the normal course of
business and in conjunction with some client engagements, we have entered into contractual arrangements through which we may be obligated to indemnify clients with respect to certain matters. These arrangements with clients can include provisions
whereby we have joint and several liability in relation to the performance of certain contractual obligations along with third parties also providing services and products for a specific project. Indemnification provisions are also included in
arrangements under which we agree to hold the indemnified party harmless with respect to third party claims related to such matters as title to assets sold or licensed or certain intellectual property rights.   
  Typically, we have contractual recourse against third parties for certain payments made by us in connection with
arrangements where third party nonperformance has given rise to the client s claim. Payments by us under any of the arrangements described above are generally conditioned on the client making a claim which may be disputed by us typically under
dispute resolution procedures specified in the particular arrangement. The limitations of liability under these arrangements may be expressly limited or may not be expressly specified in terms of time and/or amount.   
  For arrangements with unspecified limitations, we cannot reasonably estimate the aggregate maximum potential liability, as
it is inherently difficult to predict the maximum potential amount of such payments, due to the conditional nature and unique facts of each particular arrangement.   
  To date, we have not been required to make any significant payment under any of the arrangements described above. For
further discussion of these transactions, see Note 15 (Commitments and Contingencies) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.    
         63   

Table of Contents  

    Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements    
  In September 2010, we adopted guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board on revenue recognition
guidance for arrangements with multiple deliverables. The guidance eliminates the residual method of allocation in previous guidance; requires that arrangement considerations be allocated at the inception of the arrangement to all deliverables using
the relative selling price; and requires a vendor to use estimates of a selling price developed in a manner that is consistent with that used to determine the price to sell the deliverable on a standalone basis for all deliverables that meet the
remaining separation criteria when vendor-specific objective evidence and third-party evidence, respectively, do not exist as estimates of selling price. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial
Statements under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.    
     ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK    
  All of our market risk sensitive instruments were entered into for purposes other than trading.   
   Foreign Currency Risk       We are exposed to foreign currency risk in the ordinary course of business. We hedge material cash flow exposures when feasible using forward contracts. These instruments are subject to fluctuations in
foreign currency exchange rates and credit risk. Credit risk is managed through careful selection and ongoing evaluation of the financial institutions utilized as counterparties.   
  Certain of these hedge positions are undesignated hedges of balance sheet exposures such as intercompany loans and
typically have maturities of less than one year. These hedges primarily U.S. dollar/Indian rupee, U.S. dollar/Swiss franc, U.S. dollar/Japanese yen, U.S. dollar/Australian dollar, U.S. dollar/Euro, U.S. dollar/Philippine peso, U.S.
dollar/Singapore dollar and U.S. dollar/Norwegian krone are intended to offset remeasurement of the underlying assets and liabilities. Changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recorded in Other expense, net in the Consolidated Income
Statement. Additionally, we have hedge positions that are designated cash flow hedges of certain intercompany charges relating to our Global Delivery Network. These hedges U.S. dollar/Indian rupee, U.S. dollar/Philippine peso, U.K. pound/Indian
rupee and Euro/Indian rupee, which typically have maturities not exceeding three years are intended to partially offset the impact of foreign currency movements on future costs relating to resources supplied by Accenture s Global Delivery
Network.      For designated cash flow hedges, gains and losses currently recorded in Accumulated Other
Comprehensive Loss will be reclassified into earnings at the time when certain anticipated intercompany charges are accrued as Cost of Services. As of August 31, 2011, it was anticipated that $9 million of the net gains, net of tax
currently recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss will be reclassified into Cost of Services within the next 12 months.      We use sensitivity analysis to determine the effects that market foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may have on the fair value of our hedge portfolio. The sensitivity of the hedge portfolio is
computed based on the market value of future cash flows as affected by changes in exchange rates. This sensitivity analysis represents the hypothetical changes in value of the hedge position and does not reflect the offsetting gain or loss on the
underlying exposure. A 10% change in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar (or other base currency of the hedge if not a U.S. dollar hedge) with all other variables held constant would have resulted in a change
in the fair value of our hedge instruments of approximately $358 million and $218 million as of August 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
         64   

Table of Contents  

    Interest Rate Risk    
  The interest rate risk associated with our borrowing and investing activities as of August 31, 2011 is not material
in relation to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. While we may do so in the future, we have not used derivative financial instruments to alter the interest rate characteristics of our investment holdings or
debt instruments.       Equity Price Risk       The equity price risk associated with our marketable equity securities that are subject to market price volatility is not material in relation to our consolidated financial position, results of operations
or cash flows.       

ITEM 8.   
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA         See the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and financial statements commencing on page F-1.       

ITEM 9.   
     CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE       
  None.       

ITEM 9A.   
   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES          (a)
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures       An evaluation was performed under the supervision and
with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act) as of
the end of the period covered by this report. Any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. Based on that evaluation, the principal executive
officer and the principal financial officer of Accenture plc have concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures are effective at the reasonable assurance level.   
   (b) Management s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting    
  Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that:       

(i)  
    pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of our assets;

(ii)  
    provide reasonable assurance that the transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with the authorization of management and/or our Board of Directors; and      

(iii)  
    provide reasonable assurance regarding the prevention or timely detection of any unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that
could have a material effect on our financial statements.         Due to its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate due to changes in conditions, or
that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   
         65   

Table of Contents  

   Under the supervision and with the participation of our management,
including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting using the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control Integrated Framework. Based on its evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of the end of the period covered by this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.      KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the
Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and, as part of their audit, has issued its attestation report, included herein, on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. See
 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  on page F-2.       (c) Changes in Internal Control over Financial
Reporting       There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.         ITEM 9B.    OTHER INFORMATION       None.   
         66   

Table of Contents  

    PART III    

ITEM 10.   
   DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE         There have been no material changes to the procedures by which security holders may recommend nominees to our Board of Directors from those described in the Proxy Statement for our Annual General Meeting
of Shareholders filed with the SEC on December 20, 2010.      Information about our executive officers is
contained in the discussion entitled  Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Part I of this Form 10-K. The remaining information called for by Item 10 will be included in the sections captioned  Board and Corporate Governance
Matters Director Biographies,   Board and Corporate Governance Matters Board Meetings and Committees,   Board and Corporate Governance Matters Audit Committee  and  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance  included in the definitive proxy statement relating to the 2012 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of Accenture plc to be held on February 9, 2012 and is incorporated herein by reference. Accenture plc will file
such definitive proxy statement with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of the Company s 2011 fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K.       

ITEM 11.   
   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION         The information called for by Item 11 will be included in the sections captioned  Compensation of Executive Officers and Directors,   Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
Participation  and  Reports of the Committees of the Board Compensation Committee Report  included in the definitive proxy statement relating to the 2012 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of Accenture plc to be held on
February 9, 2012 and is incorporated herein by reference. Accenture plc will file such definitive proxy statement with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of the Company s 2011 fiscal year covered by this Form
10-K.   
         67   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 12.   
   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS      
   Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans    
  The following table sets forth, as of August 31, 2011, certain information related to our compensation plans under
which Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares may be issued.       

The remaining information called for by Item 12 will be included in the sections
captioned  Beneficial Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers  and  Beneficial Ownership of More Than Five Percent of Any Class of Voting Securities  included in the definitive proxy statement relating to the 2012 Annual
General Meeting of Shareholders of Accenture plc to be held on February 9, 2012 and is incorporated herein by reference. Accenture plc will file such definitive proxy statement with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after
the end of the Company s 2011 fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K.        
 ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE       The information called for by Item 13 herein included in the sections captioned  Board and Corporate Governance Matters Director Independence  and  Board and Corporate Governance
Matters Certain Relationships and Related Person Transactions  included in the definitive proxy statement relating to the 2012 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of Accenture plc to be held on February 9, 2012 and is incorporated
herein by reference. Accenture plc will file such definitive proxy statement with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of the Company s 2011 fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K.   
     ITEM 14.    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES    
  The information called for by Item 14 will be included in the sections captioned  Independent Auditors 
Fees  included in the definitive proxy statement relating to the 2012 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of Accenture plc to be held on February 9, 2012 and is incorporated herein by reference. Accenture plc will file such definitive
proxy statement with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of the Company s 2011 fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K.   
         68   

Table of Contents  

    PART IV          ITEM 15.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES       (a) List of documents filed as part of this report:   
  1.    Financial Statements as of August 31, 2011 and August 31, 2010 and for the three years ended
August 31, 2011 Included in Part II of this Form 10-K:      Consolidated Balance
Sheets      Consolidated Income Statements   
  Consolidated Shareholders  Equity and Comprehensive Income Statements   
  Consolidated Cash Flows Statements   
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  2.    Financial Statement Schedules:   
  None      3.    Exhibit Index:       
 
         69   

Table of Contents  

70   

Table of Contents  

(*)  
    Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.      
  The agreements and other documents filed as exhibits to this report are not intended to provide factual information or
other disclosure other than with respect to the terms of the agreements or other documents themselves, and you should not rely on them for that purpose. In particular, any representations and warranties made by us in these agreements or other
documents were made solely within the specific context of the relevant agreement or document and may not describe the actual state of affairs of the date they were made or at any other time.   
         71   

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf on October 21, 2011 by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.        

A CCENTURE   PLC    

By:   
     
    /s/    P IERRE  N ANTERME     

Name: Pierre Nanterme     Title: Chief Executive Officer    
 
    POWER OF ATTORNEY    
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below hereby constitutes and appoints Pierre
Nanterme, Pamela J. Craig and Julie Spellman Sweet, and each of them, as his or her true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with power to act with or without the others and with full power of substitution and resubstitution, to do any and all
acts and things and to execute any and all instruments which said attorneys and agents and each of them may deem necessary or desirable to enable the registrant to comply with the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any rules,
regulations and requirements of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder in connection with the registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2011 (the  Annual Report ),
including specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, power and authority to sign the name of the registrant and the name of the undersigned, individually and in his or her capacity as a director or officer of the registrant,
to the Annual Report as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, to any and all amendments thereto, and to any and all instruments or documents filed as part thereof or in connection therewith; and each of the undersigned hereby
ratifies and confirms all that said attorneys and agents and each of them shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below on October 21, 2011 by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities
indicated.       

Signature    
      
     Title     

/s/    P IERRE  N ANTERME   
   Pierre Nanterme    
      
    Chief Executive Officer and Director  
  (principal executive officer)    

/s/    P AMELA  J. C RAIG   
   Pamela J. Craig    
      
    Chief Financial Officer     (principal financial officer)    

/s/    A NTHONY  G. C OUGHLAN   
   Anthony G. Coughlan    
      
    Chief Accounting Officer     (principal accounting officer)    

/s/    W ILLIAM  D. G REEN   
   William D. Green    
      
  Chairman of the Board and Director   

/s/    D INA  D UBLON   
   Dina Dublon    
      
  Director    
         72   

Table of Contents  

Signature    
      
     Title     

/s/    C HARLES  G IANCARLO   
   Charles Giancarlo    
      
  Director   

/s/    D ENNIS  F. H IGHTOWER   
   Dennis F. Hightower    
      
  Director   

/s/    N OBUYUKI  I DEI   
   Nobuyuki Idei    
      
  Director   

/s/    W ILLIAM  L. K IMSEY   
   William L. Kimsey    
      
  Director   

/s/    R OBERT  I. L IPP   
   Robert I. Lipp    
      
  Director   

/s/    M ARJORIE  M AGNER   
   Marjorie Magner    
      
  Director   

/s/    B LYTHE  J.
M C G ARVIE       Blythe J. McGarvie    
      
  Director   

/s/    S IR  M ARK 
M OODY -S TUART       Sir Mark Moody-Stuart    
      
  Director   

/s/    W ULF   VON 
S CHIMMELMANN       Wulf von Schimmelmann    
      
  Director   
 
         73   

Table of Contents  

    EXHIBIT INDEX    

74   

Table of Contents  

75   

Table of Contents  

(*)  
    Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.      
  The agreements and other documents filed as exhibits to this report are not intended to provide factual information or
other disclosure other than with respect to the terms of the agreements or other documents themselves, and you should not rely on them for that purpose. In particular, any representations and warranties made by us in these agreements or other
documents were made solely within the specific context of the relevant agreement or document and may not describe the actual state of affairs of the date they were made or at any other time.   
         76   

Table of Contents  

      ACCENTURE PLC    
   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        

Page   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    

F-2  

Consolidated Financial Statements as of August 31, 2011 and 2010 and for the three years ended August 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009:   

Consolidated Balance Sheets    

F-3  

Consolidated Income Statements    

F-4  

Consolidated Shareholders  Equity and Comprehensive Income Statements    

F-5  

Consolidated Cash Flows Statements    

F-8  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    

F-9  

F-1

Table of Contents  

      Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
       The Board of Directors and Shareholders        Accenture plc:       We have audited the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets of Accenture plc and its subsidiaries as of August 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related Consolidated Statements of Income, Shareholders  Equity and Comprehensive Income, and Cash Flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended August 31, 2011. We also have audited Accenture plc s internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2011, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Accenture plc s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for
its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting (Item 9A(b)). Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these consolidated financial statements and an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinions.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could
have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Accenture plc and its subsidiaries as of August 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years
in the three-year period ended August 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, Accenture plc maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
August 31, 2011, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.   
  The Company, as of September 1, 2009, adopted guidance on noncontrolling interests and business combinations.
     /s/ KPMG LLP      Chicago, Illinois
     October 21, 2011   
         F-2

Table of Contents  

      ACCENTURE PLC    
    CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS    
    August 31, 2011 and 2010        (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts)        
 
   The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         F-3

Table of Contents  

      ACCENTURE PLC    
    CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS    
    For the Years Ended August 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts)    

The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         F-4

Table of Contents  

      ACCENTURE PLC    
    CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME STATEMENTS    
    For the Years Ended August 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars and share amounts)        
 
         F-5

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
   For the Years Ended August 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009        (In thousands of U.S. dollars and share amounts)          

F-6

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
   For the Years Ended August 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009        (In thousands of U.S. dollars and share amounts)          

The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         F-7

Table of Contents  

      ACCENTURE PLC    
    CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS    
    For the Years Ended August 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars)        
 
   The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         F-8

Table of Contents  

      ACCENTURE PLC    
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
    1.    SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES    
    Description of Business       Accenture plc is one of the world s leading management consulting, technology services and outsourcing organizations and operates globally with one common brand and business model designed to enable
it to provide clients around the world with the same high level of service. Drawing on a combination of industry expertise, functional capabilities, alliances, global resources and technology, Accenture plc delivers competitively priced, high-value
services that help clients measurably improve business performance. Accenture plc s global delivery model enables it to provide a complete end-to-end delivery capability by drawing on its global resources to deliver high-quality, cost-effective
solutions to clients under demanding timeframes.       Principles of Consolidation    
  The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Accenture plc, an Irish company, and its controlled
subsidiary companies (collectively, the  Company ). Accenture plc s only business is to hold Class I common shares in, and to act as the sole general partner of, its subsidiary, Accenture SCA, a Luxembourg partnership limited by
shares. The Company operates its business through Accenture SCA and subsidiaries of Accenture SCA. Accenture plc controls Accenture SCA s management and operations and consolidates Accenture SCA s results in its Consolidated Financial
Statements.      The shares of Accenture SCA and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. held by persons other than the
Company are treated as a noncontrolling interest in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The noncontrolling interest percentages were 9% and 11% as of August 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Purchases and/or redemptions of Accenture SCA
Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares are accounted for at carryover basis.      All references to years, unless otherwise noted, refer to the Company s fiscal year, which ends on August 31. For example, a reference to  fiscal 2011  means the 12-month period that
ended on August 31, 2011. All references to quarters, unless otherwise noted, refer to the quarters of the Company s fiscal year.   
   Reincorporation in Ireland       On June 10, 2009, Accenture plc was incorporated in Ireland, as a public limited company, in order to effect moving the place of incorporation of the Company s parent holding company from
Bermuda to Ireland (the  Transaction ). On August 5, 2009, the shareholders of Accenture Ltd, the Company s predecessor holding company, voted in favor of the Transaction. The Transaction was subsequently completed on
September 1, 2009, following approval from the Supreme Court of Bermuda, at which time Accenture Ltd became a wholly owned subsidiary of Accenture plc and Accenture plc became the Company s parent holding company. Accenture Ltd was
dissolved on December 22, 2009.       Use of Estimates    
  The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying disclosures. Although these estimates are based on management s best knowledge of current
events and actions that the Company may undertake in the future, actual results may be different from those estimates.   
         F-9

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
    Reclassifications    
  Certain amounts reported in previous years have been reclassified to conform to the fiscal 2011 presentation. In addition,
on September 1, 2009, the Company streamlined its approach to capturing time spent on business-development activities. This resulted in a greater amount of payroll costs for the Company s client-services personnel being recorded in Sales
and marketing rather than Cost of services. The Company has not reclassified fiscal 2009 amounts to conform to the fiscal 2011 and 2010 presentation, as it would be impractical to do so.       Revenue Recognition       Revenues from contracts for technology
integration consulting services where the Company designs/redesigns, builds and implements new or enhanced systems applications and related processes for its clients are recognized on the percentage-of-completion method, which involves calculating
the percentage of services provided during the reporting period compared to the total estimated services to be provided over the duration of the contract. Contracts for technology integration consulting generally span one to two years. Estimated
revenues used in applying the percentage-of-completion method include estimated incentives for which achievement of defined goals is deemed probable. This method is followed where reasonably dependable estimates of revenues and costs can be made.
Estimates of total contract revenues and costs are continuously monitored during the term of the contract, and recorded revenues and estimated costs are subject to revision as the contract progresses. Such revisions may result in increases or
decreases to revenues and income and are reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements in the periods in which they are first identified. If the Company s estimates indicate that a contract loss will occur, a loss provision is recorded in
the period in which the loss first becomes probable and reasonably estimable. Contract losses are determined to be the amount by which the estimated direct and indirect costs of the contract exceed the estimated total revenues that will be generated
by the contract and are included in Cost of services and classified in Other accrued liabilities.      Revenues
from contracts for non-technology integration consulting services with fees based on time and materials or cost-plus are recognized as the services are performed and amounts are earned in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
 SEC ) Staff Accounting Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 101,   Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements   ( SAB 101 ), as amended by SAB No. 104,   Revenue Recognition 
 ( SAB 104 ). The Company considers amounts to be earned once evidence of an arrangement has been obtained, services are delivered, fees are fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. In such contracts, the
Company s efforts, measured by time incurred, typically are provided in less than a year and represent the contractual milestones or output measure, which is the contractual earnings pattern. For non-technology integration consulting contracts
with fixed fees, the Company recognizes revenues as amounts become billable in accordance with contract terms, provided the billable amounts are not contingent, are consistent with the services delivered, and are earned. Contingent or incentive
revenues relating to non-technology integration consulting contracts are recognized when the contingency is satisfied and the Company concludes the amounts are earned.   
  Outsourcing contracts typically span several years and involve complex delivery, often through multiple workforces in
different countries. In a number of these arrangements, the Company hires client employees and becomes responsible for certain client obligations. Revenues are recognized on outsourcing contracts as amounts become billable in accordance with
contract terms, unless the amounts are billed in advance of performance of services, in which case revenues are recognized when the   
         F-10

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    

services are performed and amounts are earned in accordance with SAB 101, as amended by SAB 104. Revenues from time-and-materials or cost-plus contracts are recognized as the services
are performed. In such contracts, the Company s effort, measured by time incurred, represents the contractual milestones or output measure, which is the contractual earnings pattern. Revenues from unit-priced contracts are recognized as
transactions are processed based on objective measures of output. Revenues from fixed-price contracts are recognized on a straight-line basis, unless revenues are earned and obligations are fulfilled in a different pattern. Outsourcing contracts can
also include incentive payments for benefits delivered to clients. Revenues relating to such incentive payments are recorded when the contingency is satisfied and the Company concludes the amounts are earned.   
  Costs related to delivering outsourcing services are expensed as incurred with the exception of certain transition costs
related to the set-up of processes, personnel and systems, which are deferred during the transition period and expensed evenly over the period outsourcing services are provided. The deferred costs are specific internal costs or incremental external
costs directly related to transition or set-up activities necessary to enable the outsourced services. Generally, deferred amounts are protected in the event of early termination of the contract and are monitored regularly for impairment. Impairment
losses are recorded when projected undiscounted operating cash flows of the related contract are not sufficient to recover the carrying amount of contract assets. Deferred transition costs were $547,308 and $508,829 as of August 31, 2011 and
2010, respectively, and are included in Deferred contract costs. Amounts billable to the client for transition or set-up activities are deferred and recognized as revenue evenly over the period outsourcing services are provided. Deferred transition
revenues were $553,232 and $496,646 as of August 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and are included in non-current Deferred revenues relating to contract costs.   
  The Company enters into contracts that may consist of multiple elements. These contracts may include any combination of
technology integration consulting services, non-technology integration consulting services or outsourcing services described above. Revenues for contracts with multiple elements are allocated based on the lesser of the element s relative
selling price or the amount that is not contingent on future delivery of another element. The selling price of each element is determined by obtaining the vendor-specific objective evidence ( VSOE ) of fair value of each element. VSOE of
fair value is based on the price charged when the element is sold separately by the Company on a regular basis and not as part of a contract with multiple elements. If the amount of non-contingent revenues allocated to a delivered element accounted
for under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting is less than the costs to deliver such services, then such costs are deferred and recognized in future periods when the revenues become non-contingent. Revenues are recognized in accordance
with the Company s accounting policies for the separate elements, as described above. Elements qualify for separation when the services have value on a stand-alone basis, selling price of the separate elements exists and, in arrangements that
include a general right of refund relative to the delivered element, performance of the undelivered element is considered probable and substantially in the Company s control. While determining fair value and identifying separate elements
require judgment, generally fair value and the separate elements are readily identifiable as the Company also sells those elements unaccompanied by other elements.   
  Revenues recognized in excess of billings are recorded as Unbilled services. Billings in excess of revenues recognized are
recorded as Deferred revenues until revenue recognition criteria are met.   
         F-11

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
   Revenues before reimbursements ( net revenues ) include the
margin earned on computer hardware and software, as well as revenues from alliance agreements. Reimbursements include billings for travel and other out-of-pocket expenses and third-party costs, such as the cost of hardware and software resales. In
addition, Reimbursements include allocations from gross billings to record an amount equivalent to reimbursable costs, where billings do not specifically identify reimbursable expenses. The Company reports revenues net of any revenue-based taxes
assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue-producing transactions.       Employee Share-Based
Compensation Arrangements       Share-based compensation expense is recognized over the requisite service period
for awards of equity instruments to employees based on the grant date fair value of those awards expected to ultimately vest. Forfeitures are estimated on the date of grant and revised if actual or expected forfeiture activity differs materially
from original estimates.       Income Taxes       The Company calculates and provides for income taxes in each of the tax jurisdictions in which it operates. Deferred tax assets and liabilities, measured using enacted tax rates, are recognized for the
future tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax and financial statement bases of assets and liabilities. A valuation allowance reduces the deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. The Company
establishes liabilities or reduces assets for uncertain tax positions when the Company believes those tax positions are not more likely than not of being sustained if challenged. Each fiscal quarter, the Company evaluates these uncertain tax
positions and adjusts the related tax assets and liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances.       Translation of Non-U.S.
Currency Amounts       Assets and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the
U.S. dollar are translated into U.S. dollars at fiscal year-end exchange rates. Revenue and expense items are translated at average foreign currency exchange rates prevailing during the fiscal year. Translation adjustments are included in
Accumulated other comprehensive loss. Gains and losses arising from intercompany foreign currency transactions that are of a long-term investment nature are reported in the same manner as translation adjustments.   
   Cash and Cash Equivalents       Cash and cash equivalents consist of all cash balances and liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, including money market funds of $1,150,000 and $425,000 as of
August 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. As a result of certain subsidiaries  cash management systems, checks issued but not presented to the banks for payment may create negative book cash payables. Such negative balances are classified as
Current portion of long term debt and bank borrowings.       Client Receivables, Unbilled Services and Allowances    
  The Company records its client receivables and unbilled services at their face amounts less allowances. On a periodic
basis, the Company evaluates its receivables and unbilled services and establishes allowances based on historical experience and other currently available information. As of   
         F-12

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    

August 31, 2011 and 2010, total allowances recorded for client receivables and unbilled services were $73,296 and $104,753, respectively. The allowance reflects the Company s best
estimate of collectibility risks on outstanding receivables and unbilled services. In limited circumstances, the Company agrees to extend financing to certain clients. The terms vary by contract, but generally payment for services is contractually
linked to the achievement of specified performance milestones.       Concentrations of Credit Risk    
  The Company s financial instruments, consisting primarily of cash and cash equivalents, foreign currency exchange
rate instruments, client receivables and unbilled services, are exposed to concentrations of credit risk. The Company places its cash and cash equivalents and foreign exchange instruments with highly-rated financial institutions, limits the amount
of credit exposure with any one financial institution and conducts ongoing evaluation of the credit worthiness of the financial institutions with which it does business. Client receivables are dispersed across many different industries and
countries; therefore, concentrations of credit risk are limited.       Investments    
  All liquid investments with an original maturity greater than 90 days but less than one year are considered to be
short-term investments. Investments with an original maturity greater than one year are considered to be long-term investments. Marketable short-term and long-term investments are classified and accounted for as available-for-sale investments.
Available-for-sale investments are reported at fair value with changes in unrealized gains and losses recorded as a separate component of Accumulated other comprehensive loss until realized. Quoted market prices are used to determine the fair values
of common equity and debt securities that were issued by publicly traded entities. Interest and amortization of premiums and discounts for debt securities are included in Interest income. Realized gains and losses on securities are determined based
on the First In, First Out method and are included in (Loss) gain on investments, net. The Company does not hold these investments for speculative or trading purposes.       Property and Equipment       Property and equipment is stated at
cost, net of accumulated depreciation. Depreciation of property and equipment is computed on a straight-line basis over the following estimated useful lives:       

Buildings   
      
    20 to 25 years    
 
    Computers, related equipment and software   
      
    2 to 7 years    
 
    Furniture and fixtures   
      
    5 to 10 years    
 
    Leasehold improvements   
      
    Lesser of lease term or 15 years    
     Long-Lived Assets       Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. Recoverability of
long-lived assets or groups of assets is assessed based on a comparison of the carrying amount to the estimated future net cash flows. If estimated future undiscounted net cash flows are less than the carrying amount, the asset is considered
impaired and expense is recorded at an amount required to reduce the carrying amount to fair value.   
         F-13

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
    Operating Expenses    
  Selected components of operating expenses were as follows:   

(1)  
    For additional information, see   Client Receivables, Unbilled Services and Allowances.       
   Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements       In September 2010, the Company adopted guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) on revenue recognition guidance for arrangements with multiple deliverables. The
guidance eliminates the residual method of allocation in previous guidance; requires that arrangement considerations be allocated at the inception of the arrangement to all deliverables using the relative selling price; and requires a vendor to use
estimates of a selling price developed in a manner that is consistent with that used to determine the price to sell the deliverable on a standalone basis for all deliverables that meet the remaining separation criteria when vendor-specific objective
evidence and third-party evidence, respectively, do not exist as estimates of selling price. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  On September 1, 2009, the Company adopted guidance issued by the FASB on business combinations. The guidance
establishes principles and requirements for: recognizing and measuring the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree; recognizing and measuring the goodwill acquired in the business
combination or a gain from a bargain purchase; expensing acquisition-related costs as incurred; and determining what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business
combination. The Company s adoption of the guidance on business combinations did not have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.      On September 1, 2009, the Company adopted guidance issued by the FASB on noncontrolling interests, which establishes accounting and reporting standards requiring the noncontrolling interest in a
subsidiary, previously referred to as minority interest, to be presented as a separate component in the shareholders  equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheet. As required, the guidance on noncontrolling interests was applied
prospectively with the exception of presentation and disclosure requirements, which were applied retrospectively for all periods presented.   
   Subsequent Events       The Company has evaluated events and transactions subsequent to the balance sheet date. Based on this evaluation, the Company is not aware of any events or transactions (other than those disclosed herein)
that occurred subsequent to the balance sheet date but prior to filing that would require recognition or disclosure in its Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         F-14

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    

2.    EARNINGS PER SHARE    
   Basic and diluted earnings per share were calculated as follows:   

(1)  
    Diluted earnings per share assumes the redemption of all Accenture SCA Class I common shares owned by holders of noncontrolling interests and the
exchange of all Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, on a one-for-one basis. The income effect does not take into account  Net income attributable to noncontrolling
interests other,  since those shares are not redeemable or exchangeable for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares.          

(2)  
    Fiscal 2010 and 2009 diluted weighted average Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and earnings per share amounts have been restated to
reflect the impact of the issuance of additional restricted share units to holders of restricted share units in connection with the payment of cash dividends. This did not result in a change to previously reported Diluted earnings per share.
        For fiscal 2011, there were no options excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per
share because their exercise price would render them anti-dilutive. For fiscal 2010 and 2009, 110,294 and 193,143 options, respectively, were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share because their exercise prices would render them
anti-dilutive.   
         F-15

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    

3.    REORGANIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING COSTS, NET    
    Reorganization       In fiscal 2001, the Company accrued reorganization liabilities in connection with its transition to a corporate structure. These liabilities included certain non-income tax liabilities, such as stamp
taxes, as well as liabilities for certain individual income tax exposures related to the transfer of interests in certain entities to the Company as part of the reorganization. These primarily represent unusual and disproportionate individual income
tax exposures assumed by certain, but not all, of the Company s shareholders and partners in certain tax jurisdictions specifically related to the transfer of their partnership interests in certain entities to the Company as part of the
reorganization. (Prior to fiscal 2005, the Company referred to its highest-level employees with the  partner  title and the Company continues to use the term  partner  to refer to these persons in certain situations related to
its reorganization and the period prior to its incorporation.) The Company identified certain shareholders and partners who may incur such unusual and disproportionate financial damage in certain jurisdictions. These include shareholders and
partners who were subject to tax in their jurisdiction on items of income arising from the reorganization transaction that were not taxable for most other shareholders and partners. In addition, certain other shareholders and partners were subject
to a different rate or amount of tax than other shareholders or partners in the same jurisdiction. When additional taxes are assessed on these shareholders or partners in connection with these transfers, the Company has made and intends to make
payments, and in one country has contractually committed, to reimburse certain costs associated with the assessment either to the shareholder or partner, or to the taxing authority. The Company has recorded reorganization expense and the related
liability where such liabilities are probable. Interest accruals are made to cover reimbursement of interest on such tax assessments.      The Company s reorganization activity was as follows:       

(1)  
    Includes final agreements with tax authorities and expirations of statutes of limitations.      
  As of August 31, 2011, reorganization liabilities of $294,798 were included in Other accrued liabilities because
expirations of statutes of limitations or other final determinations could occur within 12 months, and reorganization liabilities of $12,488 were included in Other non-current liabilities. Timing of the resolution of tax audits or the initiation of
additional litigation and/or criminal tax proceedings may delay final resolution. Final resolution, through settlement, conclusion of legal proceedings or a tax authority s decision not to pursue a claim, will result in payment by the Company
of   
         F-16

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    

amounts in settlement or judgment of these matters and/or recording of a reorganization benefit or cost in the Company s Consolidated Income Statement. It is possible the aggregate amount of
such payments in connection with resolution of all such proceedings could exceed the currently recorded amounts. As of August 31, 2011, only a small number of jurisdictions remain that have active audits/investigations or open statutes of
limitations, and only one is significant (which is the country referenced above). In that country, current and former partners, and the Company, are engaged in disputes with tax authorities in connection with the corporate reorganization in 2001,
some of which have resulted, and others of which are expected to result, in litigation. These individuals and the Company intend to vigorously defend their positions.       Restructuring       The Company recognized restructuring costs
of $252,566 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. The restructuring costs included $110,338 principally related to global consolidation of office space and $142,228 related to realignment of the Company s workforce, primarily at the senior
executive level. The restructuring costs were allocated to the reportable operating segments as follows: $49,192 to Communications   High Tech; $53,155 to Financial Services; $45,818 to Health   Public Service; $58,091 to
Products; and $46,310 to Resources. The restructuring liabilities as of August 31, 2011 were $71,250, of which $17,815 was included in Other accrued liabilities and $53,435 was included in Other non-current liabilities. The restructuring
liabilities as of August 31, 2010 were $94,558, of which $28,574 was included in Other accrued liabilities and $65,984 was included in Other non-current liabilities. The remaining liabilities represent the net present value of estimated
obligations for operating leases on abandoned office space.   
    4.    ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS    
   The components of Accumulated other comprehensive loss were as follows:   

F-17

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    

5.    PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT    
   The components of Property and equipment, net were as follows:   

6.    BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND GOODWILL    
   During fiscal 2011, the Company acquired the net assets of a provider of software solutions for the
property and casualty insurance industry. In addition, during fiscal 2011, the Company completed four individually immaterial acquisitions. The total consideration for all fiscal 2011 acquisitions was $306,187. In connection with these acquisitions,
the Company recorded combined goodwill of $254,975, a portion of which was allocated to each of the reportable segments. The Company also recorded $81,735 in intangible assets, primarily related to customer relationships and intellectual property.
The intangible assets are being amortized over a period of less than one to fifteen years. The pro forma effects on the Company s operations were not material.   
  During fiscal 2010, the Company completed several individually immaterial acquisitions and had no acquisitions in fiscal
2009.      Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. Based
on the results of its annual impairment analysis, the Company determined that no impairment existed as of August 31, 2011 and 2010.      The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by reportable segment were as follows:       
 
         F-18

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    

7.    DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS    
   In the normal course of business, the Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage foreign
currency exchange rate risk. Derivative transactions are governed by a uniform set of policies and procedures covering areas such as authorization, counterparty exposure and hedging practices. Positions are monitored using techniques such as market
value and sensitivity analyses. The Company does not enter into derivative transactions for trading purposes. The Company classifies cash flows from its derivative programs as cash flows from operating activities in the Consolidated Cash Flows
Statement.      Certain derivatives also give rise to credit risks from the possible non-performance by
counterparties. Credit risk is generally limited to the fair value of those contracts that are favorable to the Company, and the maximum amount of loss due to credit risk, based on the gross fair value of all of the Company s derivative
financial instruments, was approximately $79,243 as of August 31, 2011.      The Company also utilizes
standard counterparty master agreements containing provisions for the netting of certain foreign currency transaction obligations and for set-off of certain obligations in the event of an insolvency of one of the parties to the transaction. These
provisions may reduce the Company s potential overall loss resulting from the insolvency of a counterparty and reduce a counterparty s potential overall loss resulting from the insolvency of the Company. Additionally, these agreements
contain early termination provisions triggered by adverse changes in a counterparty s credit rating, thereby enabling the Company to accelerate settlement of a transaction prior to its contractual maturity and potentially decrease the
Company s realized loss on an open transaction. Similarly, a decrement in the Company s credit rating could trigger a counterparty s early termination rights, thereby enabling a counterparty to accelerate settlement of a transaction
prior to its contractual maturity and potentially increase the Company s realized loss on an open transaction. The aggregate fair value of the Company s derivative instruments with credit-risk-related contingent features that are in a
liability position as of August 31, 2011 was $20,570.      The Company s derivative financial instruments
consist of deliverable and non-deliverable foreign currency forward contracts. Fair values for derivative financial instruments are based on prices computed using third-party valuation models and are classified as Level 2 in accordance with the
three-level hierarchy of fair value measurements. All of the significant inputs to the third-party valuation models are observable in active markets. Inputs include current market-based parameters such as forward rates, yield curves and credit
default swap pricing. For additional information related to the three-level hierarchy of fair value measurements, see Note 10 (Retirement and Profit Sharing Plans) to these Consolidated Financial Statements.   
   Cash Flow Hedges       Certain of the Company s subsidiaries are exposed to currency risk through their use of resources supplied by the Company s Global Delivery Network. To mitigate this risk, the Company uses
foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the foreign exchange risk of the forecasted intercompany expenses denominated in foreign currencies for up to three years in the future. The Company has designated these derivatives as cash flow hedges. As
of August 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company held no derivatives that were designated as fair value or net investment hedges.      In order for a derivative to qualify for hedge accounting, the derivative must be formally designated as a fair value, cash flow or net investment hedge by documenting the relationship between the
derivative   
         F-19

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    

and the hedged item. The documentation includes a description of the hedging instrument, the hedge item, the risk being hedged, the Company s risk management objective and strategy for
undertaking the hedge, the method for assessing the effectiveness of the hedge and the method for measuring hedge ineffectiveness. Additionally, the hedge relationship must be expected to be highly effective at offsetting changes in either the fair
value or cash flows of the hedged item at both inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis. The Company assesses the ongoing effectiveness of its hedges using the Hypothetical Derivative Method, which measures hedge ineffectiveness based on a
comparison of the change in fair value of the actual derivative designated as the hedging instrument and the change in fair value of a hypothetical derivative. The hypothetical derivative would have terms that identically match the critical
terms of the hedged item. The Company measures and records hedge ineffectiveness at the end of each fiscal quarter.      For a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the change in estimated fair value of a hedging instrument is recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of Shareholders 
Equity and is reclassified into Cost of services in the Consolidated Income Statement during the period in which the hedged transaction is recognized. The ineffective portion of the change in fair value of a cash flow hedge is recognized immediately
in Other expense, net in the Consolidated Income Statement and for fiscal 2011 and 2010 was not material. In addition, the Company did not discontinue any cash flow hedges during fiscal 2011 or 2010.   
  The activity related to the change in net unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges, net of tax, in Accumulated other
comprehensive loss was as follows:       
    As of August 31, 2011, $8,678 of the amounts related to derivatives designated as
cash flow hedges and recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss is expected to be reclassified into earnings in the next 12 months.   
   Other Derivatives       The Company also uses foreign currency forward contracts, which have not been designated as hedges, to hedge balance sheet exposures, such as intercompany loans. These instruments are generally short-term
in nature, with typical maturities of less than one year, and are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Realized gains or losses and changes in the estimated fair value of these derivatives were a net gain of $112,118 and $29,574 for
fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. These net gains were offset by net foreign currency losses, including net losses related to the underlying balance sheet exposures, and are recorded in Other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Income
Statement.   
         F-20

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
    Fair Value of Derivative Instruments    
  The notional and fair values of all derivative instruments were as follows:   

8.    BORROWINGS AND INDEBTEDNESS    
   As of August 31, 2011, the Company had the following borrowing facilities:   

(1)  
    This facility, which matures on July 31, 2012, provides unsecured, revolving borrowing capacity for general working capital purposes, including
the issuance of letters of credit. Financing is provided under this facility at the prime rate or at the London Interbank Offered Rate plus a spread. The Company continues to be in compliance with relevant covenant terms. The facility is subject to
annual commitment fees. As of August 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had no borrowings under the facility.          

(2)  
    The Company maintains separate, uncommitted and unsecured multicurrency revolving credit facilities. These facilities provide local currency
financing for the majority of the Company s operations. Interest rate terms on the revolving facilities are at market rates prevailing in the relevant local markets. As of August 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had no borrowings under these
facilities.          

(3)  
    The Company also maintains local guaranteed and non-guaranteed lines of credit for those locations that cannot access the Company s global
facilities. As of August 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had no borrowings under these various facilities.      
         F-21

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
   Under the borrowing facilities described above, the Company had an
aggregate of $177,906 and $152,117 of letters of credit outstanding as of August 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In addition, the Company also had total outstanding debt of $4,419 and $1,588 as of August 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
  
      9.    INCOME TAXES    
    
    Deferred income tax expense (benefit) recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss in
the Consolidated Balance Sheets related to the defined benefit plans liability before noncontrolling interests was $21,171 and $(105,238) in fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively, and related to the cash flow hedges before noncontrolling interests was
$19,561 and $11,411 in fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively.      The components of Income before income taxes were
as follows:       
 
         F-22

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
   The reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate to the
Company s effective income tax rate was as follows:       

(1)  
    Final determinations include final agreements with tax authorities and expirations of statutes of limitations.      
  The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of enacted changes in tax laws and tax rates did not have a material
impact on the Company s effective tax rate.      The components of the Company s deferred tax assets and
liabilities included the following:       
 
         F-23

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
   The Company recorded valuation allowances of $246,667 and $233,260 as of
August 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, against deferred tax assets principally associated with certain tax net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, as the Company believes it is more likely than not that these assets will not be
realized. For all other deferred tax assets, the Company believes it is more likely than not that the results of future operations will generate sufficient taxable income to realize these deferred tax assets. During fiscal 2011, the Company recorded
a net increase of $13,407 in the valuation allowance, primarily due to foreign currency translation.      The
Company had net operating loss carryforwards as of August 31, 2011 of $658,169. Of this amount, $68,159 expires between 2012 and 2017, $47,360 expires between 2018 and 2031, and $542,650 has an indefinite carryforward period. The Company had
tax credit carryforwards as of August 31, 2011 of $165,451, of which $60,572 will expire between 2012 and 2017, $24,302 will expire between 2018 and 2025, and $80,577 has an indefinite carryforward period.   
  As of August 31, 2011, the Company had $1,645,831 of unrecognized tax benefits, of which $805,186, if recognized,
would favorably affect the Company s effective tax rate. As of August 31, 2010, the Company had $1,254,468 of unrecognized tax benefits, of which $703,967, if recognized, would favorably affect the Company s effective tax rate. The
differences of $840,645 and $550,501, respectively, represent items recorded as adjustments to equity and offsetting tax benefits associated with the correlative effects of potential transfer pricing adjustments, state income taxes and timing
adjustments. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of unrecognized tax benefits was as follows:       
    For the year ended August 31, 2010, substantially all of the additions for tax
positions related to prior years are for items that had no net impact to the consolidated financial statements.   
  The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in the Provision for income taxes.
During fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company recognized approximately $73,016, $42,489 and $47,498 in interest and penalties, respectively. The Company had accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits of $285,458 ($198,646,
net of tax benefits) and $222,499 ($153,719, net of tax benefits) on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of August 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
  The Company is currently under audit by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service for fiscal 2003 to 2008. The Company is also
currently under audit in numerous state and non-U.S. tax jurisdictions. Although   
         F-24

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    

the outcome of tax audits is always uncertain and could result in significant cash tax payments, the Company does not believe the outcome of these audits will have a material adverse effect on
the Company s consolidated financial position or results of operations. With limited exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to income tax audits by taxing authorities for the years before 2003. The Company believes that it is reasonably
possible that its unrecognized tax benefits could decrease by approximately $793,000 or increase by approximately $86,000 in the next 12 months as a result of settlements, lapses of statutes of limitations and other adjustments. The majority of
these amounts relate to transfer pricing matters in both U.S. and non-U.S. tax jurisdictions.      As of
August 31, 2011, the Company had not recognized a deferred tax liability on $1,795,121 of undistributed earnings for certain foreign subsidiaries, because these earnings are intended to be permanently reinvested. If such earnings were
distributed, some countries may impose withholding taxes. It is not practicable to determine the amount of the related unrecognized deferred income tax liability.   
  Portions of the Company s operations are subject to reduced tax rates or are free of tax under various tax holidays
which expire between fiscal 2012 and 2016. Some of the holidays are renewable at reduced levels, with renewal periods through 2026. The income tax benefits attributable to the tax status of these subsidiaries were estimated to be approximately
$72,000, $71,000 and $78,000 in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
    10.    RETIREMENT AND PROFIT SHARING PLANS    
    Defined Benefit Pension       In the United States and certain other countries, the Company maintains and administers defined benefit retirement plans for certain current, retired and resigned employees. In addition, the
Company s U.S. defined benefit pension plans include a frozen plan for former pre-incorporation partners, which is unfunded. Benefits under the employee retirement plans are primarily based on years of service and compensation during the
years immediately preceding retirement or termination of participation in the plan.      Certain postemployment
benefits, including severance benefits, disability-related benefits and continuation of benefits, such as healthcare benefits and life insurance coverage, are provided to former or inactive employees after employment but before retirement. These
costs are substantially provided for on an accrual basis.       Assumptions    
  The Company uses an August 31 measurement date for its U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans. The
weighted-average assumptions used to determine the fiscal year-end defined benefit pension obligations are as follows:       
 
         F-25

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
   The Company s methodology for selecting the discount rate for the
U.S. Plans is to match the plans  cash flows to that of the average of two yield curves that provide the equivalent yields on zero-coupon corporate bonds for each maturity. The discount rate assumption for the non-U.S. Plans primarily
reflects the market rate for high-quality, fixed-income debt instruments. The discount rate assumptions are based on the expected duration of the benefit payments for each of the Company s defined benefit pension plans as of the annual
measurement date and is subject to change each year. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets should, over time, approximate the actual long-term returns on defined benefit pension plan assets and is based on historical returns and the
future expectations for returns for each asset class, as well as the target asset allocation of the asset portfolio.       Pension Expense
      Pension expense for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $110,332, $76,425 and $64,400 respectively.   

         F-26

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
    Benefit Obligation, Plan Assets and Funded Status    
  The changes in the defined benefit pension obligations, plan assets and funded status of material defined benefit pension
plans for fiscal 2011 and 2010 were as follows:       
 
         F-27

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
    Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss    
  The pre-tax accumulated net actuarial loss and prior service cost (credit) recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive
loss as of August 31, 2011 was as follows:       
    The estimated amounts that will be amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive loss as
of August 31, 2011 into net periodic pension expense during fiscal 2012 are as follows:       
     Funded Status for Defined Benefit Plans    
  The accumulated benefit obligation for material defined benefit pension plans as of August 31, 2011 and 2010 was as
follows:       
    The following information is provided for material defined benefit pension plans with
projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets and for plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets as of August 31, 2011 and 2010:       
 
         F-28

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    

Investment Strategies         U.S. Pension Plans        The overall investment objective
of the plans is to provide growth in the defined benefit pension plans  assets to help fund future defined benefit pension obligations while managing risk in order to meet current defined benefit pension obligations. The plans  future
prospects, their current financial conditions, the Company s current funding levels and other relevant factors suggest that the plans can tolerate some interim fluctuations in market value and rates of return in order to achieve long-term
objectives without undue risk to the plans  ability to meet their current benefit obligations. The Company recognizes that asset allocation of the defined benefit pension plans  assets is an important factor in determining long-term
performance. Actual asset allocations at any point in time may vary from the target asset allocations and will be dictated by current and anticipated market conditions, required cash flows and investment decisions of the investment committee and the
pension plans  investment funds and managers. Ranges are established to provide flexibility for the asset allocation to vary around the targets without the need for immediate rebalancing.   
    Non-U.S. Pension Plans        Plan assets in non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans conform to the investment policies and procedures of each plan and to relevant legislation. The pension committee or trustee of each plan
regularly, but at least annually, reviews the investment policy and the performance of the investment managers. In certain countries, the trustee is also required to consult with the Company. Asset allocation decisions are made to provide risk
adjusted returns that align with the overall investment strategy for each plan. Generally, the investment return objective of each plan is to achieve a total annualized rate of return that exceeds inflation over the long term by an amount based on
the target asset allocation mix of that plan. In certain countries, plan assets are invested in funds that are required to hold a majority of assets in bonds, with a smaller proportion in equities. Also, certain plan assets are entirely invested in
contracts held with the plan insurer, which determines the strategy. Defined benefit pension plans in certain countries are unfunded.        Risk Management        Plan investments are exposed to
certain risks including market, interest rate and operating risk. In order to mitigate significant concentrations of these risks, the assets are invested in a diversified portfolio primarily consisting of equities and fixed income instruments.
Equities are diversified between U.S. and non-U.S. index funds and are intended to achieve long term capital appreciation. To minimize asset volatility relative to the liabilities, a portion of plan assets are allocated to debt securities which
appropriately match the duration of individual plan s liabilities. Plan asset allocation and investment managers  guidelines are reviewed on a regular basis.   
         F-29

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
    Plan Assets    
  The Company s target allocation for fiscal 2012 and weighted-average plan assets allocations as of August 31,
2011 and 2010 by asset category, for material defined benefit pension plans are as follows:       
      Fair Value Measurements     
  Fair value is the price that would be received upon sale of an asset or paid upon transfer of a liability in an orderly
transaction between market participants at the measurement date and in the principal or most advantageous market for that asset or liability. The fair value should be calculated based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the
asset or liability, not on assumptions specific to the entity. In addition, the fair value of liabilities should include consideration of non-performance risk, including the Company s own credit risk.   
  The three-level hierarchy of fair value measurements is based on whether the inputs to those measurements are observable
or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect the Company s market assumptions. The fair-value hierarchy requires the use of observable market data when available and
consists of the following levels:       

Level 1 Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets;      

Level 2 Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not
active; and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs are observable in active markets; and          

Level 3 Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs are unobservable.      
         F-30

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
   The fair values of the material U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit
pension plans assets as of August 31, 2011 are as follows:       
     Expected Contributions       Generally, annual contributions are made at such times and in amounts as required by law and may, from time to time, exceed minimum funding requirements. The Company estimates it will pay approximately
$64,000 in fiscal 2012 related to contributions to its U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, cash funding for its retiree medical plans and benefit payments related to the unfunded frozen plan for former pre-incorporation partners.
The Company has not determined whether it will make additional voluntary contributions for its defined benefit pension plans.   
         F-31

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
    Estimated Future Benefit Payments    
  Benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid as follows:   
   
     Defined Contribution Plans    
  In the United States and certain other countries, the Company maintains and administers defined contribution plans for
certain current, retired and resigned employees. Defined contribution plans in countries other than the United States and the United Kingdom are individually immaterial. Total expenses recorded for the United States and the United Kingdom defined
contribution plans were $235,439, $223,793 and $232,661 in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
    11.    SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION    
    Share Incentive Plans       On February 4, 2010, Accenture s shareholders approved the Accenture plc 2010 Share Incentive Plan (the  2010 SIP ), which the Board of Directors of Accenture approved on
December 10, 2009. Any new equity grants awarded on or after February 4, 2010 were under the 2010 SIP. No new awards were granted on or after February 4, 2010 under the 2001 Share Incentive Plan (the  2001 SIP ), and any
share capacity remaining under the 2001 SIP was cancelled and not incorporated into the 2010 SIP. However, shares related to outstanding awards granted under the 2001 SIP prior to February 4, 2010 continue to be satisfied from shares issued
under the 2001 SIP.      The 2010 SIP is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of
Accenture and provides for the grant of nonqualified share options, incentive stock options, restricted share units and other share-based awards. A maximum of 50,000,000 Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares are currently authorized for awards
under the 2010 SIP. As of August 31, 2011, 36,503,998 shares were available for future grants under the 2010 SIP. Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares covered by awards that terminate, lapse or are cancelled may again be used to satisfy
awards under the 2010 SIP. The Company issues new Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and shares from treasury for shares delivered under the 2010 SIP.   
         F-32

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
   A summary of information with respect to share-based compensation is as
follows:       
      Restricted Share Units     
  Under the 2010 SIP and previously under the 2001 SIP, participants may be granted restricted share units, each of which
represents an unfunded, unsecured right, which is nontransferable except in the event of death of the participant, to receive an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share on the date specified in the participant s award agreement. The
restricted share units granted under this plan are subject to cliff or graded vesting, generally ranging from 2 to 10 years. For awards with graded vesting, compensation expense is recognized over the vesting term of each separately vesting
portion. Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis for awards with cliff vesting. Restricted share unit activity during fiscal 2011 was as follows:       
    As of August 31, 2011, there was $496,646 of total restricted share unit compensation
expense related to nonvested awards not yet recognized, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.5 years. As of August 31, 2011, there were 1,980,176 restricted share units vested but not yet delivered as
Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares.   
         F-33

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
     Stock Options     
  Stock options are granted to senior executives and other employees under the 2010 SIP and previously under the 2001 SIP.
Options generally have an exercise price that is at least equal to the fair value of the Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares on the date the option is granted. Options granted under the 2010 SIP and previously under the 2001 SIP are subject
to cliff or graded vesting, generally ranging from 2 to 10 years, and generally have a contractual term of 10 years. For awards with graded vesting, compensation expense is recognized over the vesting period of each separately vesting
portion. Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis for awards with cliff vesting. The fair value of each options grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model. Stock option activity for
fiscal 2011 was as follows:       
    Other information pertaining to option activity is as follows:   
   
    Cash received from the exercise of stock options was $214,234 and the income tax benefit
realized from the exercise of stock options was $116,206 for fiscal 2011. As of August 31, 2011, there was $502 of total stock option compensation expense related to nonvested awards not yet recognized, which is expected to be recognized over a
weighted average period of 1.1 years.       Employee Share Purchase Plans    
    2010 ESPP        The 2010 Employee Share Purchase Plan (the  2010 ESPP ) is a nonqualified plan that provides eligible employees of the Company with an opportunity to purchase Accenture plc Class A ordinary
shares through payroll deductions. Under the 2010 ESPP, eligible employees may purchase Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares through the Employee Share Purchase Plan (the  ESPP ) or the Voluntary Equity Investment Program (the
 VEIP ). Under the ESPP, eligible employees may elect to contribute 1% to 10% of their compensation during each semi-annual offering period (up to $7.5 per offering period)   
         F-34

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    

to purchase Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares at a discount. Under the VEIP, eligible senior executives may elect to contribute up to 30% of their total compensation towards the monthly
purchase of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares at fair market value. At the end of the VEIP program year, senior executive participants, who did not withdraw from the program, will be granted restricted share units equal to 50% of the number
of shares purchased during that year.      A maximum of 45,000,000 Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares may
be issued under the 2010 ESPP. As of August 31, 2011, 9,106,784 Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares had been issued under the 2010 ESPP. The Company issued 7,382,949 and 1,723,835 shares to employees in fiscal 2011 and 2010,
respectively, under the 2010 ESPP.        2001 ESPP     
  Prior to the 2010 ESPP, participants purchased Accenture Class A ordinary shares through the 2001 Employee Share
Purchase Plan (the  2001 ESPP ). Any share capacity remaining under the 2001 ESPP was cancelled and not incorporated into the 2010 ESPP share reserve. Under the 2001 ESPP, the Company issued 4,597,562 and 6,397,698 shares to employees in
fiscal 2010 and 2009 respectively.   
    12.    SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY    
    Accenture plc         Ordinary Shares        The Company has 40,000 authorized
ordinary shares, par value  1 per share. Each ordinary share of Accenture plc entitles its holder to receive payments upon a liquidation of Accenture plc; however a holder of an ordinary share is not entitled to vote on matters submitted
to a vote of shareholders of Accenture plc or to receive dividends.        Class A Ordinary Shares     
  An Accenture plc Class A ordinary share entitles its holder to one vote per share, and holders of those shares do not
have cumulative voting rights. Each Class A ordinary share entitles its holder to a pro rata part of any dividend at the times and in the amounts, if any, which Accenture plc s Board of Directors from time to time determines to declare,
subject to any preferred dividend rights attaching to any preferred shares. Each Class A ordinary share is entitled on a winding-up of Accenture plc to be paid a pro rata part of the value of the assets of Accenture plc remaining after payment
of its liabilities, subject to any preferred rights on liquidation attaching to any preferred shares.        Class X
Ordinary Shares        An Accenture plc Class X ordinary share entitles its holder to one vote per
share, and holders of those shares do not have cumulative voting rights. A Class X ordinary share does not entitle its holder to receive dividends, and holders of those shares are not entitled to be paid any amount upon a winding-up of
Accenture plc. Most of the Company s partners who received Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares in connection with the Company s transition to a corporate structure received a
corresponding number of Accenture plc Class X ordinary shares. Accenture plc may redeem, at its option, any Class X ordinary share for a redemption price equal to the par value of the Class X ordinary share. Accenture plc has
separately agreed with the original holders of   
         F-35

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    

Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares not to redeem any Class X ordinary share of such holder if the redemption would reduce the
number of Class X ordinary shares held by that holder to a number that is less than the number of Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares owned by that holder, as the case may be. Accenture
plc will redeem Class X ordinary shares upon the redemption or exchange of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares so that the aggregate number of Class X ordinary shares outstanding
at any time does not exceed the aggregate number of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares outstanding. Class X ordinary shares are not transferable without the consent of Accenture plc.
      Equity of Subsidiaries Redeemable or Exchangeable for Accenture plc Class A Ordinary Shares    
    Accenture SCA Class I Common Shares     
  Senior executives in certain countries, including the United States, received Accenture SCA Class I common shares in
connection with the Company s transition to a corporate structure. Only the Company and its current and former senior executives and their permitted transferees hold Accenture SCA Class I common shares. Each Accenture SCA Class I
common share entitles its holder to one vote on all matters submitted to a vote of shareholders of Accenture SCA and entitles its holders to dividends and liquidation payments.   
  Accenture SCA is obligated, at the option of the holder, to redeem any outstanding Accenture SCA Class I common share
at a redemption price per share generally equal to its current market value as determined in accordance with Accenture SCA s articles of association. Under Accenture SCA s articles of association, the market value of a Class I common
share will be deemed to be equal to (i) the average of the high and low sales prices of an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share as reported on the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other designated market on which the Class A
ordinary shares trade), net of customary brokerage and similar transaction costs, or (ii) if Accenture plc sells its Class A ordinary shares on the date that the redemption price is determined (other than in a transaction with any employee
or an affiliate or pursuant to a preexisting obligation), the weighted average sales price of an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share on the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other market on which the Class A ordinary shares primarily
trade), net of customary brokerage and similar transaction costs. Accenture SCA may, at its option, pay this redemption price with cash or by delivering Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares on a one-for-one basis. Each holder of Class I
common shares is entitled to a pro rata part of any dividend and to the value of any remaining assets of Accenture SCA after payment of its liabilities upon dissolution.        Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. Exchangeable Shares     
  Partners resident in Canada and New Zealand received Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares in connection with
the Company s transition to a corporate structure. Holders of Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares may exchange their shares for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares at any time on a one-for-one basis. The Company may, at
its option, satisfy this exchange with cash at a price per share generally equal to the market price of an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share at the time of the exchange. Each exchangeable share of Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. entitles its
holder to receive distributions equal to any distributions to which an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share entitles its holder.   
         F-36

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    

13.    MATERIAL TRANSACTIONS AFFECTING SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY    
    Share Purchases and Redemptions       The Board of Directors of Accenture plc has authorized funding for the Company s publicly announced open-market share purchase program for acquiring Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and for
purchases and redemptions of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares held by the Company s current and former senior executives and their
permitted transferees. As of August 31, 2011, the Company s aggregate available authorization was $1,041,631 for its publicly announced open-market share purchase and these other share purchase programs.   
  The Company s share purchase activity during fiscal 2011 was as follows:   

(1)  
    The Company conducts a publicly announced, open-market share purchase program for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares. These shares are held
as treasury shares by Accenture plc and may be utilized to provide for select employee benefits, such as equity awards to the Company s employees.      

(2)  
    During fiscal 2011, as authorized under the Company s various employee equity share plans, the Company acquired Accenture plc Class A
ordinary shares primarily via share withholding for payroll tax obligations due from employees and former employees in connection with the delivery of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares under those plans. These purchases of shares in
connection with employee share plans do not affect the Company s aggregate available authorization for the Company s publicly announced open-market share purchase and the other share purchase programs.      
    Other Share Redemptions        During fiscal 2011, the Company issued 6,837,070 Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares upon redemptions of an equivalent number of Accenture SCA Class I common shares pursuant to its registration
statement on Form S-3 (the  registration statement ). The registration statement allows the Company, at its option, to issue freely tradable Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares in lieu of cash upon redemptions of Accenture SCA Class
I common shares held by senior executives, former executives and their permitted transferees.   
         F-37

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
    Dividends    
  The Company s dividend activity during fiscal 2011 was as follows:   
   
    The payment of the cash dividends also resulted in the issuance of additional restricted
share units to holders of restricted share units. Diluted weighted average Accenture plc Class A ordinary share amounts have been restated for all periods presented to reflect this issuance.   
   Subsequent Events       On September 26, 2011, the Board of Directors of Accenture plc declared a semi-annual cash dividend of $0.675 per share on its Class A ordinary shares for shareholders of record at the close of
business on October 14, 2011. Accenture plc will cause Accenture SCA to declare a semi-annual cash dividend of $0.675 per share on its Class I common shares for shareholders of record at the close of business on October 11, 2011. Both
dividends are payable on November 15, 2011. The payment of the cash dividends will result in the issuance of an immaterial number of additional restricted share units to holders of restricted share units.   
  On September 26, 2011, the Board of Directors of Accenture plc approved $5,000,000 in additional share repurchase
authority, bringing the Company s total outstanding authority for fiscal 2012 and beyond to $6,041,631.   
    14.    LEASE COMMITMENTS    
   The Company has operating leases, principally for office space, with various renewal options.
Substantially all operating leases are non-cancelable or cancelable only by the payment of penalties. Rental expense in agreements with rent holidays and scheduled rent increases is recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Rental
expense, including operating costs and taxes and sublease income from third parties, during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 was as follows:       
 
         F-38

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
   Future minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases
as of August 31, 2011, were as follows:       
 
    15.    COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES    
    Commitments       The Company has the right to purchase or may also be required to purchase substantially all of the remaining outstanding shares of its Avanade Inc. subsidiary ( Avanade ) not owned by the
Company at fair value if certain events occur. Certain holders of Avanade common stock and options to purchase the stock have put rights that, under certain circumstances and conditions, would require Avanade to redeem shares of its stock at fair
value. As of August 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company has reflected the fair value of $113,143 and $93,404, respectively, related to Avanade s redeemable common stock and the intrinsic value of the options on redeemable common stock in Other
accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.       Indemnifications and Guarantees    
  In the normal course of business and in conjunction with certain client engagements, the Company has entered into
contractual arrangements through which it may be obligated to indemnify clients with respect to certain matters. These arrangements with clients can include provisions whereby the Company has joint and several liability in relation to the
performance of certain contractual obligations along with third parties also providing services and products for a specific project. Indemnification provisions are also included in arrangements under which the Company agrees to hold the indemnified
party harmless with respect to third-party claims related to such matters as title to assets sold or licensed or certain intellectual property rights.      Typically, the Company has contractual recourse against third parties for certain payments made by the Company in connection with arrangements where third-party nonperformance has given rise to the
client s claim. Payments by the Company under any of the arrangements described above are generally conditioned on the client making a claim, which may be disputed by the Company typically under dispute resolution procedures specified in the
particular arrangement. The limitations of liability under these arrangements may be expressly limited or may not be expressly specified in terms of time and/or amount.   
  As of August 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company s aggregate potential liability to its clients for expressly limited
guarantees involving the performance of third parties was approximately $976,000 and $556,000, respectively, of which all but approximately $256,000 and $71,000, respectively, may be   
         F-39

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    

recovered from the other third parties if the Company is obligated to make payments to the indemnified parties that are the consequence of a performance default by the other third parties. For
arrangements with unspecified limitations, the Company cannot reasonably estimate the aggregate maximum potential liability, as it is inherently difficult to predict the maximum potential amount of such payments, due to the conditional nature and
unique facts of each particular arrangement.      To date, the Company has not been required to make any
significant payment under any of the arrangements described above. The Company has assessed the current status of performance/payment risk related to arrangements with limited guarantees, unspecified limitations and/or indemnification provisions and
believes that any potential payments would be immaterial to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as a whole.       Legal Contingencies
      As of August 31, 2011, the Company or its present personnel had been named as a defendant in various
litigation matters. The Company and/or its personnel also from time to time are involved in investigations by various regulatory or legal authorities concerning matters arising in the course of its business around the world. Based on the present
status of these matters, management believes the range of reasonably possible losses in addition to amounts accrued, net of insurance recoveries, will not have a material effect on the Company s results of operations or financial condition.
  
    16.    SEGMENT REPORTING    
   Operating segments are components of an enterprise where separate financial information is available
that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker, or decision-making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.      The Company s chief operating decision maker is its Chief Executive Officer. The Company s operating segments are managed separately because each operating segment represents a strategic
business unit providing management consulting, technology and outsourcing services to clients in different industries.   
         F-40

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
   The Company s reportable operating segments are the five operating
groups, which are Communications   High Tech, Financial Services, Health   Public Service, Products and Resources. Information regarding the Company s reportable operating segments is as follows:   

(1)  
    Amounts include depreciation on property and equipment controlled by each operating segment, as well as an allocation for depreciation on property
and equipment they do not directly control.          

(2)  
    The Company does not allocate total assets by operating segment. Operating segment assets directly attributed to an operating segment and provided
to the chief operating decision maker include Receivables from clients, current and non-current Unbilled services, Deferred contract costs and current and non-current Deferred revenues.      
  The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those described in Note 1 (Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies) to these Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         F-41

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
   Revenues are attributed to geographic regions and countries based on
where client services are supervised. Information regarding geographic regions and countries is as follows:       

(1)  
    EMEA includes Europe, Middle East and Africa.      
  The Company conducts business in the following countries that individually comprised 10% or more of consolidated Net
revenues:       
    The Company conducts business in the following countries that hold 10% or more of its
total consolidated Property and equipment, net:       
 
         F-42

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    
     
   Net revenues by type of work were as follows:   

17.    QUARTERLY DATA (unaudited)    

F-43

Table of Contents  

ACCENTURE PLC    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (continued)    
   (In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts or as otherwise disclosed)    

(1)  
    Fiscal 2010 and the first and second quarters of fiscal 2011 diluted weighted average Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and earnings per
share amounts have been restated to reflect the impact of the issuance of additional restricted share units to holders of restricted share units in connection with the payment of cash dividends. This did not result in a change to previously reported
Diluted earnings per share.          

(2)  
    On May 6, 2010, between 2:40pm EDT and 3:00pm EDT, U.S. equity markets experienced a rapid, severe decline and corresponding recovery, which
has become known as the  flash crash.  The Company s stock was one of the securities involved in the  flash crash  and, because of this event, shows an intraday low on the consolidated tape of trades on all exchanges
and market centers of $17.74; while on the NYSE, which is the Company s primary listing exchange, the intraday low was $38.75.      

         F-44

<EX-21.1>
 2
 d222389dex211.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

Exhibit 21.1        Subsidiaries of the Registrant       Certain subsidiaries of the registrant and
their subsidiaries are listed below.       

Name    
      
   Country of Organization    

Sistemes Consulting S.A   
      
  Andorra   
 
    Accenture SRL   
      
  Argentina   
 
    Accenture Service Center SRL   
      
  Argentina   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions Pty Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Accenture Australia Holdings Pty Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Avanade Australia Pty Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Navitaire Australia Pty Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    MediaSenz Pty Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Accenture GmbH   
      
  Austria   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions GmbH   
      
  Austria   
 
    Accenture BPM CVBA/SCRL   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Accenture S.A.\.N.V.   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions NV/SA   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Accenture Technology Ventures S.P.R.L.   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Avanade Belgium SPRL   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Accenture Australia Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Accenture Australia (1) Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Accenture Australia (2) Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Accenture Australia (3) Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Blue Insurance Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    ENMAX Technology Bolivia S.A.   
      
  Bolivia   
 
    Accenture (Botswana) (PTY) Ltd.   
      
  Botswana   
 
    Du Chazal Du Mee Pty Ltd   
      
  Botswana   
 
    Accenture do Brasil Ltda   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Accenture Automacao e TI Industrial Ltda   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Accenture Servicos de Suporte de Negocios Ltda   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Avanade do Brasil Ltda   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Accenture Canada Holdings Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    1021904 Ontario Limited   
      
  Canada   
 
    Accenture Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions Canada, Inc.   

Also known as Solutions technologiques Accenture Canada, Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Accenture Business Services of British Columbia Limited Partnership   
      
  Canada   
 
    Accenture Business Services for Utilities Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Accenture Business Services General Partner Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Accenture Nova Scotia Unlimited Liability Co.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Avanade Canada Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Accenture Chile Asesorias y Servicios Ltda   
      
  Chile   
 
    Accenture (China) Co Ltd.   
      
  China    

Name    
      
   Country of Organization    

Accenture Technology Solutions (Dalian) Co Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Guangzhou Bao Zhe Information Consulting Co Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Qi Jie (Beijing) Info Tech Co Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Avanade Guangzhou   
      
  China   
 
    Avanade GZ Computer Technology Development Co. Ltd. (SH)   
      
  China   
 
    Accenture Ltda   
      
  Colombia   
 
    Accenture Services s.r.o   
      
  Czech Republic   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions s.r.o.   
      
  Czech Republic   
 
    Navitaire Prague s.r.o.   
      
  Czech Republic   
 
    Accenture Denmark Holdings A/S   
      
  Denmark   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions A/S   
      
  Denmark   
 
    Avanade Denmark ApS   
      
  Denmark   
 
    ENMAX Technology-Ecuador S.A.   
      
  Ecuador   
 
    Accenture Egypt LLC   
      
  Egypt   
 
    Accenture Oy   
      
  Finland   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions Oy   
      
  Finland   
 
    Accenture Services Oy   
      
  Finland   
 
    Avanade Finland Oy   
      
  Finland   
 
    Digiplug SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions SAS   
      
  France   
 
    InVita SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Avanade SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Accenture Holdings France SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Insurance Services SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Acceria SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Accenture GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Accenture Management GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Accenture Holding GmbH   Co. KG   
      
  Germany   
 
    Accenture Dienstleistungen GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Accenture Services GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Accenture Services f r Kreditinstitute GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Avanade Deutschland GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Accenture CAS GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Accenture Finance (Gibraltar) III Ltd.   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Accenture Minority III Ltd.   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Accenture PLC   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Accenture S.A.   
      
  Greece   
 
    Accenture BPM S.A.   
      
  Greece   
 
    Accenture Co Ltd.   
      
  Hong Kong SAR   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions (HK) Co. Ltd.   
      
  Hong Kong SAR   
 
    Avanade Hong Kong Ltd.   
      
  Hong Kong SAR   
 
    Accenture Tanacsado Korlatolt Felelossegu Tarsasag KFT   

(Also known as Accenture KFT)   
      
  Hungary    

Name    
      
   Country of Organization    

Accenture Services Private Ltd.   
      
  India   
 
    P.T. Accenture   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    Accenture   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Accenture Global Services Ltd.   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Accenture Defined Benefit Pension Plan Trustees Ltd   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Accenture Defined Contribution Pension Plan Trustees Ltd   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Accenture IOM 1 Company Limited   
      
  Isle of Man   
 
    Accenture IOM 2 Company Limited   
      
  Isle of Man   
 
    Accenture Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Accenture SpA   
      
  Italy   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions SRL   
      
  Italy   
 
    Accenture Outsourcing SRL   
      
  Italy   
 
    Accenture Insurance Services SpA   
      
  Italy   
 
    Accenture Finance and Accounting BPO Services SpA   
      
  Italy   
 
    Accenture Insurance Services and Systems SpA   
      
  Italy   
 
    Accenture HR Services SpA/TESS SpA   
      
  Italy   
 
    Avanade Italy SRL   
      
  Italy   
 
    Accenture Japan Ltd.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions Japan KK   
      
  Japan   
 
    Proquire KK   
      
  Japan   
 
    Avanade Japan KK   
      
  Japan   
 
    Sopia Corporation (Kabushiki Kaisha Sopia)   
      
  Japan   
 
    Accenture East Africa Ltd.   
      
  Kenya   
 
    Accenture S rl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Accenture S.C.A.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Accenture International S rl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Accenture International Capital SCA   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Accenture Sdn. Bhd   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions Sdn Bhd   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Accenture Solutions Sdn Bhd   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Advent Business Services Sdn. Bhd   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Avanade Malaysia Sdn Bhd   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Accenture Mauritius Ltd.   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    Accenture (Mauritius) Onshore Ltd.   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    Beaumont Development Centre Holding Ltd.   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    AP Holdings Co Ltd.   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    Accenture S.C.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Operaciones Accenture S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions S.C.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Servicios Tecnicos de Programacion Accenture S.C.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Accenture Service Centre Morocco SA   
      
  Morocco   
 
    Accenture Holdings B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture Branch Holdings B.V.   
      
  Netherlands    

Name    
      
   Country of Organization    

Accenture Middle East B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture Central Europe B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture Australia Holding B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture Korea BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture Technology Ventures BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture Participations BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture Minority I BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture Insurance Services BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Avanade Netherlands BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Partners Technology Mexico Holdings BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture Equity Finance BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Accenture NZ Limited   
      
  New Zealand   
 
    Accenture Ltd.   
      
  Nigeria   
 
    Accenture A.S   
      
  Norway   
 
    Avanade Norway AS   
      
  Norway   
 
    Accenture Inc.   
      
  Philippines   
 
    Accenture Healthcare Processing Inc.   
      
  Philippines   
 
    Accenture Sp. z.o.o.   
      
  Poland   
 
    Accenture Services Sp. z.o.o.   
      
  Poland   
 
    Accenture Consultores de Gestao S.A.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions S.A.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions-Solucoes Informaticas Integrados, S.A.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Accenture Services S.r.l.   
      
  Romania   
 
    Accenture OOO   
      
  Russia   
 
    Accenture Pte Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions Pte Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Avanade Asia Pte Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Accenture s.r.o.   
      
  Slovak Republic   
 
    Accenture Services s.r.o.   
      
  Slovak Republic   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions Slovakia s.r.o.   
      
  Slovak Republic   
 
    Accenture (South Africa) Pty Ltd.   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Accenture Services (South Africa) Pty Ltd.   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions Pty Ltd.   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Accenture Africa Pty Ltd.   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Accenture Technology Infrastructure Services Pty Ltd.   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Accenture Yuhan Hoesa Also known as Accenture Ltd.   
      
  South Korea   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions Ltd.   
      
  South Korea   
 
    Accenture S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Accenture Outsourcing Services S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Accenture Human Capital Mgmt. Sol. S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Accenture Holdings (Iberia) S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Coritel S.A.   
      
  Spain    

Name    
      
   Country of Organization    

Alnova Technologies Corporation S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Avanade Spain SL   
      
  Spain   
 
    CustomerWorks Europe SL   
      
  Spain   
 
    Energuiaweb SL   
      
  Spain   
 
    Accenture AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Accenture Services AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Avanade Sweden AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Accenture AG   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions AG   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Accenture Holding GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Accenture Global Services GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Accenture Finance GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Accenture Finance II GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Avanade Schweiz GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Accenture Services AG   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Accenture Supply Chain Services   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Accenture Co Ltd.   
      
  Taiwan   
 
    Accenture Solutions Co Ltd.   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Accenture Co Ltd.   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Accenture Technolgy Solutions (Thailand) Ltd.   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Avanade (Thailand) Co Ltd.   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Accenture Danismanlik Limited Sirketi   
      
  Turkey   
 
    Accenture BPM is Yonetimi Limited Sirketi   
      
  Turkey   
 
    Accenture Ukraine LLC   
      
  Ukraine   
 
    Accenture (UK) Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Avanade UK Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Avanade Europe Holdings Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Avanade Europe Services Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Imagine Broadband Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    The Accenture Group   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Accenture Services Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Accenture Technology Solutions Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Accenture Properties   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Memetrics Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Accenture LLP   
      
  United States   
 
    Accenture Inc.   
      
  United States   
 
    Accenture LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    Accenture Capital Inc.   
      
  United States   
 
    Accenture Sub Inc.   
      
  United States   
 
    Accenture Financial Corporation   
      
  United States   
 
    Avanade Inc.   
      
  United States   
 
    Avanade International Corporation   
      
  United States   
 
    Avanade Holdings LLC   
      
  United States    

Name    
      
   Country of Organization    

Maple Insurance Inc.   
      
  United States   
 
    Navitaire Inc.   
      
  United States   
 
    Navitaire International Inc.   
      
  United States   
 
    Proquire LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    Accenture National Security Services LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    Accenture Relocation LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    Accenture BPO Services LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    Accenture Insurance Services LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    Accenture Puerto Rico LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    BABCN LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    Accenture 2, Inc.   
      
  United States   
 
    Origin Digital, Inc.   
      
  United States   
 
    Avanade Fed Services LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    Accenture C.A.   
      
  Venezuela   

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 3
 d222389dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF KPMG LLP

Consent of KPMG LLP 

Exhibit 23.1        Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       The Board of Directors
     Accenture plc:      We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (No. 333-166290) on Form S-3 and (No. 333-164737) and (No. 333-65376-99) on Forms S-8 of Accenture plc (the
 Company ) of our report dated October 21, 2011, with respect to the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Accenture plc as of August 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related Consolidated Statements of Income, Shareholders  Equity and
Comprehensive Income, and Cash Flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended August 31, 2011, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2011, which report appears in the
August 31, 2011 annual report on Form 10-K of Accenture plc.      The Company, as of September 1, 2009,
adopted guidance on noncontrolling interests and business combinations.      /s/ KPMG LLP   
  Chicago, Illinois      October 21, 2011

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 4
 d222389dex232.htm
 CONSENT OF KPMG LLP

Consent of KPMG LLP 

Exhibit 23.2        Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       The Board of Directors
     Accenture plc:      We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (No. 333-166290) on Form S-3 and (No. 333-164737) and (No. 333-65376-99) on Forms S-8 of Accenture plc of our report
dated October 21, 2011, with respect to the Statements of Financial Condition of the Accenture plc 2010 Employee Share Purchase Plan as of August 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related Statements of Operations and Changes in Plan Equity for
the year ended August 31, 2011 and the period from February 4, 2010 (Inception) through August 31, 2010, which report appears in the August 31, 2011 annual report on Form 10-K of Accenture plc.   
  /s/ KPMG LLP      Chicago, Illinois   
  October 21, 2011   

</EX-23.2>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 d222389dex311.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Section 302 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer 

Exhibit 31.1        CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CERTIFICATION       I, Pierre Nanterme,
certify that:      1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Accenture plc for the fiscal year ended
August 31, 2011, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof;      2. Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect
to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;   
  4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:   
  a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to
be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared;      b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles;      c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
     d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying
officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent functions):      a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design
or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and   
  b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant
role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

Dated: October 21, 2011  

/ S /    P IERRE  N ANTERME 

Pierre Nanterme    

Chief Executive Officer of Accenture plc    
    (principal executive officer)      

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 d222389dex312.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Section 302 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer 

Exhibit 31.2        CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER CERTIFICATION       I, Pamela J. Craig,
certify that:      1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Accenture plc for the fiscal year ended
August 31, 2011, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof;      2. Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect
to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;   
  4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:   
  a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to
be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared;      b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles;      c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
     d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying
officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent functions):      a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design
or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and   
  b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant
role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

Dated: October 21, 2011  

/ S /    P AMELA  J. C RAIG 

Pamela J. Craig    

Chief Financial Officer of Accenture plc    
    (principal financial officer)      

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 d222389dex321.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Section 906 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer 

Exhibit 32.1        Certification of the Chief Executive Officer        Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350,        As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002    
  In connection with the Annual Report of Accenture plc (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
August 31, 2011 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Pierre Nanterme, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements
of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      (2) The information contained in
the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.       

Dated: October 21, 2011  

/ S /    P IERRE  N ANTERME 

Pierre Nanterme    

Chief Executive Officer of Accenture plc    
    (principal executive officer)      

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 d222389dex322.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Section 906 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer 

Exhibit 32.2        Certification of the Chief Financial Officer        Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350,        As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002    
  In connection with the Annual Report of Accenture plc (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
August 31, 2011 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Pamela J. Craig, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements
of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      (2) The information contained in
the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.       

Dated: October 21, 2011  

/s/    P AMELA  J. C RAIG 

Pamela J. Craig    

Chief Financial Officer of Accenture plc    
    (principal financial officer)      

</EX-32.2>

<EX-99.1>
 9
 d222389dex991.htm
 ACCENTURE PLC 2010 EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PLAN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Accenture plc 2010 Employee Share Purchase Plan Financial Statements 

Exhibit 99.1        Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm        To the
Participants of the Accenture plc 2010 Employee Share Purchase Plan and the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Accenture plc:       We have audited the accompanying Statements of Financial Condition of the Accenture plc 2010 Employee Share Purchase Plan (the  Plan ) as of August 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related
Statements of Operations and Changes in Plan Equity for the year ended August 31, 2011 and the period from February 4, 2010 (Inception) through August 31, 2010. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Plan s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.      We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Accenture plc 2010 Employee Share Purchase Plan as of August 31,
2011 and 2010, and the changes in its financial status for the year ended August 31, 2011 and the period from February 4, 2010 (Inception) through August 31, 2010, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
     /s/ KPMG LLP      Chicago, Illinois
     October 21, 2011   

ACCENTURE PLC 2010 EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PLAN    
   STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION        August 31, 2011 and 2010        
    The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these financial statements.   

ACCENTURE PLC 2010 EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PLAN    
   STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND CHANGES IN PLAN EQUITY        For the Year Ended August 31, 2011 and the Period from February 4, 2010 (Inception) to August 31, 2010    
   
    The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these financial statements.   

ACCENTURE PLC 2010 EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PLAN    
   NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        1.    PLAN DESCRIPTION       The following
description of the Accenture plc 2010 Employee Share Purchase Plan (the  Plan ) is provided for general information purposes. Participants in the Plan should refer to the Plan document for more detailed and complete information. Under the
Plan, there are two programs through which participants may purchase shares: (1) the Employee Share Purchase Plan (the  ESPP ) and (2) the Voluntary Equity Investment Program (the  VEIP ).   
   General    
  Under the Plan, which was approved by the shareholders of Accenture plc (the  Company ) at their
February 4, 2010 meeting, and approved by the Board of Directors (the  Board ) on December 10, 2009, the Company is authorized to issue or transfer up to 45,000,000 Class A ordinary shares ( Shares ) of the
Company. The Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board (the  Committee ), which may delegate its duties and powers in whole or in part as it determines, provided, however, that the Board may, in its sole discretion,
take any action designated to the Committee under the Plan as it may deem necessary. The Company pays all expenses of the Plan. The Shares may consist, in whole or in part, of unissued Shares or previously issued Shares that have been reacquired.
     The Plan provides eligible employees of the Company or of a participating subsidiary with an opportunity to
purchase Shares at a purchase price established by the Committee, which shall in no event be less than 85% of the fair market value of a Share on the purchase date.   
  The  fair market value  on a given date is defined as the arithmetic mean of the high and low prices of the
Shares as reported on such date on the composite tape of the principal national securities exchange on which the Shares are listed or admitted to trading, or, if no sale of Shares shall have been reported on the composite tape of any national
securities exchange on such date, then the immediately preceding date on which sales of the Shares have been so reported or quoted shall be used.      In general, any individual who is an employee of the Company or of a participating subsidiary is eligible to participate in the Plan, except that the Committee may exclude employees (either individually
or by reference to a subset thereof) from participation (1) whose customary employment is less than five months per calendar year or 20 hours or less per week; (2) who own shares equaling 5% or more of the total combined voting power or
value of all classes of shares of the Company or any subsidiary; or (3) who are highly compensated employees under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ). The Plan does not currently qualify as an  employee
stock purchase plan  under Section 423 of the Code and therefore receipt of the Shares will be a taxable event to the participant. The Plan is not subject to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as
amended.       Contributions       Payroll deductions will generally be made from the compensation paid to each participant during an offering period in a whole percentage as elected by the participant but not to exceed the maximum
percentage of the participant s compensation (or maximum dollar amount) as is permitted by the Committee. Under the ESPP, the maximum whole percentage is 10% (up to a maximum of $7,500 per offering period), provided that no participant will be
entitled to purchase, during any calendar year, Shares with an aggregate value in excess of $25,000. Under the VEIP, eligible senior executives may choose to contribute up to 30% of their total compensation towards the purchase of Shares. The amount
of the contributions is based on pre-tax cash compensation, but contributions are deducted from after-tax pay each pay period. Individual participation is subject to an aggregate participation limit as is permitted by the Committee.   

A participant may elect his or her percentage of payroll
deductions, and change that election, prior to the applicable offering period as determined by the Committee. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, a participant cannot change the rate of payroll deductions once an offering period has
commenced. All payroll deductions made with respect to a participant are credited to the participant s payroll deduction account under the Plan and are deposited with the general funds of the Company. All funds of participants received or held
by the Company under the Plan before purchase or issuance of the Shares are held without liability for interest or other increment. Under the Plan, the ESPP offering periods in fiscal 2011 included the six-month periods ended November 1, 2010
and May 1, 2011. The current offering period commenced on May 2, 2011 and will end on November 1, 2011. The VEIP has a calendar year offering period and monthly contribution periods in which shares are purchased on the 5   th    of the subsequent month.   
   Share Purchases       As soon as practicable following the end of each ESPP offering period or VEIP contribution period, the number of Shares purchased by each participant is deposited into a brokerage account established in
the participant s name. Dividends that are declared on the Shares held in the brokerage account are paid in cash or reinvested. A summary of information with respect to share purchases was as follows:   
   
    As of August 31, 2011, 9,106,784 Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares had been
issued under the Plan.       Withdrawals       Each participant may withdraw from participation in respect of an offering period or from the Plan under such terms and conditions as are established by the Committee in its sole discretion. Upon a

participant s withdrawal, all accumulated payroll deductions in the participant s Plan account are returned without interest (to the extent permitted by applicable local law). A
participant is not entitled to any Shares with respect to the applicable offering period, except under the VEIP for those shares purchased in contribution periods prior to withdrawal. A participant is permitted to participate in subsequent offering
periods pursuant to terms and conditions established by the Committee in its sole discretion.       Adjustments    
  The number of Shares issued or reserved for issuance pursuant to the Plan (or pursuant to outstanding awards) is subject
to adjustment on account of share splits, share dividends and other changes in the Shares. In the event of a change in control of the Company, the Committee may take any actions it deems necessary or desirable with respect to any option as of the
date of consummation of the change in control.       Plan Amendment and Termination    
  The Board may amend, alter or discontinue the Plan, provided, however, that no amendment, alteration or discontinuation
will be made that would increase the total number of Shares authorized for the Plan, or without a participant s consent, would materially adversely affect the participant s rights and obligations under the Plan. The Plan will terminate
upon the earliest of: (1) the termination of the Plan by the Board; (2) the issuance of all of the Shares reserved for issuance under the Plan; or (3) the tenth anniversary of the effective date of the Plan.   
   2.    BASIS OF PRESENTATION       The accompanying financial statements have been prepared on the accrual basis of accounting. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires
the Plan s management to use estimates and assumptions that affect the accompanying financial statements and disclosures. Actual results could differ from these estimates.   
  As of August 31, 2011, Contributions receivable represents payroll deductions from participants with respect to the
ESPP offering period beginning May 2, 2011 and ending November 1, 2011, as well as the VEIP contribution period beginning August 1, 2011 and ending August 31, 2011. These payroll deductions are held by Accenture plc and/or its
affiliates.      Plan equity represents net assets available for future share purchases or participant withdrawals.
      3.    SUBSEQUENT EVENTS       The Company has evaluated events and transactions subsequent to the Plan s statement of financial condition date. Based on this evaluation, the Company is not aware of any events or transactions
that occurred subsequent to the Plan s statement of financial condition date but prior to filing that would require recognition or disclosure in these financial statements.   

</EX-99.1>

<EX-101.INS>
 10
 acn-20110831.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 11
 acn-20110831.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 12
 acn-20110831_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 13
 acn-20110831_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 14
 acn-20110831_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 15
 acn-20110831_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

