<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090224_10-K_edgar_data_732712_0001193125-09-036349_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1763165</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>381390</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>48228</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1062900</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>117</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-09-036349.hdr.sgml : 20090224
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090224172509
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-09-036349
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		10
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090224
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090224

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000732712
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (NO RADIO TELEPHONE) [4813]
		IRS NUMBER:				232259884
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08606
		FILM NUMBER:		09631573

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		140 WEST STREET
		STREET 2:		29TH FLOOR
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10007
		BUSINESS PHONE:		212-395-1000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		140 WEST STREET
		STREET 2:		29TH FLOOR
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10007

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BELL ATLANTIC CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 AM5PMiEThfLl3dkJ2iUeVHnnPlFxZaTEUOEs103FSH/1eGE/RMXbm3vTYPLmntRB
 DhhD7QObKXFIRcuYymZvIg==

 0001193125-09-036349.txt : 20090224

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC. -- FORM 10-K

Verizon Communications Inc. -- Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

        UNITED
STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549       FORM 10-K        
    Commission file number 1-8606       Verizon Communications Inc.        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)        
     Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (212) 395-1000        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:        

Title of each
class             
     
     Name of each exchange                              on which
registered                            
 
  Common Stock, $.10 par value  
     
    New York, Chicago, London,     Swiss, Amsterdam and Frankfurt Stock Exchanges    
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:       None      Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes           No       
     Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes
       No                  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes           No             Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K (Section 229.405) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment
to this Form 10-K             Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer ,  accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):   

Large accelerated filer            
     
  Accelerated filer         
     
  Non-accelerated filer         
     
  Smaller reporting company          
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes
         No                 At June 30, 2008, the aggregate market value of the registrant s voting stock held by non-affiliates was approximately $103,874,980,000.      At January 30, 2009, 2,840,569,560 shares of the registrant s common stock were outstanding, after deducting 127,040,559 shares held in treasury.      Documents incorporated by reference:      Portions of the registrant s Annual Report to Shareowners for
the year ended December 31, 2008 (Parts I and II).      Portions of the registrant s definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission and delivered to shareholders in connection with the registrant s 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (Part III).           

Table of Contents  

      TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Item No.   

Page    

PART I   

Item 1.   
        
    Business    
      
  3   

Item 1A.   
        
    Risk Factors    
      
  14   

Item 1B.   
        
    Unresolved Staff Comments    
      
  16   

Item 2.   
        
    Properties    
      
  16   

Item 3.   
        
    Legal Proceedings    
      
  17   

Item 4.   
        
    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders    
      
  17   

PART II   

Item 5.   
        
    Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    
      
  17   

Item 6.   
        
    Selected Financial Data    
      
  18   

Item 7.   
        
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
      
  18   

Item 7A.   
        
    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    
      
  18   

Item 8.   
        
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    
      
  18   

Item 9.   
        
    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    
      
  18   

Item 9A.   
        
    Controls and Procedures    
      
  18   

Item 9B.   
        
    Other Information    
      
  18   

PART III   

Item 10.   
        
    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    
      
  19   

Item 11.   
        
    Executive Compensation    
      
  19   

Item 12.   
        
    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    
      
  19   

Item 13.   
        
    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    
      
  19   

Item 14.   
        
    Principal Accounting Fees and Services    
      
  19   

PART IV   

Item 15.   
        
    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules     
      
  20   

Signatures     
      
  25   

Certifications   

Unless otherwise indicated, all information is as of February 24, 2009    

Table of Contents  

PART I          

Item 1.    Business           

General         
    Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon) is one of the world s leading providers of
communications services. Formerly known as Bell Atlantic Corporation, we were incorporated in 1983 under the laws of the State of Delaware. We began doing business as Verizon Communications on June 30, 2000 following our merger with GTE
Corporation. We completed our merger with MCI on January 6, 2006, and its operations are now part of our wireline business. We completed the acquisition of Alltel Corporation (Alltel) on January 9, 2009, making Verizon the largest wireless
service provider in the United States (U.S.) in terms of the total number of customers. Stressing diversity and commitment to the communities in which we operate, we have a highly diverse workforce of approximately 223,900 employees.      Our principal executive offices are located at 140 West Street, New York, New York 10007 (telephone number 212-395-1000).      We have two primary reportable segments, Domestic Wireless and Wireline, which we operate and manage as strategic business segments and organize by
products and services. These segments and principal activities consist of the following:       

Domestic Wireless       
     
    Domestic Wireless s products and services
include wireless voice, data services and other value-added services and equipment sales across the U.S.    
 
   Wireline   
     
    Wireline s communications services include voice, Internet access, broadband
video and data, next generation Internet protocol (IP) network services, network access, long distance and other services. We provide these services to consumers, carriers, businesses and government customers both in the U.S. and internationally in
150 countries.    
    The following portions of the 2008 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners are incorporated into this report:

Segment Results of Operations  on pages 19 through 23 and in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 66 through 68; and,

Discontinued Operations  and  Extraordinary Item  included in  Consolidated Results of Operations  on page 19.

Domestic Wireless         
     Background       Our Domestic Wireless segment, Cellco Partnership doing business as Verizon Wireless (Verizon Wireless), is a joint venture formed in April 2000 by the combination of the U.S. wireless operations and interests of
Verizon and Vodafone Group Plc (Vodafone). Verizon owns a controlling 55% interest in Verizon Wireless and Vodafone owns the remaining 45%.      On January 9, 2009, Verizon Wireless completed its purchase of Alltel from Atlantis Holdings LLC and paid approximately $5.9 billion for the equity of Alltel. The Alltel debt associated with the transaction, net of cash, was
approximately $22.2 billion. See    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Recent Developments  in the 2008 Annual Report to Shareowners. Unless otherwise indicated, the
following discussion of Verizon Wireless s business does not take into account the closing of the Alltel acquisition.       Operations    
  Verizon Wireless provides wireless voice and data services across one of the most extensive wireless networks in the U.S. We believe that Verizon
Wireless is the industry leading wireless service provider in the U.S., in terms of profitability, as measured by operating income. As a result of the Alltel acquisition on January 9, 2009, Verizon Wireless now serves more than
80 million customers, excluding markets to be divested, making it the largest wireless service provider in the U.S. in terms of the total number of customers.       Competition       In the U.S., we compete primarily against three other national wireless service providers: AT T, Sprint
Nextel and T-Mobile. In addition, in many markets we also compete with regional wireless service providers, such as US Cellular, Metro PCS and Leap Wireless and, prior to the Alltel acquisition, Alltel. We also compete with resellers that buy bulk
wholesale service from facilities based wireless service providers for resale. We expect competition to intensify as a result of continuing increases in wireless market penetration levels, the development and deployment of new technologies, the
introduction of new products and services, new market entrants, the availability of additional spectrum, both licensed and unlicensed, and regulatory changes. Competition may also increase if smaller, stand-alone wireless service providers merge or
transfer licenses to larger, better capitalized and more experienced wireless service providers.      The wireless industry also faces
competition from other communications and technology companies seeking to capture customer revenue and brand dominance with respect to the provision of wireless products and services. For example, Apple Inc. is packaging software applications and
content with its handsets, and Google Inc. has developed and deployed an operating system and related applications for mobile devices.         
   3   

Table of Contents  

   We believe that the following are the most important competitive factors in our industry:       

Network Reliability, Capacity and Coverage.  We believe that a wireless network that consistently provides high quality and reliable service is a key
differentiator in the U.S. market and a driver of customer satisfaction. Lower prices, improved service quality and new data service offerings have led to increased customer usage of wireless services, which impacts network capacity. In order to
compete effectively, wireless service providers must keep pace with network capacity needs and offer highly reliable national coverage through their networks. We believe that we have the nation s most reliable wireless voice and data network.
Third-party studies conducted in the fourth quarter of 2008 show that, on a percentage basis, we have the fewest dropped calls and the fewest ineffective attempts among the national wireless service providers in the 100 most populated U.S.
metropolitan areas. We continue to look for opportunities to expand our network through the build-out of our existing spectrum and the acquisition of new operating markets. In August 2008, we acquired Rural Cellular Corporation (Rural Cellular), a
wireless service provider with many second-tier rural markets, and Alltel in January 2009. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Recent Developments  in the 2008 Annual
Report to Shareowners. In addition, we were the winning bidder for certain licenses in the 700 MHz band covering the U.S. (except Alaska) in the Federal Communications Commission s (FCC) Auction 73 conducted in 2008. The FCC granted us these
licenses on November 26, 2008.          

Pricing . Service and equipment pricing play an important role in the wireless competitive landscape, as evidenced by recent increases in the marketing of
minutes-sharing plans, free mobile-to-mobile calling, offerings of larger bundles of included minutes at attractive prices, and plans offering unlimited voice calling. We seek to compete in this area by offering our customers services and equipment
that they will regard as the best available value for the price.          

Customer Service . We believe that high quality customer service is a key factor in retaining customers and in attracting both new-to-wireless customers
and customers of other wireless service providers. We continually focus on enhancing our customer service. Our competitors also recognize the importance of customer service and are focusing on improving the customer experience.

Product Development . As wireless technologies develop and wireless broadband networks proliferate, continued customer and revenue growth will be
increasingly dependent on the development of new and enhanced products and services. We are committed to continuing to pursue the development and rapid deployment of new and innovative devices, products and services both independently and in
collaboration with application service providers and device manufacturers.          

Sales and Distribution . The reach and quality of sales channels and distribution points is key to achieving success in the wireless industry. We believe
that attaining the optimal mix of direct, indirect and wholesale distribution channels is important to achieving industry-leading profitability, as measured by operating income. We endeavor to increase sales through our company-operated stores,
outside sales teams and telemarketing and web-based sales and fulfillment capabilities, as well as through our extensive indirect distribution network of retail outlets and prepaid replenishment locations, original equipment manufacturers and
value-added distributors. In addition, various resellers buy our service on a wholesale basis.          

Capital Resources.  In order to expand the capacity and coverage of their networks and introduce new products and services, wireless service providers
require significant capital resources. We generate significant cash flow from operations that is important in helping us to meet these requirements.         Our success will depend on our ability to anticipate and respond to various factors affecting the industry, including the factors described above, as well as new technologies, new business models, changes in customer
preferences, regulatory changes, demographic trends, economic conditions, and pricing strategies of competitors.       Network       A key part of our business strategy is to provide the highest network reliability. We are focused on designing and deploying our network in a manner that
we believe maximizes the number of calls that are connected and completed by our customers on the first attempt. We plan to continue to build out, expand and upgrade our network and explore strategic opportunities to expand our national network
coverage through selective acquisitions of wireless operations and spectrum licenses.      Our owned and operated network provided service in,
or covered, areas where approximately 269 million people resided, including coverage in 99 of the top 100 most populous U.S. metropolitan areas, as of December 31, 2008. Our primary network technology platform is CDMA, based on
spread-spectrum digital radio technology. We have deployed CDMA-1XRTT technology in virtually all of our cell sites nationwide. In addition, EV-DO, a third-generation packet-based technology intended primarily for high-speed data transmission, is
deployed in approximately 96% of the cell sites in our CDMA network, as of December 31, 2008, and additional deployment is ongoing. We also provide GSM service and fulfill GSM roaming obligations in certain markets as a result of our purchases
of Rural Cellular and Alltel.      We plan to develop and deploy a fourth-generation (4G) wireless broadband network using long-term
evolution (LTE) technology that is currently being developed within the Third Generation Partnership Project standards organization. This new technology follows GSM s evolutionary path but is different from, and is expected to be an improvement
upon, the previous generations of both GSM- and CDMA-based digital radio technologies. LTE is being designed to deliver 4G wireless voice and data networks with higher speed and throughput performance, and improved efficiencies. Many other major
wireless service providers, both domestic and foreign, have also selected LTE as the technology for their 4G deployments. As a result, we believe that LTE will provide us with the opportunity to adopt an access platform with global scale.
        
   4   

Table of Contents  

    Open Development Initiative       In 2008, as part of our open development initiative to provide customers with the ability to use devices and mobile applications that we do not sell, we published the technical interface standards that the development
community needs in order to design such devices. We believe that this initiative will spur innovation, expand customer choices and produce an array of new products for use on our network and, as a result, increase customer connections to our
network.       Spectrum       We have licenses to
provide wireless services on portions of the 800 MHz and/or 1800-1900 MHz spectrum bands in areas where approximately 96% of the estimated U.S. population reside, as of December 31, 2008. We obtained our spectrum assets through FCC lotteries,
auctions and allotments, and acquisitions from and exchanges with private parties. In parts of the U.S., we have licenses for AWS spectrum in segments of the 1710-2100 MHz band that we plan to use for the provision of new services.      In addition, on November 26, 2008, the FCC granted us 109 licenses for portions of the 700 MHz band for which we were the winning bidder in FCC
Auction 73 that concluded in March 2008. We have made all required payments to the FCC for these licenses. Certain of these licenses can be used to provide wireless service coverage to the entire population of the U.S. (except Alaska). We plan to
use the 700 MHz licenses for the provision of 4G wireless broadband services using LTE.      We anticipate that we will need additional
spectrum in a limited number of our markets to meet future demand. We can meet spectrum needs by acquiring licenses or leasing spectrum from other licensees, or by acquiring new spectrum licenses if and when offered by the FCC.       Wireless Offerings       We believe that increasing the
value of our service offerings to customers will help us to retain our existing customers and those we recently acquired as a result of the Alltel acquisition, as well as attract new customers and increase customer usage, all of which will drive
revenue and net income growth.       Wireless Services        Voice services.  We offer a variety of postpaid plans for voice services and features with competitive pricing. Specifically, we offer: Nationwide Calling Plans for individual customers, which provide a choice,
at varying prices and amounts of minutes of use, including unlimited usage; Nationwide  Family SharePlan  and other shared-minute plans designed for multiple-user households and small businesses; and Nationwide Business Plans targeted to
business accounts with over 100 lines and national accounts with over 1,000 lines.      All of the nationwide postpaid plans we currently offer
include, among other things, Mobile to Mobile Calling, which enables a customer to place calls to, or receive calls from, any other Verizon Wireless mobile number without the call time counting against their minute allotment, night and weekend
minute allowances, no domestic long distance charges and no domestic roaming charges for calls placed within the customer s coverage area. In addition, these plans also include access to the Internet through our Mobile Web service for an
additional monthly charge per megabytes sent and received. Several of our voice plan offerings include data service features, such as unlimited text, picture, video and instant messaging to any mobile number on any network in the U.S., and our  VZ
Navigator  and V CAST services free of any separate subscription fees. In addition, on February 15, 2009, we began offering our  Friends   Family  feature, which is available to customers on many of our single-line Nationwide Calling
Plans and our multi-line Nationwide  Family SharePlans . The feature allows these customers, depending upon their calling plans, to place calls to, and receive calls from, 5 to 10 phone numbers they designate (including domestic landline
numbers) without the call time counting against their minute allotment.      We also offer our Verizon Wireless Prepaid service that enables
customers to obtain wireless voice services without a long-term contract or credit verification by paying in advance. All of our prepaid plans include Mobile to Mobile Calling. In addition, our prepaid customers can also access certain of our key
data services, such as V CAST and  VZ Navigator , for additional fees.       Data services.  We believe that we are in a strong
position to take advantage of the growing demand for wireless data services. Our strategy is to continue to expand our wireless data offerings for both consumer and business customers.      We offer an array of data services and applications, such as:       

Text and Picture Messaging Services . With compatible wireless devices, our text and picture messaging service enables our customers to send and receive
text messages, enhanced messages with animations and graphics as well as still pictures, and voice and full-motion video clips with sound. With our premium messaging services, our customers can receive digital content provided by third parties in
various categories, including news, sports, entertainment, travel and weather.          

Mobile Broadband . Our Mobile Broadband service, available in substantially all areas covered by our network, enables our customers to access, at broadband
speeds through laptop computers, applications such as e-mail, enterprise applications, image downloads and full Internet browsing capabilities. The service is available to our customers at various price points that include data allowances in terms
of megabytes or gigabytes.            
   5   

Table of Contents  

Consumer-Focused Multimedia Offerings.  We provide our retail customers access to music, video, games, news and other content, as well as the Internet, on
their handsets. For example, our V CAST service, accessible on many of our handsets, enables our customers to get unlimited access to daily updated videos from leading content providers of news, sports, and entertainment programming for a monthly
fee that is in addition to their voice calling plan access charge. We also offer V CAST MobileTV, under an arrangement with Qualcomm s MediaFLO division, and V CAST Music with Rhapsody, each available on certain of our handsets. V CAST Music
with Rhapsody enables our customers to download music either directly to their handsets or to their personal computers, and V CAST MobileTV provides our customers access, in certain of our markets, to television programming, such as news and sports.
Our customers can also access our extensive library of handset-downloadable applications through our  Get It Now  service, such as ringtones, games and productivity tools. In addition, our Mobile Web service enables our customers to access the
Internet on their handsets through our VZW Today web portal.          

Business-Focused Offerings.  We offer our business customers an extensive variety of services focused on increasing their productivity and lowering their
costs. For example, our  VZAccess  service provides our business customers with solutions for accessing the Internet and their corporate intranets.  VZEmail  offers a compelling suite of products that enables wireless e-mail across our
diverse portfolio of wireless devices. Our  Wireless Office  suite of services offers our business customers with at least 50 lines of service, calling features traditionally associated with landline/PBX phones, such as abbreviated dialing,
through the use of their existing wireless devices.          

Location-Based Services . We offer several location-based services targeted to consumer and business customers. For example, our  VZ Navigator 
application enables customers to obtain audible turn-by-turn directions to their destinations, locate points of interest and access other location-related information by using  VZ Navigator -capable handsets. Our  Chaperone  service
provides  Family SharePlan  customers with the ability to locate the wireless device of other  Family SharePlan  customers in their plan by accessing the Internet via a computer or by using a  Chaperone -enabled mobile wireless
device. In addition, the  Child Zone  feature lets the customer set location boundaries on a family member s wireless device and sends an alert to the customer when the device enters and leaves these boundaries.  Field Force Manager ,
targeted to our business customers, is a location-based mobile resource management tool that provides businesses with the ability to locate, monitor and communicate with their mobile field workers.          

Telematics Services.  Telematics generally involves the integration of wireless services into private and commercial vehicles, often incorporating both a
voice and data capability. Telematics services include navigation assistance, roadside and emergency notification services, concierge services and stolen vehicle tracking. We support telematics services for some of the largest automotive Original
Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs), and we are currently the national provider of wireless service for General Motors  OnStar. We do not currently include telematics customers in our company s customer count.          

Telemetry Services . Telemetry generally refers to services that are characterized by machine-to-machine interactions that do not include a voice
component. With telemetry services, data transmissions are used by customers to monitor stationary equipment, such as residential and commercial security systems, and for the remote monitoring of control equipment in a wide variety of industries.
         Global Services       We
offer a variety of global services solutions, available using certain of the wireless devices we sell, targeted to the needs of our customers ranging from our multinational business accounts to our consumer customers who occasionally travel outside
of the U.S. Through roaming arrangements with certain wireless service providers outside of the U.S., this suite of solutions, including GlobalAccess and GlobalEmail, currently gives customers voice service in more than 215 destinations worldwide
and data access on their laptop computers equipped with our GSM PC cards and certain of our BlackBerry smartphones in more than 170 destinations worldwide.       Wireless Devices       We believe that our status in the U.S. wireless industry has enabled us to become a wireless service
provider of choice for wireless device manufacturers and has helped us to develop exclusive wireless device offers for our customers and branded handsets that complement our focus on high-quality service and an optimal user experience. The handsets
that we offer are predominantly EV-DO enabled. In addition, certain of these handsets have HTML-browsing capability. We refer to these handsets as  smartphones.  We offer smartphones from RIM, Palm, Samsung and Motorola, and we have
GSM-enabled smartphones that operate on GSM networks outside of the U.S. We also offer several smartphones that include touch-screens, such as the Blackberry Storm, Samsung Omnia, LG  Voyager  and LG  Dare .      Our customers can access the Internet wirelessly at broadband speeds on their computers via data cards that we offer, using EV-DO-enabled handsets with
connector cables, and on certain OEM laptop computers with embedded EV-DO Mobile Broadband modules.      All of the handsets that we offer
comply with the FCC s E-911 requirements. The majority of our handsets are also Bluetooth compatible.         
   6   

Table of Contents  

    Suppliers       We purchase wireless devices and accessory products from a number of manufacturers, with the substantial majority of our purchases made from LG InfoComm, Samsung, Motorola, RIM, Palm, PCD, Pantech, HTC and Nokia. A key component of all
wireless handsets is the chipset, which contains the  intelligence  of the handset. Most of our handset suppliers rely on Qualcomm for manufacturing and supplying CDMA-1XRTT and EV-DO chipsets. We do, however, sell handsets that include
chipsets provided by an alternative chipset vendor, VIA Telecom.      We depend upon a number of key suppliers and, if any of them fail to
fulfill their obligations to us, we may not be able to provide services or maintain and upgrade our network. In January 2009, one of our suppliers   Nortel Networks Inc., a U.S. subsidiary of Nortel Networks Corp. (Nortel)   and certain
other U.S. subsidiaries of Nortel filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the United States. In addition, Nortel and certain of its non-U.S. subsidiaries filed for similar relief in the courts of Canada and the United Kingdom. Although we can
provide no assurances, we do not believe that this bankruptcy will have a material adverse impact on our ability to operate our network or on our business.       Marketing       We focus our marketing strategy on offering solutions that are targeted to various customer market segments, such
as young adults, seniors, families and small to large businesses; promoting our brand; leveraging our extensive distribution network; and cross-marketing with Verizon s other business units and Vodafone.      Our marketing plan includes a coordinated program of television, print, radio, outdoor signage, Internet and point-of-sale media promotions, which
ensures that our marketing message is consistently presented across all of our markets. In connection with the Alltel acquisition, we are also re-branding Alltel s operations to those of  Verizon Wireless  during the next several
months. Promoting the  Verizon Wireless  brand is complemented by brand marketing activities of Verizon Communications, reinforcing the awareness of our services in shared markets and capitalizing on the size and breadth of the customer
base of Verizon Communications.       Sales and Distribution Channels       We utilize a mix of direct, indirect and wholesale distribution channels in order to increase customer growth while reducing customer acquisition costs.      Our direct distribution channel includes our company-operated stores, which are a key component of our distribution strategy. Our experience has been that customers that we obtain through this
direct channel are less likely to cancel their service than those who come through other mass-market channels. We had approximately 2,500 company-operated stores and kiosks (including our  store-within-a-store  kiosks in Circuit City and
BJ s Wholesale Club locations) as of December 31, 2008. On November 10, 2008, Circuit City filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection and subsequently announced that it is liquidating its assets and closing all of its stores
throughout the U.S. by March 31, 2009. On February 16, 2009, we completed the closing of all our kiosks within Circuit City stores. We do not anticipate that the Circuit City liquidation and store closings will have a material adverse
impact on our direct distribution channel or on our business.      Our direct channel also includes our business-to-business organization,
which is focused on supporting the wireless communications needs of our local, regional and national business customers, as well as a telemarketing sales force dedicated to handling incoming calls from customers. We also offer fully-automated,
end-to-end web-based sales of wireless devices, accessories and service in all of our markets.      Our indirect retail channel consists of
agents that sell our postpaid and/or prepaid wireless products and services at their retail locations throughout the U.S. In addition, national retailers, such as Best Buy, Wal-Mart, Costco and Target, sell our postpaid and prepaid wireless products
and services. We also sell wireless capacity on a wholesale basis, which involves the sale of wholesale access, minutes and data services to independent companies that resell wireless services to end-users.       Customer Service, Retention and Satisfaction       We
believe that high quality customer service is a key differentiator because it increases customer satisfaction and reduces customer churn. Therefore, satisfying and retaining customers is critical to the financial performance of wireless service
providers and an essential element of our strategy. Our customer service, retention and satisfaction programs are based on providing customers with convenient and easy-to-use products and services, in order to promote long-term relationships and
minimize churn.      While our customer service representatives are available during our normal business hours, we also have representatives
available 24-hours-a-day, 7-days-a-week to assist with emergency and technical customer issues. In addition, customers can do business with us at any time, without having to speak with a customer service representative, through our enhanced
self-service applications via our interactive voice response system, through our website, and via applications accessible from customer handsets.      Under our enhanced Worry Free Guarantee, a national customer retention and loyalty initiative, we have committed to providing our customers with an extensive and advanced network, responsive customer service with end-to-end resolution, the
option to change at any time to any qualifying wireless service plan without paying any additional fees or requiring any contract extension, an early termination fee that decreases after each full month that a customer remains on their contract, and
a handset upgrade credit every two years, provided that the customer signs a new two-year contract for a calling plan with at least a $35 monthly access charge. In addition, our My Verizon Advantage program offers each customer who registers with
our My Verizon website free back-up protection for the customer s phone contact list, an annual handset upgrade option for qualified customers and periodic notification if the customer exceeds his or her plan allowance. Another significant
retention and  
       
   7   

Table of Contents  

loyalty program is the customer lifecycle management program in which we contact customers at key times during the customer relationship about targeted
offers and to provide proactive rate plan analysis.       Alltel Acquisition and Integration       As a condition of the regulatory approvals from the Department of Justice and the FCC that were required to complete the Alltel acquisition, we will divest overlapping wireless properties in 105
operating markets in 24 states ( Alltel Divestiture Markets ). These properties consist primarily of Alltel operations, but also include the pre-merger operations of Verizon Wireless in four markets as well as operations in Southern
Minnesota and Western Kansas that we acquired from Rural Cellular in 2008. As a result of these divestiture requirements, we have placed the wireless licenses and assets in the Alltel Divestiture Markets in a management trust that will continue to
operate the properties under their current brands until they are sold, and these properties will not be integrated with our other operations.      We expect to experience substantial operational benefits from the Alltel acquisition, including reduced overall combined capital expenditures as a result of greater economies of scale and the rationalization of network assets. In addition,
we anticipate combined overall cost savings from reduced roaming costs as a result of moving more traffic to the Verizon Wireless network, reduced network-related costs resulting from the elimination of duplicate facilities, and reduced overall
expenses relating to advertising, overhead and headcount.      Alltel s CDMA network covered a population of approximately
77 million, as of September 30, 2008. As of the completion of the Alltel acquisition on January 9, 2009, our combined overall network coverage expanded to approximately 288 million people, including the Alltel Divestiture
Markets.      Alltel uses the same primary network platform technology as Verizon Wireless   CDMA   and it has deployed 1XRTT
technology in virtually its entire CDMA network. Alltel also provides EV-DO coverage to approximately 79% of the population covered by its network, as of September 30, 2008. Because our and Alltel s networks employ CDMA, we anticipate that
we will be able to rapidly integrate Alltel s network operations with ours, and that the majority of Alltel customers will be able to continue to use their current handsets after the integration is completed.      The Alltel markets that will be retained and combined with our operations will continue to use the Alltel brand for the next several months, as we work
to integrate networks, convert billing systems and upgrade Alltel s high-speed wireless broadband service. We will maintain Alltel s existing GSM networks in the retained markets to continue serving the roaming needs of GSM carriers 
customers.      We believe that Alltel s sales, marketing and distribution efforts have been similar to ours, targeted to addressing the
needs of a variety of customer segments, stimulating usage, increasing penetration and improving customer retention rates through various product offerings and pricing strategies. To accomplish these objectives, Alltel has offered competitive
post-paid local, statewide and national service plans at varying prices, as well as prepaid plans.      Alltel distributes its products and
services through its owned retail stores and retail kiosks, dealers and direct sales representatives, via the Internet and telemarketing.      Alltel s retail distribution channel included approximately 750 Alltel-operated locations, as of September 30, 2008.      Alltel s direct sales force focuses its efforts on selling and servicing larger business customers who have multiple lines of service. Direct sales representatives are trained to sell to and service the demands of larger wireless
customers who often have special service and equipment requirements.      Alltel enters into dealer agreements with national and local
retailers and discounters in its markets. In exchange for a commission payment, these dealers solicit customers for Alltel s wireless services. The majority of these dealers can service Alltel s existing customers by offering additional
services, features and accessories, and taking bill payments.      Alltel also provides consumer and business customers with the opportunity to
shop for the majority of its products and services by phone or the Internet via Alltel s web store. Utilizing direct fulfillment, phone and accessories purchased through these distribution channels are delivered directly to the customer. These
channels provide customers with exclusive pricing where appropriate and provide Alltel the ability to respond quickly to market changes.      Alltel s stores will remain open, as we work to integrate Alltel s sales, marketing and distribution operations with those of Verizon Wireless. We will re-brand Alltel operations in the retained markets in phases, beginning in the
second quarter of 2009 and continuing through the third quarter of 2009, as billing conversions are completed throughout the country. We will continue to evaluate Alltel store and agent locations to ensure that they are strategically located in
order to achieve our distribution objectives.         
   8   

Table of Contents  

Wireline         
     Background       Our Wireline segment includes two strategic units, Verizon Telecom and Verizon Business. In 2008, Wireline revenues were $48,214 million, representing approximately 49.5% of Verizon s aggregate revenues. Our
Wireline segment is not dependent on any single customer.       

Verizon Telecom provides voice, video and data services to residential and small business customers in 28 states and Washington D.C. Verizon Telecom operates a
Fiber-to-the-Premises (FTTP) network under the FiOS service mark. This advanced fiber-optic network offers sufficient bandwidth for voice, data and video services and is designed to handle future broadband and video applications. FiOS provides our
customers with fast, reliable broadband access speeds, high definition video with exceptional clarity and vividness and digital voice services.          

Verizon Business provides voice, data, Internet communications, next-generation IP network and Information Technology (IT) products and services to medium and
large businesses and government customers both domestically and internationally.         In the discussion that follows, 2008
revenue amounts for each of the Wireline units are presented before intrasegment eliminations of $2,824 million.       Operations        Verizon Telecom       Verizon Telecom offers a broad array
of telecommunications services, including voice, broadband and video, network access and other communications products and services to our residential, small business and wholesale customers. Verizon Telecom s three sales channels operate
across our telephone subsidiaries and focus on specific customer market areas.       Mass Markets  offers broadband, video and voice
services to residential and small business customers. Broadband services include high speed Internet and FiOS Internet services. Video services include FiOS TV and other television services. Voice services include local exchange services, including
calling cards, 800/888 and operator services, as well as value-added services, such as voicemail, call waiting and caller identification. In 2008, Mass Markets revenues were $20,974 million, representing approximately 43.5% of Wireline s
aggregate revenues.       Wholesale  markets our long distance and local exchange network facilities for resale to interexchange
carriers, competitive local exchange carriers (CLECs), wireless carriers and Internet service providers (ISPs). Wholesale services include switched access products, high-capacity data products, unbundled network elements (UNEs) and
interconnection services. In 2008, Wholesale revenues were approximately $7,571 million, representing approximately 15.7% of Wireline s aggregate revenues.      Other  service offerings include operator services, public (coin) telephone, as well as dial around services including 10-10-987, 10-10-220, 1-800-COLLECT and prepaid phone cards. In 2008, revenues from these
other services were $1,367 million, representing approximately 2.8% of Wireline s aggregate revenues.       Verizon Business       Verizon Business offers advanced voice, data, security, and wireless solutions to medium and large business and government customers worldwide. Verizon
Business derives the majority of its revenue from U.S. operations. Verizon Business provides services to tens of thousands of enterprise businesses and government agencies, including 98% of the Fortune 500 companies. We have organized Verizon
Business into three sales channels that focus on specific customers.       Enterprise Business  offers voice, data and Internet
communications services to medium and large business customers, including multi-national corporations and state and federal governments. Enterprise Business also provides value-added services intended to make communications more secure, reliable and
efficient. Enterprise Business provides managed network services for customers that outsource all or portions of their communications and information processing operations and data services such as Private IP, Ethernet, Private Line, Frame Relay and
ATM services, both domestically and internationally. Enterprise Business revenues in 2008 were $14,411 million, representing approximately 29.9% of Wireline s aggregate revenues.       Wholesale  offers domestic and international voice, data and IP services over its global network to carriers and service providers, some of whom may compete directly
with Verizon at the retail level. These customers purchase services on a wholesale basis so that they can transport voice, data and IP traffic without having to build their own infrastructure. In 2008, total Wholesale revenue was $3,341
million, representing approximately 6.9% of Wireline s aggregate revenues.     Our  International and Other  operations serve
retail and wholesale customers, including enterprise businesses, government entities and telecommunications carriers outside of the U.S., primarily in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, the Asia Pacific region, Latin America and Canada. These
operations provide telecommunications services, which include voice, data, Internet and managed network services. Our revenue from International and Other was $3,374 million, representing 7% of Wireline s aggregate revenues in 2008.  
     
   9   

Table of Contents  

    Competition       The wireline telecommunications industry is highly competitive. We expect competition to intensify further with traditional, non-traditional and emerging players seeking increased market share. Current and potential competitors include
cable companies, wireless service providers, other domestic and foreign telecommunications providers, satellite television companies, ISPs and other companies that offer network services and managed enterprise solutions. Many of these companies have
a strong market presence, brand recognition, and existing customer relationships, all of which contribute to intensifying competition and which may affect our future revenue growth.      We believe that cable operators represent the most significant threat to our wireline business. Cable operators have increased the size and digital capacity of their networks so that they can
offer digital products and services. We continue to market competitive bundled offerings that include high-speed Internet access, digital television and voice services. Several major cable operators also offer bundles with wireless services through
strategic relationships.      Wireless substitution is an ongoing competitive trend which we expect to continue as wireless companies position
their service as a landline alternative. We also face increasing competition from companies that provide Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) services. These services use the Internet or private broadband networks to transmit voice communications.
VoIP services are available from a wide range of companies including cable companies, and national and regional providers. Internet portal providers are also entering our competitive space.      As a result of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which requires us to allow potential competitors to purchase our services for resale, or access components of our network on an unbundled basis
at a prescribed cost, competition in our local exchange markets continues. Our telephone operations generally have been required to sell their services to CLECs at significant discounts from the prices our telephone operations charge their retail
customers. The scope of these obligations going forward and the rates we receive, are subject to ongoing review and revision by the FCC and state regulators. See  Regulatory and Competitive Trends  in the 2008 Verizon Annual Report to
Shareowners.      We believe the following are the most important competitive factors and trends in the wireline industry:       

Network bandwidth (speed):  As both consumers and small business customers look to leverage high speed connections for entertainment, communications, and
productivity, we expect broadband penetration will continue to increase over the next several years due to market maturity. As online and online-enabled activities increase, so will bandwidth requirements, both downstream and upstream. To succeed,
Verizon and other network-based providers must ensure that their networks can deliver against these increasing bandwidth requirements. We are continuing to build out our FiOS network to be able to meet the future demand in many markets.

Pricing:  Pricing will be a significant factor in two key areas. Cable and telecommunications companies will use pricing to capture market share from
incumbents. Pricing will also be significant as non-traditional modes of providing communication services emerge and new entrants compete for customers. For example, portal-based and VoIP calling is free or nearly free to customers and is often
supported by advertising revenues.          

Product differentiation:  As a result of pricing pressures, providers will need to differentiate their products. Verizon believes that there are many
market trends that provide potential opportunities. Customers are shifting from an access to an applications mindset and are focused on how they can leverage their broadband and video connections. Converged features, such as integrated wireless and
wireline functionality, are becoming similarly important, enabled by both customer demand and technological advancement.          Network  
     As of December 31, 2008, our wireline network included more than 36,161,000 wireline access lines, 8,673,000 broadband connections and
1,918,000 FiOS TV customers nationwide. Our business strategy is to be the premier broadband and entertainment service provider in the mass market, while maintaining the level of network reliability currently provided by our telephony network. We
are executing on this strategy by deploying FTTP access technologies over fiber optic cables. FTTP provides the highest possible bandwidth to the customer premise, based on current technology. The FTTP deployment also allows us the flexibility to
adapt our facilities more easily to future product development. New optical terminals can be added to the FTTP network, providing greater bandwidth and new services without any additional field construction. We expanded our deployment of the most
advanced Fiber Optic Network by passing approximately an additional 3.1 million premises with FTTP and by enhancing it with Gigabit Passive Optical Network (GPON) technology. GPON technology will continue to support the services we offer today,
while allowing for the introduction of new services through improved downstream and upstream capacity.      In conjunction with the evolution
of our access plant, we are also transitioning our metro (local) network infrastructure from traditional TDM/SONET (Synchronous Optical Network)/ATM technologies to Ethernet over Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexing (DWDM). In 2008 we continued to
deploy Reconfigurable Optic Add Drop Multiplexer (ROADM) nodes in the transport network. As a result, the new optical transport network provides features optimized for video distribution services and high speed data services, while maintaining the
level of network reliability achieved with SONET.      To fully leverage this new network infrastructure and allow for the more efficient
sharing of our network across services, we are upgrading our multiplexing and routing infrastructure to use IP, Ethernet and MPLS (Multi Protocol Label Switching) technologies. In addition, we are migrating from traditional TDM-based voice switching
to VoIP. This migration lowers the lifecycle cost of current data and voice services and creates a network which can offer future multi-media communications services by adding service platforms without requiring widespread network upgrades. In
keeping with our strategy of leading in network reliability, our service infrastructure utilizes our managed Quality of Service-enabled resilient IP network rather than the public Internet.         
   10   

Table of Contents  

   We advanced our goal of becoming a leading IP services provider to the global business market by
acquiring one of the most expansive IP networks in the world through the MCI merger in 2006. We have been focused on growing our Ethernet infrastructure to support the full range of Ethernet private line and E-LAN services locally, domestically and
globally. To lower the access cost and provide significant services flexibility, we are using a converged packet access strategy that replaces the private circuit-based customer access and aggregates traffic from multiple customers onto a shared
Ethernet and MPLS network. We have also focused on the expansion of the Private IP network (PIP) to serve all key international markets with managed Quality of Service-aware IP Virtual Private Network (VPN) services. Verizon s Public IP network
is now interconnected to PIP through Security Gateway platforms that allow business customers to extend the reach of their private virtual networks to  off-net  sites, such as employees  homes, small branch offices and mobile work
forces. These enhancements extend our IP services reach across the globe.      We continue to focus on emerging optical transport technologies
and expansion of our network to lower overall cost. We are integrating Ethernet, SONET and Optics, and Ultra Long Haul technologies. In addition, we have deployed a new, next generation undersea cable technology through the Trans-Pacific Express
(TPE) connecting the west coast of the U.S. to China, Korea and Taiwan.       Wireline Offerings       Verizon Telecom s strategy is to be the customer s first choice for communications and entertainment services. We offer a variety of packages for these services that we believe are
competitively priced.       Voice Services.  We offer packages that include local exchange services, regional and long distance services,
VoIP services, wire maintenance, as well as voice messaging and value-added services. Value-added services expand the utilization of our network and include products such as Caller ID, Call Waiting and Return Call. In 2008 we continued to offer new
calling plans and to bundle landline and wireless services, with calling features and unlimited calling between a customer s home phone and wireless handset, all on a single bill.       Data Services.  We offer high speed Internet and FiOS broadband data products with varying downstream and upstream processing speeds. In 2008 we enhanced our FiOS offers by increasing
availability of our symmetrical FiOS Internet service with upload speeds of up to 20Mbps, as well as 50Mbps for download service. Our data packages include technical support, anti-virus and spam protection, and email online storage.       Video Services.  We offer FiOS TV and Verizon s fiber-optic video service and market a variety of DIRECTV packages that are delivered over
satellite systems. FiOS TV provides access to more than 300 all-digital channels and up to 100 high definition channels and now is available to more than 9 million homes across 14 states: New York, New Jersey, California, Delaware, Texas,
Florida, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Indiana, Massachusetts, Virginia, Rhode Island, Oregon and Washington. Innovative features that differentiate FiOS TV from the competition include:       

Channel Line-up    We designed the channel line-up for ease of use, grouping channels by category.          

High Definition Content    We offer up to 100 channels in high definition with exceptional clarity and vividness and clear digital sound (Dolby 5.1).

Video on Demand    We offer access to as many as 14,000 movies and shows via subscription, transactional and free on-demand programming, including
high definition video on demand.          

Interactive Media Guide    Our FiOS TV guide helps customers quickly and easily find content from television listings, video on demand catalogs and
their own personal music and photo files.          

Home Media DVR    Our multi-room digital video recorder also includes the Interactive Media Guide.          

FiOS TV Widgets    Viewers get one-touch, on demand access to local weather, traffic and community information.          

Personalized Settings and Controls    Customers can control the content received on their televisions.         Verizon Business products are classified as either Core or Strategic Services. In 2008, Core Services comprised 70% of Verizon Business revenues, and
Strategic Services comprised 30%.       Core Services . Verizon has the experience, reliability, and product depth to support voice
solutions globally. Core Services provide a comprehensive product portfolio and a convergence plan for current and future VoIP services. Core Data services include Frame Relay, ATM, and Private Line access technologies. Core Services also include
customer premises equipment (CPE) and value-added services such as installation, maintenance, and site services and supports a wide variety of technology partners in both the voice and data markets.         
   11   

Table of Contents  

    Strategic Services.  Our Strategic Service offerings can be grouped into three main categories: IP
and data services, including connectivity to the Internet; managed IT and professional services, including security; and advanced voice services. Verizon Business offers IP Services, including IP Contact Center solutions, Internet, IP
Communications, Private IP (MPLS), and Secure Gateway services. With professional services personnel in more than 30 countries to assist customers in adopting new IT solutions, including application management, infrastructure services, unified
communications, contact center solutions, and security and business continuity services, Verizon Business seeks to transform the way enterprises operate today.      Customers can choose to purchase customized packages that include some or all of our Strategic Services, which they can manage internally or we can manage for them:       

Private IP    Our fastest growing service around the world, our MPLS   based solution enables customers to securely leverage the efficiency,
performance and value of IP. MPLS solutions increase the speed of network traffic as it travels over various platforms including IP, ATM and Frame Relay.          

Managed Services    Offers companies the opportunity to realize the simplicity, efficiency and total cost-of-ownership savings of outsourcing the
management of their networks, security, remote access, and web applications.          

Enterprise Mobility    Enables customers to remotely access the power of our global IP network and leverage wireless applications.

Applications Hosting    Offers hosting and managing of corporate software applications and provides content delivery for customers.

Customer Service Management    Provides tools that improve the customers  experience and increases call center efficiency and productivity.

Security    Provides integrated solutions to help companies secure their networks and data.          

Recent Developments         
     Recent Developments  included in  Other Factors That May Affect Future
Results  on pages 30 through 31 of the 2008 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners is incorporated by reference into this report.       

Regulatory and Competitive Trends         
     Regulatory and Competitive Trends  included in  Other Factors That May Affect
Future Results  on pages 31 through 34 of the 2008 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners is incorporated by reference into this report.       

Employees         
    As of December 31, 2008, Verizon and its subsidiaries had approximately 223,900 employees.
Unions represent approximately 38% of our employees.       

Information on Our Internet Website         
    We make available, free of charge on our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports at www.verizon.com/investor. Verizon has adopted a code of ethics, as that term is defined in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K, which applies to our Chief
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller. A copy of this code may be found on our website at www.verizon.com/investor. Any amendments to this code, or any waiver of this code for any executive officer will be posted on that website.
        
   12   

Table of Contents  

Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements         
    In this annual report on Form 10-K we have made forward-looking statements. These statements are
based on our estimates and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include the information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations. Forward-looking statements also include those
preceded or followed by the words  anticipates,   believes,   estimates,   hopes  or similar expressions. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements
contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.      The following important factors, along with those discussed elsewhere
in this annual report, could affect future results and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements:       

the effects of adverse conditions in the U.S. and international economies;          

the effects of competition in our markets;          

materially adverse changes in labor matters, including workforce levels and labor negotiations, and any resulting financial and/or operational impact, in the
markets served by us or by companies in which we have substantial investments;          

the effects of material changes in available technology;          

any disruption of our suppliers  provisioning of critical products or services;          

significant increases in benefit plan costs or lower investment returns on plan assets;          

the impact of natural or man-made disasters or existing or future litigation and any resulting financial impact not covered by insurance;

technology substitution;          

an adverse change in the ratings afforded our debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations or adverse conditions in the credit markets
impacting the cost, including interest rates, and/or availability of financing;          

any changes in the regulatory environments in which we operate, including any loss of or inability to renew wireless licenses, and the final results of federal
and state regulatory proceedings and judicial review of those results;          

the timing, scope and financial impact of our deployment of fiber-to-the-premises broadband technology;          

changes in our accounting assumptions that regulatory agencies, including the SEC, may require or that result from changes in the accounting rules or their
application, which could result in an impact on earnings;          

our ability to successfully integrate Alltel Corporation into Verizon Wireless s business and achieve anticipated benefits of the acquisition; and

the inability to implement our business strategies.            
   13   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A.    Risk
Factors       
      The following discussion of  Risk Factors 
identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect our business, operations, financial position or future performance. This information should be read in conjunction with Management s Discussion and Analysis and the consolidated
financial statements and related notes included in this report. The following discussion of risks is not all-inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our business and expectations.
These factors could cause our future results to differ materially from our historical results and from expectations reflected in forward-looking statements.       Adverse conditions in the U.S. and international economies could impact our results of operations.       Unfavorable general
economic conditions, such as a recession or economic slowdown in the U.S. or in one or more of our other major markets, could negatively affect the affordability of and demand for some of our products and services. In difficult economic conditions,
consumers may seek to reduce discretionary spending by forgoing purchases of our products, electing to use fewer higher margin services or obtaining products and services under lower-cost programs offered by other companies. Similarly, under these
conditions the business customers that we serve in the U.S. and abroad may delay purchasing decisions, delay full implementation of service offerings or reduce their use of services. In addition, adverse economic conditions may lead to an increased
number of our consumer and business customers that are unable to pay for services. If these events were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.       We face significant competition that may reduce our market share and lower our profits.       We face
significant competition in our industry. The rapid development of new technologies, services and products has eliminated the traditional distinctions between local, long distance, wireless, cable and Internet communication services and brought new
competitors to our markets, including other telephone companies, cable companies, wireless service providers, satellite providers, electric utilities, and providers of VoIP services. While these changes have enabled us to offer new types of
services, they have also allowed other service providers to broaden the scope of their own competitive offerings. Our ability to compete effectively will depend on, among other things, our network quality, capacity and coverage, the pricing of our
services and equipment, the quality of our customer service, our development of new and enhanced products and services, the reach and quality of our sales and distribution channels and our capital resources. It will also depend on how successfully
we anticipate and respond to various factors affecting our industry, including new technologies and business models, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends and economic conditions. We are subject to more regulation and have higher cost
structures than many of our competitors, due in part to the presence of a unionized workforce and a large retiree population in our wireline business. In addition, while the workforce of our wireless business is almost entirely non-union, we cannot
predict what level of success unions may have in organizing this workforce or the potentially negative impact of such labor organizing on our costs. Accordingly, our competitors may be able to profitably offer services at lower prices. The resulting
pressure on the price of services we provide may result in reduced revenues and profits.       If we are not able to take advantage of technological
developments in the telecommunications industry on a timely basis, we may experience a decline in a demand for our services or may be unable to implement our business strategy.       Our industry is experiencing rapid change as new technologies are developed that offer consumers an array of choices for their communications needs. In order to grow and remain competitive, we
will need to adapt to future changes in technology, to enhance our existing offerings and introduce new offerings to address our customers  changing demands. If we are unable to meet future advances in competing technologies on a timely basis
or at an acceptable cost, we could lose customers to our competitors. In general, the development of new services in our industry requires us to anticipate and respond to the varied and continually changing demands of our customers. We may not be
able to accurately predict technological trends or the success of new services in the market. In addition, there could be legal or regulatory restraints to our introduction of new services. If these services fail to gain acceptance in the
marketplace, or if costs associated with implementation and completion of the introduction of these services materially increase, our ability to retain and attract customers could be adversely affected.      For example, we have selected Long Term Evolution technology ( LTE ) as our next-generation wireless network access technology. We expect this
new technology to enable us to offer a mobile data network with higher speeds and improved efficiencies. Other wireless service providers have announced their plans to adopt LTE as their next-generation technology, and we believe that it will become
the principal next-generation global standard. There are risks, however, that these other wireless service providers may delay their deployment of LTE or change their selection and adopt different next-generation technologies, including technologies
that are incompatible with ours. As a result, LTE may not become the principal next-generation global standard and may not provide us with the global scale, compatibility and other benefits that we expect in a timely manner or at all. In addition,
our ability to successfully deploy LTE on our network in a timely manner depends on various factors that are beyond our control. These include the risk that the technical standards required for the successful development and deployment of LTE may
not be established in a timely manner and the risk that our suppliers may be unable to manufacture and deliver LTE devices and network equipment on schedule and according to our specifications. Furthermore, our deployment of LTE may not occur, or
occur at the cost we have estimated. If these risks materialize, our ability to provide next generation wireless services to our customers, to retain and attract customers, and to maintain and grow our customer revenues could be materially adversely
affected.         
   14   

Table of Contents  

    We depend on key suppliers and vendors to provide equipment that we need to operate our business.       We depend upon various key suppliers and vendors to provide us with the equipment that we need to operate our business. If these suppliers or vendors
fail to provide equipment or service to us on a timely basis or fail to meet our performance expectations, we may be unable to provide services to our customers in a competitive manner or continue to maintain or upgrade our networks. Because of the
costs and time lags that can be associated with transitioning from one supplier to another, our business could be substantially disrupted if we were required to, or chose to, replace the products or services of one or more major suppliers with
products or services from another source, especially if the replacement became necessary on short notice. Any such disruption could increase our costs, decrease our operating efficiencies and have a material adverse effect on our business, results
of operations and financial condition.      The suppliers and vendors on which we rely may also be subject to litigation with respect to
technology on which we depend, including litigation involving claims of patent infringement. Such claims have been growing rapidly in the communications industry. We are unable to predict whether our business will be affected by any such litigation.
We expect our dependence on key suppliers to continue as we develop and introduce more advanced generations of technology.       Changes in the regulatory
framework under which we operate could adversely affect our business prospects or results of operations.       Our domestic operations are
subject to regulation by the FCC and other federal, state and local agencies, and our international operations are regulated by various foreign governments and international bodies. These regulatory regimes frequently restrict our ability to operate
in or provide specified products or services in designated areas, require that we maintain licenses for our operations and conduct our operations in accordance with prescribed standards. We are frequently involved in regulatory proceedings related
to the application of these requirements. It is impossible to predict with any certainty the outcome of pending federal and state regulatory proceedings relating to our provision of retail or wholesale services, or the reviews by federal or state
courts of regulatory rulings. Unless we are able to obtain appropriate relief, existing laws and regulations may inhibit our ability to expand our business and introduce new products and services. Similarly, we cannot guarantee that we will be
successful at obtaining the licenses we need to carry out our business strategy or in maintaining our existing licenses. For example, the FCC grants wireless licenses for terms generally lasting 10 years that are subject to renewal, and there is no
guarantee that our licenses will be renewed. The loss of, or a material limitation on, certain of our licenses could have a material adverse effect on our wireless business, results of operations and financial condition.      The adoption of new laws or regulations or changes to the existing regulatory framework could also adversely affect our business plans. For example, the
development of new technologies, such as Internet Protocol-based services, including VoIP and super high-speed broadband and video, could be subject to conflicting regulation between the FCC and various state and local authorities, which could
significantly increase the cost of implementing and introducing new services based on this technology. In addition, the FCC has several proceedings pending that are considering the imposition of additional requirements on wireless services, such as
rules restricting the ways in which we can manage the use of our network. These rules, if adopted, could impose additional costs on us and potentially impede our ability to operate our wireless network in a manner that would be attractive to us and
our customers. The FCC has also initiated a number of proceedings to evaluate its rules and policies regarding spectrum licensing and usage that could adversely impact our utilization of our licensed spectrum and our operational costs. At the state
level, the rapid growth of the wireless industry has led to an increase in efforts by some state legislatures and state public utility commissions to regulate the industry in ways that may impose additional costs on our wireless business. Moreover,
many states have also imposed significant taxes on providers in the wireless industry.       Increases in costs for pension benefits and active and retiree
healthcare benefits may reduce our profitability and increase our funding commitments.       With approximately 223,900 employees and
approximately 213,000 retirees who participate in our benefit plans, the costs of pension benefits and active and retiree healthcare benefits have a significant impact on our profitability. Our costs of maintaining these plans, and the future
funding requirements for these plans, are affected by several factors including increases in healthcare costs, decreases in investment returns on funds held by our pension and other benefit plan trusts and changes in the discount rate used to
calculate pension and other postretirement expenses. If we are unable to limit future increases in costs associated with our benefit plans, those costs could reduce our profitability and increase our funding commitments.       Natural or man-made disasters could have an adverse effect on our business.       Natural disasters, terrorist acts, acts of war, cyber attacks or other breaches of network or information technology security may cause equipment failures or disrupt our operations. While we
maintain insurance coverage for some of these events, the potential liabilities associated with these events could exceed the insurance coverage we maintain. Our inability to operate our wireline or wireless networks as a result of such
events, even for a limited period of time, may result in significant expenses and/or loss of market share to other communications providers, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  
   Adverse changes in the credit markets could increase our borrowing costs and the availability of financing.       We require a significant amount of capital to operate and grow our business. We fund our capital needs in part through borrowings in the public and
private credit markets. Adverse changes in the credit markets, including increases in interest rates, could increase our cost of borrowing and make it more difficult for us to obtain financing for our operations. In addition, our borrowing costs can
be affected by short and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies which are based, in significant part, on our performance as measured by customary credit metrics. A decrease in these ratings would likely increase our cost of
borrowing and/or make it more difficult for us to obtain financing. The recent disruption in the global financial markets has also impacted some of the financial institutions with which we do business. A sustained decline in the stability of
financial institutions could affect our access to financing.         
   15   

Table of Contents  

    We are subject to a significant amount of litigation, which could require us to pay significant damages or
settlements.       Our business faces a substantial amount of litigation, including, from time to time, patent infringement lawsuits,
antitrust class actions, wage and hour class actions, personal injury claims and lawsuits relating to our advertising, sales, billing and collection practices. In addition, our wireless business also faces personal injury and consumer class action
lawsuits relating to alleged health effects of wireless phones or radio frequency transmitters, and class action lawsuits that challenge marketing practices and disclosures relating to alleged adverse health effects of handheld wireless phones. We
may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. In addition, we may be required to pay significant awards or settlements.       If we are not
able to successfully integrate Alltel into our business, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of this acquisition.       We expect to
gain certain benefits from the Alltel acquisition, including increased revenues, market penetration in Alltel s service areas, expansion of our network footprint and certain operating efficiencies and synergies. Achievement of these expected
benefits will depend on our efforts to integrate Alltel into our business. The challenges we may face in connection with these integration efforts include developing and deploying next generation wireless technology across the combined network and
combining product and service offerings, customer plans and sales and marketing approaches. If we do not successfully integrate Alltel in a cost effective manner, we may not realize any or all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition and our
financial results may be adversely affected.       

Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff
Comments       
      None.       

Item
2.    Properties       
       General       Our principal properties do not lend themselves to simple description by character and location. Our total investment in plant, property and equipment was approximately
$216 billion at December 31, 2008 and $214 billion at December 31, 2007, including the effect of retirements, but before deducting accumulated depreciation. Our gross investment in plant, property and equipment consisted of the following
at December 31:       
    Our properties are divided among our operating segments at December 31, as follows:       
    Network equipment consists primarily of cable (predominantly aerial, buried, underground or
undersea) and the related support structures of poles and conduit, wireless plant, switching equipment, network software, transmission equipment and related facilities. Land, buildings and building equipment consists of land and land improvements,
central office buildings or any other buildings that house network equipment, and buildings owned by Verizon that are used for administrative and other purposes. Furniture and other consists of public telephones and telephone equipment (including
PBXs), furniture, data processing equipment, office equipment, motor vehicles, plant under construction, capitalized computer software costs and leasehold improvements. A portion of our property is subject to the liens of their respective mortgages
securing funded debt.       Capital Expenditures       We continue to make significant capital expenditures to meet the demand for communications services and to further improve such services. Capital spending for Wireline was $9,797 million in 2008, $10,956 million in 2007 and $10,259 million
in 2006. Capital spending for Domestic Wireless was $6,510 million in 2008, $6,503 million in 2007 and $6,618 million in 2006.         
   16   

Table of Contents  

Item 3.    Legal Proceedings   
    
      Verizon, and a number of other telecommunications
companies, have been the subject of multiple class action suits concerning its alleged participation in intelligence-gathering activities allegedly carried out by the federal government, at the direction of the President of the United States, as
part of the government s post-September 11 program to prevent terrorist attacks. Plaintiffs generally allege that Verizon has participated by permitting the government to gain access to the content of its subscribers  telephone calls
and/or records concerning those calls and that such action violates federal and/or state constitutional and statutory law. Relief sought in the cases includes injunctive relief, attorneys  fees, and statutory and punitive damages. On
August 9, 2006, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation ( Panel ) ordered that these actions be transferred, consolidated and coordinated in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. The Panel
subsequently ordered that a number of  tag along  actions also be transferred to the Northern District of California. Verizon believes that these lawsuits are without merit. On July 10, 2008, the President signed into law the FISA
Amendments Act of 2008, which provides for dismissal of these suits by the court based on submission by the Attorney General of the United States of certain specified certifications. On September 19, 2008, the Attorney General made such a
submission in the consolidated proceedings which is currently under consideration by the court.      The New York State Department of
Environmental Conservation has advised Verizon New York Inc. (VZNY) of potential issues in connection with its underground storage tank registration, inspection and maintenance program. While VZNY does not believe that any of the alleged conditions
has resulted in a release or threatened release, aggregate penalties relating to alleged violations could exceed $100,000 because of the number of tanks operated by VZNY. VZNY does not believe that the cost of remedying any alleged violations will
be material.      Verizon Wireless has concluded an audit of its cell site, switch and non-retail building facilities under an audit agreement
with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The audit identified potential violations of various laws governing hazardous substance reporting, air permitting and spill plan preparation. A consent agreement relating to the audit is
pending final approval by the EPA. While Verizon Wireless does not believe that any of the alleged violations has resulted in a release or threatened release, aggregate penalties will exceed $100,000 because of the number of facilities operated by
Verizon Wireless. Verizon Wireless does not believe that the penalties ultimately incurred and the cost of remedying any alleged violations will be material.       

Item 4.    Submission of Matters to a Vote
of Security Holders       
      Not Applicable.       

PART II     
 
           Item
5.    Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities       
      The principal market for trading in the common stock
of Verizon is the New York Stock Exchange. The common stock is also listed in the U.S. on the Chicago stock exchange. As of December 31, 2008, there were 798,938 shareowners of record.      High and low stock prices, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape of transactions, and dividend data are as follows:       
    * Prices have been adjusted for the spin-off of our local exchange and related business assets in
Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont.      On February 7, 2008, the Board approved a share buyback program which authorized the repurchase of
up to 100 million common shares terminating no later than the close of business on February 28, 2011. The program permits Verizon to repurchase shares over time, with the amount and timing of repurchases depending on market conditions and
corporate needs. This share buyback program replaced a share buyback program which was previously approved by the Board on March 1, 2007. The Board also authorized Verizon to enter into Rule 10b5-1 plans from time to time to facilitate the
repurchase of its shares. A Rule 10b5-1 plan permits the Company to repurchase shares at times when it might otherwise be prevented from doing so, provided the plan is adopted when the Company is not aware of material non-public information.
     Verizon did not repurchase any shares of Verizon common stock during the fourth quarter of 2008. At December 31, 2008, the maximum
number of shares that may be purchased under our share buyback program was 74,015,938.         
   17   

Table of Contents  

Item 6.    Selected Financial Data           
      Information required by this item is included in the
2008 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners under the heading  Selected Financial Data  on page 13, which is incorporated herein by reference.       

Item 7.    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Financial Condition and Results of Operations           
      Information required by this item is included in the
2008 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners under the heading  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  on pages 14 through 35, which is incorporated herein by reference.       

Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk           
      Information required by this item is included in the
2008 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners under the heading  Market Risk  on page 28, which is incorporated herein by reference.       

Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data           
      Information required by this item is included in the
2008 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners on pages 38 through 71, which is incorporated herein by reference.       

Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure           
      None.       

Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures           
      Our chief executive officer and chief financial
officer have evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), as of the end of the period covered by this annual report,
that ensure that information relating to the registrant which is required to be disclosed in this report is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within required time periods. Based on this evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief
financial officer have concluded that the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2008.      There were no changes in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter of 2008 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting.      Management s report on internal control over financial reporting and the attestation report of
Verizon s independent registered public accounting firm are included in the 2008 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners on pages 36 through 37 and are incorporated herein by reference.       

Item 9B.    Other Information           
      None.         
   18   

Table of Contents  

PART III     
 
           Item 10.    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance       

Set forth below is information with respect to our
executive officers.       

Name  
      
  Age  
      
                  Office  
      
  Held Since       
 
    Ivan G. Seidenberg   
      
  62  
      
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  
      
  2000   
 
    Thomas A. Bartlett   
      
  50  
      
  Senior Vice President and Controller  
      
  2005   
 
    John W. Diercksen   
      
  59  
      
  Executive Vice President   Strategy, Development and Planning  
      
  2003   
 
    Shaygan Kheradpir   
      
  48  
      
  Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer  
      
  2007   
 
    John F. Killian   
      
  54  
      
  President   Verizon Business  
      
  2006   
 
    Richard J. Lynch   
      
  60  
      
  Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer  
      
  2007   
 
    Lowell C. McAdam   
      
  54  
      
    Executive Vice President and President and Chief Executive Officer   Verizon Wireless   
      
  2007   
 
    Daniel S. Mead   
      
  55  
      
  President   Verizon Telecom  
      
  2009   
 
    Randal S. Milch   
      
  50  
      
  Executive Vice President and General Counsel  
      
  2008   
 
    Marc C. Reed   
      
  50  
      
  Executive Vice President   Human Resources  
      
  2004   
 
    Virginia P. Ruesterholz   
      
  47  
      
  President   Verizon Services Operations  
      
  2009   
 
    John G. Stratton   
      
  47  
      
  Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer  
      
  2007   
 
    Dennis F. Strigl   
      
  62  
      
  President and Chief Operating Officer  
      
  2007   
 
    Thomas J. Tauke   
      
  58  
      
  Executive Vice President   Public Affairs, Policy and Communications  
      
  2004   
 
    Doreen A. Toben   
      
  59  
      
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  
      
  2002   
 
    Catherine T. Webster   
      
  56  
      
  Senior Vice President and Treasurer  
      
  2005   
    Prior to serving as an executive officer, each of the above officers has held high level
managerial positions with the company or one of its subsidiaries for at least five years. Officers are not elected for a fixed term of office and may be removed from office at any time at the discretion of the Board of Directors. For other
information required by this item see the sections entitled  Election of Directors,   About Verizon s Governance Practices,   About the Board of Directors and its Committees  and  Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to shareholders in connection with our 2009
Annual Meeting of Shareholders filed pursuant to Regulation 14A, which are incorporated herein by reference.       

Item 11.    Executive Compensation
       
      For information with respect to executive
compensation, see the section entitled  Executive Compensation  in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to shareholders in connection with our 2009 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference.       

Item 12.    Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters       
      For information with respect to the security ownership
of the Directors and Executive Officers and other equity compensation plan information, see the sections entitled  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  and  Approval of Verizon Communications Inc. Long-Term
Incentive Plan-Equity Compensation Plan Information  in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to shareholders in connection with our 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which are
incorporated herein by reference.       

Item 13.    Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions, and Director Independence       
      For information with respect to certain relationships
and related transactions, and director independence, see the sections entitled  About Verizon s Governance Practices  and  About the Board of Directors and its Committees  in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to shareholders in connection with our 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which are incorporated herein by reference.       

Item 14.    Principal Accounting Fees
and Services       
      For information with respect to principal accounting
fees and services, see the section entitled  Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to
shareholders in connection with our 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference.         
   19   

Table of Contents  

PART IV          

Item 15.    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules           
      (a) Documents filed as part of this report:       

Page   

(1)  
      
    Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   
      
  *   

(2)  
      
    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   
      
  *   

(3)  
      
    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial Statements   
      
  *   

Financial Statements covered by Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm:   

Consolidated Statements of Income   
      
  *   

Consolidated Balance Sheets   
      
  *   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   
      
  *   

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareowners  Investment   
      
  *   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
      
  *   

*       Incorporated herein by reference to the appropriate portions of the
registrant s Annual Report to Shareowners for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. (See Part II.)   

(4)  
      
    Financial Statement Schedule   

II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts   
      
  24   

(5)  
      
    Exhibits   

20   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit Number     

3a  
      
    Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon) (filed as Exhibit 3a to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and incorporated
herein by reference).    

3b  
      
    Bylaws of Verizon, as amended, effective as of December 4, 2008 (filed as Exhibit 3b to Form 8-K dated December 4, 2008 and incorporated herein by
reference).    

4  
      
    No instrument which defines the rights of holders of long-term debt of Verizon and its consolidated subsidiaries is filed herewith pursuant to Regulation S-K, Item
601(b)(4)(iii)(A). Pursuant to this regulation, Verizon hereby agrees to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the SEC upon request.    

10a  
      
    Description of Verizon Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (filed as Exhibit 10a to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000 and incorporated herein
by reference).**    

10a(i) Description of Amendment to Plan (filed as Exhibit 10a(i) to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and incorporated herein by
reference).**    

10b  
      
    Bell Atlantic Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors, as amended and restated (filed as Exhibit 10a to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998 and
incorporated herein by reference).**    

10c  
      
    Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Members of the Board of Directors of GTE, as amended (filed as Exhibit 10-1 to GTE s Form 10-K for the year ended December
31, 1997 and Exhibit 10.1 to GTE s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998, File No. 1-2755 and incorporated herein by reference).**    

10d  
      
    GTE s Directors  Deferred Stock Unit Plan (filed as Exhibit 10-8 to GTE s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997, File No. 1-2755 and incorporated
herein by reference).**    

10e  
      
    Description of Non-Employee Directors Travel Accident Insurance Coverage (filed as Exhibit 10e to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and incorporated by
reference).**    

10f  
      
    Bell Atlantic Directors  Charitable Giving Program, as amended (filed as Exhibit 10p to Form SE dated March 29, 1990 and Exhibit 10p to Form SE dated March 29, 1993
and incorporated herein by reference).**    

10g  
      
    GTE s Charitable Awards Program (filed as Exhibit 10-10 to GTE s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992, File No. 1-2755 and incorporated herein by
reference).**    

10h  
      
    NYNEX Directors  Charitable Award Program (filed as Exhibit 10i to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000 and incorporated herein by
reference).**    

10i  
      
    Verizon 2000 Broad-Based Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10h to Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2000 and incorporated herein by
reference).**    

10j  
      
    Verizon Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed as Appendix B to Verizon s 2001 Proxy Statement filed March 12, 2001 and incorporated herein by
reference).**    

10j(i) Restricted Stock Unit Agreement 2006-2008 Award Cycle (filed as Exhibit 10j(v) to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and incorporated herein by
reference).**    

10j(ii) Performance Stock Unit Agreement 2006-2008 Award Cycle (filed as Exhibit 10j(vi) to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and incorporated herein
by reference).**    

10j(ii)(a) Addendum to Performance Stock Unit Agreement (filed as Exhibit 10a to Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2006 and incorporated
herein by reference).**    

10j(iii) Restricted Stock Unit Agreement 2007-09 Award Cycle (filed as Exhibit 10a to Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference).**

10j(iii)(a) Special Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (filed as Exhibit 10c to Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2007 and incorporated herein
by reference).**    

10j(iv) Performance Stock Unit Agreement 2007-09 Award Cycle (filed as Exhibit 10b to Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference).**

10j(iv)(a) Form of Addendum to Performance Stock Unit Agreement (filed as Exhibit 10d to Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2007 and
incorporated herein by reference).**    
       
   21   

Table of Contents  

22   

Table of Contents  

10z  
      
    Employment Agreement between Verizon and Thomas J. Tauke (filed as Exhibit 10b to Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2004 and incorporated herein by reference).**

10aa  
      
    Form of Employment Agreement between Verizon and Band 1 Senior Management Employee (filed as Exhibit 10gg to the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and
incorporated herein by reference).**    

10bb  
      
    NYNEX Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (filed as Exhibit 10gg to NYNEX s Registration Statement No. 2-87850, File No. 1-8608 and incorporated herein
by reference).**    

10bb(i) Amendment to NYNEX Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (filed as Exhibit 10iii 5a to NYNEX s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
June 30, 1996, File No. 1-8608 and incorporated herein by reference).**    

10cc  
      
    U.S. Wireless Agreement, dated September 21, 1999, among Bell Atlantic and Vodafone Airtouch plc, including the forms of Amended and Restated Partnership Agreement and the
Investment Agreement (filed as Exhibit 10 to Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 1999 and incorporated herein by reference).    

10dd  
      
    Credit Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2008, among Verizon Wireless and Verizon Wireless Capital LLC, as co-borrowers, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and
the lenders named therein (filed as Exhibit 99 to Form 8-K dated December 19, 2008 and incorporated herein by reference).    

12  
      
    Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges filed herewith.    

13  
      
    Portions of Verizon s Annual Report to Shareowners for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 filed herewith. Only the information incorporated by reference into this
Form 10-K is included in the exhibit.    

21  
      
    List of principal subsidiaries of Verizon filed herewith.    

23  
      
    Consent of Ernst   Young LLP filed herewith.    

31.1  
      
    Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 filed herewith.    

31.2  
      
    Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 filed herewith.    

32.1  
      
    Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 filed herewith.    

32.2  
      
    Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 filed herewith.    

**  
    Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.            
   23   

Table of Contents  

    Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts        Verizon Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries       For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007
and 2006       

(a)  
    Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts Receivable includes: (1) amounts previously written off which were credited directly to this account when recovered:
and (2) accruals charged to accounts payable for anticipated uncollectible charges on purchases of accounts receivable from others which were billed by us. Also includes amounts transferred from other accounts. The 2006 amounts charged to other
accounts for the allowance for uncollectible accounts receivable and valuation allowance for deferred tax assets were primarily due to the acquisition of MCI.          

(b)  
    Amounts written off as uncollectible or transferred to other accounts or utilized.          

(c)  
    Reductions to valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets.            
   24   

Table of Contents  

Signatures         
    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.       

Verizon Communications Inc.  

By:  
     
  /s/    Thomas A. Bartlett  

Date:  February 24, 2009   

Thomas A. Bartlett             Senior Vice President and Controller   

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.   

Principal Executive Officer:  

/s/    Ivan G. Seidenberg             Ivan G. Seidenberg   
      
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   
     
  February 24, 2009   

Principal Financial Officer:  

/s/    Doreen A. Toben             Doreen A. Toben   
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   
     
  February 24, 2009   

Principal Accounting Officer:  

/s/    Thomas A. Bartlett             Thomas A. Bartlett   
      
    Senior Vice President and Controller   
     
  February 24, 2009   
       
   25   

Table of Contents  

Signatures   Continued         

26   

<EX-12>
 2
 dex12.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

EXHIBIT 12        Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges        Verizon Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries

(1)    
        On January 1, 2007, Verizon adopted Financial Accounting
Standards Board Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (see Notes 1 and 16 of the Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report on Form 10-K). Our policy is to classify interest expense recognized on
uncertain tax positions as income tax expense. We have excluded interest expense recognized on uncertain tax positions from the Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.          

(2)      
    On January 15, 2006, Verizon redeemed $100 million Verizon International Holding Ltd. Series A variable term
voting cumulative preferred stock and paid holders the last dividend on that stock.      

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 3
 dex13.htm
 PORTIONS OF VERIZON'S ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREOWNERS

Portions of Verizon's Annual Report to Shareowners 

EXHIBIT 13        

Selected Financial Data   Verizon Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries            

Significant events affecting our historical earnings trends in 2006 through 2008 are described in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations.          

2005 data includes sales of business, lease impairment, severance, pension and benefit charges and other items.          

2004 data includes sales of business, severance, pension and benefit charges and other items.          

Stock Performance Graph          
      Comparison of Five-Year Total Return Among Verizon,
     S P 500 Telecom Services Index and S P 500 Stock Index     

The graph compares the cumulative total returns of Verizon, the S P 500 Telecommunications
Services Index, and the S P 500 Stock Index over a five-year period, adjusted for the spin-off of our local exchange and related business assets in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont and our domestic print and Internet yellow pages directories
business. It assumes $100 was invested on December 31, 2003, with dividends reinvested.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations          

Overview    
     
      Verizon Communications Inc., (Verizon or the Company)
is one of the world s leading providers of communications services. Our domestic wireless business, operating as Verizon Wireless, provides wireless voice and data products and services across the United States (U.S.) using one of the most
extensive and reliable wireless networks. Our wireline business provides communications services, including voice, broadband data and video services, network access, nationwide long-distance and other communications products and services, and also
owns and operates one of the most expansive end-to-end global Internet Protocol (IP) networks. Stressing diversity and commitment to the communities in which we operate, we have a highly diverse workforce of approximately 223,900 employees.
     In the sections that follow we provide information about the important aspects of our operations and investments, both at the consolidated
and segment levels, and discuss our results of operations, financial position and sources and uses of cash. In addition, we highlight key trends and uncertainties to the extent practicable. The content and organization of the financial and
non-financial data presented in these sections are consistent with information used by our chief operating decision makers for, among other purposes, evaluating performance and allocating resources. We also monitor several key economic indicators as
well as the state of the economy in general, primarily in the United States where the majority of our operations are located, in evaluating our operating results and assessing the potential impacts of these trends on our businesses. While most key
economic indicators, including gross domestic product, affect our operations to some degree, we historically have noted higher correlations to non-farm employment, personal consumption expenditures and capital spending, as well as more general
economic indicators such as inflationary or recessionary trends and housing starts.      Our results of operations, financial position and
sources and uses of cash in the current and future periods reflect our focus on the following strategic imperatives:       Revenue Growth 
  To generate revenue growth we are devoting our resources to higher growth markets such as the wireless voice and data markets, the broadband and video markets, and the provision of strategic services to business markets, rather than to the
traditional wireline voice market. During 2008, revenues from these higher growth markets offset continuing declines in the traditional voice mass market, and we reported consolidated revenue growth of 4.2%. We continue developing and marketing
innovative product bundles to include local, long-distance, wireless and broadband services for consumer and general business retail customers. We anticipate that these efforts will help counter the effects of competition and technology substitution
that have resulted in access line losses, and will enable us to continue to grow consolidated revenues.       Market Share Gains   
In our wireless business, our goal is to be the market leader in providing wireless voice and data communication services in the United States. To gain market share, we are focused on providing the highest network reliability and new and innovative
products and services such as Mobile Broadband and our Evolution-Data Optimized (EV-DO) service. We also continue to expand our wireless data, messaging and multi-media offerings for both consumer and business customers. During 2008,       

our total number of customers increased 9.7% to 72.1 million; and          

average revenue per customer per month (ARPU) from service revenues increased by 1.2% to $51.59 from increased use of our messaging and other data services.
        With our acquisition of Alltel Corporation (Alltel) in January 2009, we became the largest wireless provider in the U.S.
as measured by the total number of customers.      In our wireline business, our goal is to become the leading broadband provider in every
market in which we operate. During 2008,       

we passed 12.7 million premises with our high-capacity fiber optics network operated under the FiOS service mark;          
     
    With FiOS, we have created the opportunity to increase revenue per customer as well as improve retention and profitability as the traditional fixed-line
telephone business continues to decline as customers migrate to wireless, cable and other newer technologies. We are also focused on gaining market share in the enterprise business by the deployment of strategic service offerings   including
expansion of our VoIP and international Ethernet capabilities, the introduction of video and web-based conferencing capabilities, and enhancements to our virtual private network portfolio. In 2008, revenues from strategic services grew 16.1%.
      Profitability Improvement    Our goal is to increase operating income and margins. In 2008,       

income before provision for income taxes, discontinued operations and extraordinary item rose 2.8% compared to 2007; and          
    To position our company for sustainable, long-term profitability, we are directing our capital spending primarily toward higher growth markets. High-speed wireless data services, fiber optics to the premises, as well
as expanded services to enterprise customers, are examples of these growth markets. During 2008, capital expenditures were $17,238 million compared with capital expenditures of $17,538 million in 2007, excluding discontinued operations. We expect
2009 capital expenditures, excluding amounts related to the acquisition of Alltel, to be lower than 2008 capital expenditures.   

Operational Efficiency    While focusing resources on revenue growth and market share gains,
we are continually challenging our management team to lower expenses, particularly through technology-assisted productivity improvements, including self-service initiatives. The effect of these and other efforts, such as real estate consolidations,
call center routing improvements, the formation of a centralized shared services organization, and centralizing information technology and marketing efforts, has led to changes in our cost structure as well as maintaining and improving operating
income margins. With our deployment of the FiOS network, we expect to realize savings annually in our ongoing operating expenses as a result of efficiencies gained from fiber network facilities. As the deployment of the FiOS network gains scale and
installation and automation improvements occur, average costs per home connected are expected to decline.       Customer Service   
Our goal is to be the leading company in customer service in every market we serve. We view superior product offerings and customer service experiences as a competitive differentiator and a catalyst to growing revenues and gaining market share. We
are committed to providing high-quality customer service and continually monitoring customer satisfaction in all facets of our business. We believe that we have the most loyal customer base of any wireless service provider in the United States, as
measured by customer churn.       Performance-Based Culture    We embrace a culture of accountability, based on individual and team
objectives that are performance-based and tied to Verizon s strategic imperatives. Key objectives of our compensation programs are pay-for-performance and the alignment of executives  and shareowners  long-term interests. We also
employ a highly diverse workforce, since respect for diversity is an integral part of Verizon s culture and a critical element of our competitive success.      We create value for our shareowners by investing the cash flows generated by our business in opportunities and transactions that support the aforementioned strategic imperatives, thereby increasing customer
satisfaction and usage of our products and services. In addition, we use our cash flows to repurchase shares and maintain and grow our dividend payout to shareowners. Reflecting continued strong cash flows and confidence in Verizon s business
model, Verizon s Board of Directors increased the Company s quarterly dividend 6.2% during the third quarter of 2007 and 7.0% during the third quarter of 2008. During 2008, we repurchased $1,368 million of our common stock as part of our
previously announced share buyback program. Net cash provided by operating activities   continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 of $26,620 million increased by $311 million from $26,309 million for the year ended
December 31, 2007.   

Consolidated Results of Operations     
      In this section, we discuss our overall results of
operations and highlight items that are not included in our business segment results. We have two reportable segments, which we operate and manage as strategic business units and organize by products and services. Our segments are Domestic Wireless
and Wireline.      This section and the following  Segment Results of Operations  section also highlight and describe those items of
a non-recurring or non-operational nature separately to ensure consistency of presentation. In the following section, we review the performance of our two reportable segments. We exclude the effects of certain items that management does not consider
in assessing segment performance, primarily because of their non-recurring and/or non-operational nature as discussed below and in the  Other Consolidated Results  and  Other Items  sections. We believe that this presentation
will assist readers in better understanding our results of operations and trends from period to period.      On March 31, 2008, we
completed the spin-off of our local exchange and related business assets in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont. Accordingly, Wireline results from divested operations have been reclassified to Corporate and Other and reflect comparable operating
results.       

Consolidated Revenues         
     
    nm   not meaningful       2008 Compared to 2007       Consolidated revenues in 2008 increased by $3,885 million, or 4.2%, compared to 2007. This increase
was primarily the result of continued strong growth at Domestic Wireless.      Domestic Wireless s revenues in 2008 increased by $5,450
million, or 12.4%, compared to 2007 due to increases in service revenues and equipment and other revenue. Service revenues during 2008 increased $4,619 million, or 12.2%, compared to 2007 primarily due to increases in data revenues and customers.
Equipment and other revenue increased principally as a result of increases in the number of existing customers upgrading their wireless devices. Total data revenues increased by $3,265 million, or 44.2% in 2008 compared to 2007. There were
72.1 million total Domestic Wireless customers as of December 31, 2008, an increase of 9.7% from December 31, 2007. Domestic Wireless s retail customer base as of December 31, 2008 was approximately 70 million, a
9.9% increase from 2007, and represented approximately 97.2% of its total customer base. Service ARPU increased by 1.2% to $51.59 in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily attributable to increases in Data ARPU driven by increased use of our messaging and
other data services. Retail Service ARPU increased by 0.6% to $51.88 in 2008 compared to 2007.      Wireline s revenues in 2008 decreased
$915 million, or 1.9%, compared to 2007, primarily driven by lower demand and usage of our basic local exchange and accompanying services, partially offset by continued growth from broadband and strategic services. During 2008, we added 660,000 net
new broadband connections, including 956,000 net new FiOS data connections, offset by a net decline of 296,000 high speed Internet connections. As of December 31, 2008 we served 8,673,000 connections, including 2,481,000 for FiOS Internet,
representing an 8.2% increase in total broadband connections from December 31, 2007. In addition, we added 975,000 net new FiOS TV customers in 2008, for a total of 1,918,000 at December 31, 2008. The revenue growth at Verizon Telecom
driven by broadband and video services was more than offset by a 3,722,000 decline in subscriber access lines resulting from competition and technology substitution, including wireless and VoIP. Revenues at Verizon Business increased primarily due
to higher demand for Internet-related product offerings, specifically Private IP products and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates on services billed in local currencies, partially offset by lower voice revenues.   

2007 Compared to 2006       Consolidated revenues in 2007 increased by $5,287 million, or 6.0%, compared to 2006. This increase was primarily the result of continued strong growth at Domestic Wireless.      Domestic Wireless s revenues in 2007 increased by $5,839 million, or 15.3%, compared to 2006 due to increases in service revenues and equipment and
other revenue. Equipment and other revenue increased principally as a result of increases in the number of existing customers upgrading their wireless devices. Total data revenues increased by $2,911 million, or 65.0% in 2007 compared to 2006 driven
by increased use of our messaging and other data services. There were approximately 65.7 million total Domestic Wireless customers as of December 31, 2007, an increase of 11.3% from December 31, 2006. Domestic Wireless s retail
customer base as of December 31, 2007 was approximately 63.7 million, a 12.2% increase from 2006, and represented approximately 97% of its total customer base. Service ARPU increased by 2.3% to $50.96 in 2007 compared to 2006,
primarily attributable to increases in data revenue per customer. Retail ARPU increased by 2.2% to $51.57 in 2007 compared to 2006.      Wireline s revenues in 2007 decreased $375 million, or 0.8%, compared to 2006, primarily driven by lower demand and usage of our basic local exchange and accompanying services, partially offset by continued growth from broadband and
strategic services. During 2007, we added 1,227,000 new broadband connections, an increase of 18.1%, including 847,000 for FiOS, for a total of 8,013,000 lines at December 31, 2007. In addition, we added 736,000 FiOS TV customers in 2007, for a
total of 943,000 at December 31, 2007. Revenues at Verizon Business increased during 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to higher demand for strategic products. These increases were offset by a decline in voice revenues at Verizon Telecom due
to a 3.5 million decline in subscribers resulting from competition and technology substitution, such as wireless and VoIP, including those subscribers who have migrated to our other service offerings.       

Consolidated Operating Expenses         
     
     2008 Compared to 2007        Cost of Services and Sales       Cost of services and sales includes the following costs directly attributable to a service or
product: salaries and wages, benefits, materials and supplies, contracted services, network access and transport costs, wireless equipment costs, customer provisioning costs, computer systems support, costs to support our outsourcing contracts and
technical facilities and contributions to the universal service fund. Aggregate customer care costs, which include billing and service provisioning, are allocated between cost of services and sales and selling, general and administrative expense.
     Consolidated cost of services and sales in 2008 increased $1,460 million, or 3.9%, compared to 2007, primarily as a result of higher
wireless network costs and wireless equipment costs. The increase was partially offset by the impact of productivity improvement initiatives and lower cost of services and sales driven by a decline in switched access lines in service and wholesale
voice connections. The higher wireless network costs in 2008 were primarily caused by increased network usage for voice and data services, increased roaming, increased use of data services and applications and increased payments related to network
leases. Cost of wireless equipment sales increased in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily as a result of an increase in the number of equipment upgrades by customers, combined with an increase in average cost per unit. The increase in cost of services
and sales was also impacted by unfavorable foreign exchange rates, higher utility costs and the inclusion of the results of operations of a security services firm acquired in July 1, 2007.      Consolidated cost of services and sales in 2008 and 2007 include $24 million and $32 million, respectively, of costs primarily associated with the
integration of MCI into our wireline business. Consolidated cost of services and sales in 2008 also included $16 million related to the spin-off of local exchange and related business assets in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont and $65 million for
severance, pension and benefits charges.   

Selling, General and Administrative Expense       Selling, general and administrative expense includes salaries and wages and benefits not directly attributable to a service or product, bad debt charges, taxes other than income taxes,
advertising and sales commission costs, customer billing, call center and information technology costs, professional service fees and rent for administrative space.      Consolidated selling, general and administrative expense in 2008 increased $931 million, or 3.6%, compared to 2007. The increase resulted from higher sales commission expense, bad debt expense and advertising and
promotion costs, partially offset by lower salary and benefits related expense and the impact of productivity initiatives.      Consolidated
selling, general and administrative expense in 2008 included $885 million for severance, pension and benefits charges (see  Other Items ), $150 million for merger integration costs, primarily comprised of Wireline systems integration
activities related to businesses acquired and $87 million related to the spin-off of local exchange and related business assets in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont.      Consolidated selling, general and administrative expense in 2007 included charges of $772 million for severance and related expenses (see  Other Items ), $146 million for merger integration costs, primarily
comprised of Wireline systems integration activities related to businesses acquired and $84 million related to the spin-off of local exchange and related business assets in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont. In addition, during 2007 we contributed
$100 million of the proceeds from the sale of our investment in Telecomunicaciones de Puerto Rico, Inc. (TELPRI) to the Verizon Foundation.       Depreciation and Amortization Expense       Depreciation and amortization expense in 2008 increased $188 million, or 1.3%,
compared to 2007. The increase was mainly driven by growth in depreciable telephone plant and non-network software from additional capital spending.       2007 Compared to 2006        Cost of Services and Sales       Consolidated cost of services and sales expense in 2007 increased $2,238 million, or 6.3%, compared to 2006, primarily as a result of higher wireless network costs and wireless equipment costs, as well as higher costs
associated with Wireline s growth businesses. The increase was partially offset by the impact of productivity improvement initiatives and decreases in net pension and other postretirement benefit costs.      The higher wireless network costs were caused by increased network usage relating to both voice and data services in 2007 compared to 2006, partially
offset by decreased local interconnection, long distance and roaming rates. Cost of wireless equipment sales increased in 2007 compared to 2006, primarily as a result of an increase in wireless devices sold due to an increase in equipment upgrades.
     Consolidated cost of services and sales expense in 2007 and 2006 included $32 million and $25 million, respectively, of costs associated
with the integration of MCI into our wireline business.       Selling, General and Administrative Expense       Consolidated selling, general and administrative expense in 2007 increased $1,012 million, or 4.1%, compared to 2006. The increase was primarily
attributable to higher salary and benefits expenses. Also contributing to the increase was higher sales commission expense at Domestic Wireless and higher advertising costs at Wireline. Partially offsetting the increases were lower bad debt expenses
and cost reduction initiatives.      Consolidated selling, general and administrative expense in 2007 included charges of $772 million for
severance and related expenses (see  Other Items ), $146 million for merger integration costs, primarily comprised of Wireline systems integration activities related to businesses acquired and $84 million related to the spin-off of local
exchange and related business assets in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont. In addition, during 2007 we contributed $100 million of the proceeds from the sale of our investment in TELPRI to the Verizon Foundation.      Consolidated selling, general and administrative expense in 2006 included $56 million related to pension settlement losses incurred in connection with
our benefit plans and a pretax charge of $369 million for employee severance and severance-related activities in connection with the involuntary separation of approximately 4,100 employees who were separated in 2006. Consolidated selling, general
and administrative expense in 2006 also included $207 million of merger integration costs, primarily for advertising and other costs related to re-branding initiatives and systems integration activities, and a pretax charge of $184 million for
Verizon Center relocation costs.   

Depreciation and Amortization Expense       Depreciation and amortization expense in 2007 decreased $168 million, or 1.2%, compared to 2006. The decrease was primarily due to lower rates of depreciation as a result of changes in the
estimated useful lives of certain asset classes at Wireline and fully amortized customer lists at Domestic Wireless, partially offset by growth in depreciable telephone plant as a result of increased capital expenditures.       

Other Consolidated Results         
     Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Businesses        
    Equity in earnings of unconsolidated businesses in 2008 decreased by $18 million, or 3.1%,
compared to 2007. The decrease was primarily driven by the gain on the sale of an international investment in 2007, partially offset by higher earnings at Vodafone Omnitel N.V. (Vodafone Omnitel) in 2008.      Equity in earnings of unconsolidated businesses in 2007 decreased by $188 million, or 24.3%, compared to 2006. The decrease was primarily driven by the
nationalization of Compa  a An nima Nacional Tel fonos de Venezuela (CANTV) during 2007, as well as the effect of lower tax benefits at Vodafone Omnitel.       Other Income and (Expense), Net        
    Other Income and (Expense), Net in 2008 increased $71 million, or 33.6%, compared to 2007. The
increase was primarily attributable to higher interest income, primarily from our investment in Alltel s debt obligations. Partially offsetting the increase were foreign exchange losses at our international Wireline operations and an impairment
charge of $48 million recorded during the fourth quarter of 2008 related to an other-than-temporary decline in fair value of our investments in certain marketable securities.      Other Income and (Expense), Net in 2007 decreased $184 million, or 46.6%, compared to 2006. The decline was primarily attributable to a gain on the sale of a Wireline investment in 2006, as well
as decreased interest income as a result of lower average cash balances.       Interest Expense        
    Total interest costs in 2008 increased $308 million, compared to 2007, due to an increase in the
weighted-average debt level, partially offset by lower interest rates compared to last year. Interest Expense in 2008 decreased $10 million compared to 2007 primarily due to higher capitalized interest costs. Capitalized interest costs include
approximately $557 million related to the development of wireless licenses for commercial service, primarily as a result of the spectrum acquired in the 700 MHz auction. The increase in weighted-average debt outstanding was primarily driven by the
issuance of $8,000 million of fixed rate notes with varying maturities, in the first half of 2008, and to a lesser extent, the Verizon Wireless borrowings during the second half of 2008 (see  Consolidated Financial Condition ). Partially
offsetting this increase in the weighted average debt outstanding were debt reductions.      Total interest costs in 2007 decreased $553
million, compared to 2006, primarily due to a decrease in average debt levels, partially offset by slightly higher interest rates. Debt levels decreased primarily as a result of the approximately $7,100 million reduction from the spin-off of our
domestic print and Internet yellow pages directories business in November 2006, as well as from debt redemptions and retirements funded by proceeds from the spin-off and the divestiture of our Caribbean and Latin American investments during 2006 and
the first quarter of 2007.   

Minority Interest        
    The effective income tax rate is the provision for income taxes as a percentage of income from
continuing operations before the provision for income taxes. The effective income tax rate in 2008 was lower than 2007 primarily due to recording $610 million of foreign and domestic taxes and expenses in 2007 specifically relating to our share
of Vodafone Omnitel s distributable earnings. Verizon received net distributions from Vodafone Omnitel in April 2008 and December 2007 of approximately $670 million and $2,100 million, respectively.      The effective income tax rate in 2007 compared to 2006 was higher primarily due to taxes recorded in 2007 related to distributions from Vodafone Omnitel
as discussed above. The 2007 rate was also increased due to higher state taxes in 2007 as compared to 2006, as well as greater benefits from foreign operations in 2006 compared to 2007. These increases were partially offset by lower expenses
recorded for unrecognized tax benefits in 2007 as compared to 2006.      A reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to the
effective income tax rate for each period is included in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.       Discontinued Operations       In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets ,
we have classified TELPRI, Verizon Dominicana and our former domestic print and Internet yellow pages directories publishing operations as discontinued operations in the consolidated financial statements for all periods presented through the date of
the divestiture or spin-off.      On March 30, 2007, after receiving Federal Communications Commission (FCC) approval, we completed the
sale of our 52% interest in TELPRI and received gross proceeds of approximately $980 million. The sale resulted in a pretax gain of $120 million ($70 million after-tax, or $.02 per diluted share). Additionally, $100 million of the proceeds were
contributed to the Verizon Foundation.      The sale of Verizon Dominicana closed in December 2006, and primarily due to taxes on previously
unremitted earnings, a pretax gain of $30 million resulted in an after-tax loss of $541 million ($.18 per diluted share).      We completed the
spin-off of our domestic print and Internet yellow pages directories business to our shareowners on November 17, 2006, which resulted in an $8,695 million increase to contributed capital in shareowner s investment. In addition, we recorded
pretax charges of $117 million ($101 million after-tax, or $.03 per diluted share) for costs related to this spin-off. These costs primarily consisted of debt retirement costs, costs associated with accumulated vested benefits of employees,
investment banking fees and other transaction costs related to the spin-off, which are included in discontinued operations.      Income from
discontinued operations, net of tax, decreased by $617 million, or 81.3%, in 2007 compared to 2006. The decrease was primarily driven by the assets disposed of in 2006, partially offset by the after-tax gain recorded in 2007 on the sale of our
investment in TELPRI.       Extraordinary Item       In January 2007, the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela (the Republic) declared its intent to nationalize certain companies, including CANTV. On February 12, 2007, we entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Republic,
which provided that the Republic offer to purchase all of the equity securities of CANTV, including our 28.5% interest, through public tender offers in Venezuela and the United States. Under the terms of the MOU, the prices in the tender offers
would be adjusted downward to reflect any dividends declared and paid subsequent to February 12, 2007. During 2007, the tender offers were completed and Verizon received an aggregate amount of approximately $572 million, which included $476
million from the tender offers as well as $96 million of dividends declared and paid subsequent to the MOU. During 2007, based upon our investment balance in CANTV, we recorded an extraordinary loss of $131 million, including taxes of $38 million,
or $.05 per diluted share.   

Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change       Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payments , utilizing the modified prospective method. The impact to Verizon primarily resulted from Domestic
Wireless, for which we recorded a $42 million ($.01 per diluted share) cumulative effect of accounting change, net of taxes and after minority interest, to recognize the effect of initially measuring the outstanding liability for awards granted to
Domestic Wireless employees at fair value utilizing a Black-Scholes model.       

Segment Results of Operations          
      We have two reportable segments, Domestic Wireless and
Wireline, which we operate and manage as strategic business units and organize by products and services. We previously measured and evaluated our reportable segments based on segment income. Beginning in 2008, we measure and evaluate our reportable
segments based on segment operating income, which is reflected in all periods presented. The use of segment operating income is consistent with the chief operating decision makers  assessment of segment performance. You can find additional
information about our segments in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.      Corporate, eliminations and other includes unallocated
corporate expenses, intersegment eliminations recorded in consolidation, the results of other businesses such as our investments in unconsolidated businesses, lease financing, and other adjustments and gains and losses that are not allocated in
assessing segment performance due to their non-recurring or non-operational nature. Although such transactions are excluded from the business segment results, they are included in reported consolidated earnings. Gains and losses that are not
individually significant are included in all segment results, since these items are included in the chief operating decision makers  assessment of segment performance.       

Domestic Wireless         
    Our Domestic Wireless segment provides wireless voice and data services, other value-added services
and equipment sales across the United States. This segment primarily represents the operations of our joint venture with Vodafone, operating as Verizon Wireless. We own a 55% interest in the joint venture and Vodafone owns the remaining 45%. All
financial results included in the tables below reflect the consolidated results of Verizon Wireless.       Operating Revenue        
    Domestic Wireless s total operating revenue in 2008 increased by $5,450 million, or 12.4%,
compared to 2007. Service revenue increased by $4,619 million, or 12.2%, in 2008 compared to 2007. The increase in service revenue was primarily driven by an increase in data revenue in 2008 compared to 2007, and, to a lesser extent, an increase in
customers as of December 31, 2008 compared to December 31, 2007. Equipment and other revenue increased by $831 million, or 14.2%, in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily as a result of an increase in the number of customers upgrading their
wireless devices. Other revenue also increased due to increases in cost recovery surcharges and regulatory fees.      Total data revenue in
2008 was $10,651 million and accounted for 25.0% of service revenue, compared to $7,386 million and 19.4% of service revenue in 2007. Total data ARPU increased by 30.2% to $12.89 in 2008, compared to $9.90 in 2007, primarily as a result of increased
use of our messaging service, Mobile Broadband and e-mail services, data transport charges, and newer data services such as  VZ Navigator .      Service ARPU increased by 1.2% to $51.59 in 2008, compared to $50.96 in 2007. Retail Service ARPU increased by 0.6% to $51.88 in 2008, compared to $51.57 in 2007.      Domestic Wireless had approximately 70 million retail customers as of December 31, 2008, an increase of 6.3 million, or 9.9%, compared to approximately 63.7 million retail
customers as of December 31, 2007. Retail (non-wholesale) customers are customers who are directly served and managed by Verizon Wireless and who buy its branded services. Domestic Wireless had 72.1 million total customers as of
December 31, 2008, of which 97.2% were retail customers, compared to approximately 65.7 million total customers as of December 31, 2007, of which 97.0% were retail customers. Our Domestic Wireless customer base as of December 31,
2008 was 92.9% retail postpaid, unchanged compared to December 31, 2007. Customer acquisitions and adjustments during 2008 included approximately 650,000, net total customer additions, after conforming adjustments, acquired from Rural Cellular
Corporation (Rural Cellular). As a result of the exchange with AT T consummated on December 22, 2008, Domestic Wireless transferred a net of approximately 122,000 total customers. The total average monthly customer churn rate was 1.25% in 2008,
compared to 1.21% in 2007. The average monthly retail postpaid customer churn rate was 0.96% in 2008, compared to 0.91% in 2007.   

Domestic Wireless s total operating revenue in 2007 increased by $5,839 million, or 15.3%, compared
to 2006. Service revenue in 2007 increased by $5,220 million, or 15.9%, compared to 2006. The service revenue increase was primarily due to an 11.3% increase in customers as of December 31, 2007 compared to December 31, 2006, and increased
average revenue per customer. Equipment and other revenue in 2007 increased by $619 million, or 11.8%, compared to 2006, principally as a result of increases in the number of customers upgrading their wireless devices. Other revenue in 2007 also
increased due to increases in cost recovery surcharges and regulatory fees.      Total data revenue in 2007 was $7,386 million and accounted
for 19.4% of service revenue, compared to $4,475 million and 13.6% of service revenue in 2006. Total data ARPU increased by 45.8% to $9.90 in 2007, compared to $6.79 in 2006, as a result of increased use of messaging service, Broadband Access and
e-mail service s,  and other data services.      Service ARPU increased by 2.3% to $50.96 in 2007 compared to $49.80 in 2006. Retail
Service ARPU increased by 2.2% to $51.57 in 2007 compared to $50.44 in 2006.       Operating Expenses        
     Cost of Services and Sales       Cost of services and sales includes costs to operate the wireless network as well as the cost of roaming and long distance, the cost of data services and applications and the cost of equipment sales. Cost of services
and sales in 2008 increased by $2,204 million, or 16.4%, compared to 2007. The increase in cost of services was driven by higher wireless network costs on increased network usage for voice and data services, increased roaming, increased use of data
services and applications, as well as increased payments related to network related leases. Cost of equipment sales increased by 18.9%, in 2008 compared to 2007. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase in the number of equipment
upgrades by customers combined with an increase in average cost per unit.      Cost of services and sales in 2007 increased by $1,965 million,
or 17.1%, compared to 2006, primarily due to higher wireless network costs in 2007 caused by increased network usage, partially offset by lower rates for long distance, roaming and local interconnection. Cost of equipment sales grew by 20.2% in 2007
compared to 2006. The increase was primarily attributed to an increase in equipment upgrades, together with an increase in cost per unit as a result of increased sales of higher cost advanced wireless devices.       Selling, General and Administrative Expense       Selling,
general and administrative expense in 2008 increased by $796 million, or 5.9%, compared to 2007. This increase was primarily due to an increase in sales commission expense, primarily from an increase in equipment upgrades in our indirect channel, as
well as higher advertising and promotion expense, bad debt expense and regulatory fees. The increases in selling, general and administrative expense were partially offset by a decrease in salary and benefits related expense.      Selling, general and administrative expense in 2007 increased by $1,438 million, or 11.9%, compared to 2006. This increase was primarily due to an
increase in salary and benefits expense, resulting from an increase in employees in the sales and customer care areas, and higher per employee salary and benefit costs.       Depreciation and Amortization Expense       Depreciation and amortization expense in 2008 increased by
$251 million, or 4.9%, compared to 2007 and increased by $241 million, or 4.9%, in 2007 compared to 2006. These increases were primarily due to an increase in depreciable assets. Partially offsetting this increase in 2007 was lower amortization
expense resulting from customer lists becoming fully amortized during 2006.       Operating Income        
    Operating income in 2008 increased by $2,199 million, or 18.6%, compared to 2007 and increased by
$2,195 million, or 22.9%, in 2007 compared to 2006, primarily due to the impact of operating revenue and operating expenses described above.   

Wireline    
    The Wireline segment consists of the operations of Verizon Telecom, which provides communication
services, including voice, broadband video and data, network access, long distance, and other services to residential and small business customers and carriers, and Verizon Business, which provides voice, data and Internet communications services as
well as next-generation IP network services to medium and large business customers, multi-national corporations, and state and federal government customers globally. The results of operations presented below exclude the local exchange and related
businesses in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont that were spun-off on March 31, 2008.       Operating Revenues        
     Verizon Telecom        Mass Markets       Verizon Telecom s Mass Markets revenue includes local exchange (basic service and end-user access),
value-added services, long distance, broadband services for residential and small business accounts and FiOS TV services. Long distance includes both regional toll services and long distance services. Broadband services include high speed Internet
and FiOS Internet.      Our Mass Markets revenue in 2008 decreased by $315 million, or 1.5%, compared to 2007 and decreased by $253 million, or
1.2% in 2007, compared to 2006. These decreases were primarily driven by lower demand and usage of our basic local exchange and accompanying services, attributable to consumer subscriber line losses driven by competition and technology substitution,
including wireless and VoIP. These decreases were partially offset by growth from broadband and video services.      Declines in switched
access lines in service of 9.3% in 2008 and 8.1% in 2007 were mainly driven by the effects of competition and technology substitution. Residential retail access lines declined 11.4% in 2008 and 9.5% in 2007, as customers substituted wireless, VoIP,
broadband and cable services for traditional voice landline services. At the same time, small business retail access lines declined 5.0% in 2008 and 4.0% in 2007, primarily reflecting competition and a shift to high-speed access lines. The resulting
total retail access line loss was 9.1% and 7.6% in 2008 and 2007, respectively.      We added 660,000 net new broadband connections, including
956,000 net new FiOS Internet connections, in 2008. We ended 2008 with 8,673,000 net broadband connections, including 2,481,000 for FiOS Internet, representing an 8.2% increase in total broadband connections compared to 8,013,000 connections at
December 31, 2007. In addition, we added approximately 975,000 FiOS TV customers in 2008 and ended the year with a total of 1,918,000, an increase of approximately 103.4% compared to 943,000 FiOS TV customers at December 31, 2007. As of
December 31, 2008, for FiOS Internet and FiOS TV, we achieved penetration rates of 24.9% and 20.8%, respectively, across all markets where we have been selling these services.       Wholesale       Wholesale revenues are earned from long distance and other carriers who use our local
exchange facilities to provide services to their customers. Switched access revenues are generated from fixed and usage-based charges paid by carriers for access to our local network. Special access revenues are generated from carriers that buy
dedicated local exchange capacity to support their private networks. Wholesale services also include local wholesale revenues from unbundled network elements (UNEs) and interconnection revenues from competitive local exchange carriers (CLECs) and
wireless carriers.      Wholesale revenues in 2008 decreased by $203 million, or 2.6%, compared to 2007 and by $243 million, or 3.0% in 2007
compared to 2006, due to declines in switched access revenues and local wholesale revenues. These declines were partially offset by increases in special access revenues. Switched minutes of use (MOUs) declined in 2008 and 2007, reflecting the impact
of access line loss and wireless substitution. Wholesale lines decreased by 16.0% in 2008 due to the continued impact of competitors deemphasizing their local market initiatives coupled with the impact of technology substitution compared to a 16.1%
decline in 2007. Special access revenue growth reflects continuing demand for high-capacity, high-speed digital services, partially offset by lower demand for older, low-speed data products and services. As of December 31, 2008,  

customer demand, as measured in DS1 and DS3 circuits, for high-capacity and digital data services increased 5.1% compared to an increase of 8.2% in 2007.
     The FCC regulates the rates charged to customers for interstate access services. See  Other Factors That May Affect Future Results
  Regulatory and Competitive Trends   FCC Regulation  for additional information on FCC rulemaking concerning federal access rates, universal service and certain broadband services.       Other Revenues       Other revenues include such services
as operator services (including deaf relay services), public (coin) telephone, card services and supply sales, as well as dial around services including 10-10-987, 10-10-220, 1-800-COLLECT and Prepaid Cards. Verizon Telecom s revenues from
other services decreased by $350 million, or 20.4% in 2008, and by $483 million, or 22.0% in 2007, mainly due to the discontinuation of non-strategic product lines and reduced business volumes.       Verizon Business        Enterprise Business       Our Enterprise Business channel offers voice, data and Internet communications services to medium and large business customers, multi-national
corporations, and state and federal government customers. In addition to traditional voice and data services, Enterprise Business offers managed and advanced products and solutions through our Strategic Services. This encompasses our focus areas of
growth, including IP services and value-added solutions that make communications more secure, reliable and efficient. Enterprise Business also provides managed network services for customers that outsource all or portions of their communications and
information processing operations and data services such as Private IP, Private Line, Frame Relay and ATM services, both domestically and internationally. In addition, Enterprise Business offers professional services in more than 30 countries around
the world, supporting a range of solutions including network service, managing a move to IP-based unified communications and providing application performance support.      Enterprise Business revenues in 2008 decreased by $139 million, or 1.0%, compared to 2007. The revenue decline is due to certain customers moving traffic off of our network, partially offset by increases in customer
premise equipment revenue and security solutions revenue. The IP and services suite of products continues to be Enterprise Business  fastest growing and includes Private IP, IP, VPN, Managed Services, Web Hosting and VoIP. Enterprise Business
revenues in 2007 increased by $386 million, or 2.7%, compared to 2006, primarily reflecting growth in demand for our strategic products, specifically IP services, Managed Services and security, as well as the inclusion of the results of operations
of the former MCI business subsequent to the close of the merger on January 6, 2006.       Wholesale       Our Wholesale revenues relate to domestic wholesale services and include all interexchange wholesale traffic sold in the United States, as well as
internationally destined traffic that originates in the United States. The Wholesale line of business is comprised of numerous large and small customers that predominately resell voice services to their own customer base. A portion of this revenue
is generated by a few large telecommunication carriers, many of whom compete directly with Verizon.      Verizon Business Wholesale revenues in
2008 decreased by $4 million, or 0.1%, compared to 2007, primarily due to continued rate compression due to competition in the marketplace partially offset by increased MOUs in traditional voice products. Verizon Business Wholesale revenues in 2007
increased by $64 million, or 2.0% as compared to 2006, primarily due to increased MOUs in traditional voice products, partially offset by continued rate compression due to competition in the marketplace, as well as the inclusion of the results of
operations of the former MCI business subsequent to the close of the merger on January 6, 2006.       International and Other       Our International operations serve retail and wholesale customers, including enterprise businesses, government entities and telecommunication carriers
outside of the United States, primarily in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, the Asia Pacific region, Latin America and Canada. These operations provide telecommunications services, which include voice, data services, Internet and managed network
services.      International and Other revenues in 2008 increased by $160 million, or 5.0%, compared to 2007, reflecting strong growth in our
Internet suite of products, specifically Private IP products, and the impact of favorable foreign currency exchange rates on services billed in local currencies. International and Other revenue in 2007 increased by $113 million, or 3.6%, compared to
2006 as a result of higher revenue growth in our strategic products, specifically IP services. This increase was partially offset by competitive rate compression and lower volumes with respect to our voice products.   

Operating Expenses        
     Cost of Services and Sales       Cost of services and sales includes costs directly attributable to a service or product, including salaries and wages, benefits, materials and supplies, contracted services, network access and transport costs,
customer provisioning costs, computer systems support, costs to support our outsourcing contracts and technical facilities, contributions to the universal service fund, and cost of products sold. Aggregate customer care costs, which include billing
and service provisioning, are allocated between cost of services and sales and selling, general and administrative expense.      Cost of
services and sales in 2008 increased by $93 million, or 0.4%, compared to 2007. These increases were primarily due to higher costs associated with our growth businesses, primarily FiOS services, including TV and Internet services, and IP services,
partially offset by productivity improvement initiatives, headcount reductions and lower switched access lines in service as well as lower wholesale voice connections. The increase in cost of services and sales expense was also impacted by
unfavorable foreign exchange rate changes, higher utility costs and the inclusion of the results of operations of a security services firm acquired on July 1, 2007.      Cost of services and sales in 2007 increased by $375 million, or 1.6%, compared to 2006. This increase was primarily due to higher costs associated with our growth businesses, annual wage increases and higher customer
premise equipment costs, partially offset by productivity improvement initiatives, headcount reductions and lower switched access lines in service, as well as lower wholesale voice connections.       Selling, General and Administrative Expense       Selling,
general and administrative expense includes salaries, wages and benefits not directly attributable to a service or product, bad debt charges, taxes other than income, advertising and sales commission costs, customer billing, call center and
information technology costs, professional service fees and rent for administrative space.      Selling, general and administrative expenses in
2008 decreased by $480 million or 4.2%, compared to 2007. This decrease was primarily due to declines in compensation expense, in part driven by headcount reductions, cost reduction initiatives and lower bad debt costs, partially offset by the
inclusion of the results of operations of a security services firm acquired on July 1, 2007.      Selling, general and administrative
expenses in 2007 decreased by $471 million or 3.9%, compared to 2006. The decrease was primarily due to headcount reductions, cost reduction initiatives, as well as the impact of gains from real estate sales and lower bad debt costs, partially
offset by higher advertising costs and the inclusion of the results of operations of the former MCI business subsequent to the close of the merger on January 6, 2006.       Depreciation and Amortization Expense       Depreciation and amortization expense in 2008 increased $104
million, or 1.2%, compared to 2007, mainly driven by growth in depreciable telephone plant and non-network software from additional capital spending, partially offset by lower rates of depreciation as a result of changes in the estimated useful
lives of certain asset classes. Depreciation and amortization expense in 2007 decreased $382 million, or 4.1%, compared to 2006, mainly driven by lower rates of depreciation as a result of changes in the estimated useful lives of certain asset
classes, partially offset by growth in depreciable telephone plant from increased capital spending.       Operating Income        
    Segment operating income in 2008 decreased by $632 million, or 14.1%, compared to 2007 and
increased by $103 million, or 2.3% in 2007 compared to 2006, due to the impact of operating revenues and operating expenses described above. Non-recurring or non-operational items not included in Verizon Wireline s segment income totaled $993
million, $726 million and $458 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.      Non-recurring or non-operational items in 2008 primarily
included severance and severance-related costs, pension settlement losses, costs associated with continued merger integration initiatives, the results of operations spun-off during the first quarter of 2008 and the costs incurred in connection with
the spin-off related to network, non-network software, and other activities (see  Recent Developments ).   

Non-recurring or non-operational items in 2007 included costs associated with severance and other related
charges, costs incurred related to network, non-network software, and other activities in connection with the spin-off of local exchange assets in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont, as well as costs associated with merger integration initiatives,
principally related to the acquisition of MCI and other items.      Non-recurring or non-operational items in 2006 included costs associated
with severance activity, pension settlement losses, Verizon Center relocation-related costs and merger integration costs. Merger integration costs primarily included costs related to advertising and re-branding initiatives, facility exit costs,
severance costs, labor and contractor costs related to information technology integration initiatives and employee retention expenses.       

Other Items     

Facility and Employee-Related Items    
    During 2008, we recorded net pretax severance, pension and benefits charges of $950 million ($588
million after-tax, or $.21 per diluted share). This charge primarily included $586 million ($363 million after-tax) for workforce reductions in connection with the separation of approximately 8,600 employees and related charges; 3,500 of whom were
separated in the second half of 2008, with the remaining reductions expected to occur in 2009, in accordance with SFAS No. 112,  Employers  Accounting for Postemployment Benefits . Also included are net pretax pension settlement
losses of $364 million ($225 million after-tax) related to employees that received lump-sum distributions primarily resulting from our separation plans. These charges were recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 88,  Employers  Accounting
for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefit s (SFAS No. 88), which requires that settlement losses be recorded once prescribed payment thresholds have been reached.      During the fourth quarter of 2007, we recorded charges of $772 million ($477 million after-tax, or $.16 per diluted share) primarily in connection with
workforce reductions of 9,000 employees and related charges, 4,000 of whom were separated in the fourth quarter of 2007 with the remaining reductions occurring throughout 2008. In addition, we adjusted our actuarial assumptions for severance to
align with future expectations.      During 2006, we recorded net pretax severance, pension and benefits charges of $425 million ($258 million
after-tax, or $.09 per diluted share). These charges included net pretax pension settlement losses of $56 million ($26 million after-tax) related to employees that received lump-sum distributions primarily resulting from our separation plans. These
charges were recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 88. Also included are pretax charges of $369 million ($228 million after-tax), for employee severance and severance-related costs in connection with the involuntary separation of approximately
4,100 employees.      During 2006, we recorded pretax charges of $184 million ($118 million after-tax, or $.04 per diluted share) in connection
with the relocation of employees and business operations to Verizon Center in Basking Ridge, New Jersey.       

Merger Integration Costs    
    In 2008, 2007, and 2006 ,  we recorded pretax charges of $172 million ($107 million after-tax,
or $.03 per diluted share), $178 million ($112 million after-tax, or $.04 per diluted share) and $232 million ($146 million after-tax, or $.05 per diluted share), respectively, primarily related to the MCI acquisition that were comprised mainly of
systems integration activities.       

Telephone Access Lines Spin-off    
    In 2008 and 2007, we recorded pretax charges of $103 million ($81 million after-tax, or $.03 per
diluted share) and $84 million ($80 million after-tax, or $.03 per diluted share), respectively, for costs incurred related to network, non-network software, and other activities to enable the operations in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont to
operate on a stand-alone basis subsequent to the spin-off of our telephone access line operations in those states, as well as professional advisory and legal fees in connection with this transaction.       

Investment Impairment Charges    
    During 2008, we recorded a pretax charge of $48 million ($31 million after-tax, or $.01 per diluted
share) related to an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value of our investments in certain marketable securities.       

International Taxes    
    In December 2007, Verizon received a net distribution from Vodafone Omnitel of approximately $2,100
million and received an additional $670 million net distribution in April 2008. During 2007, we recorded $610 million ($.21 per diluted share) of foreign and domestic taxes and expenses specifically relating to our share of Vodafone Omnitel s
distributable earnings.   

Other    
    In 2006, we recorded pretax charges of $26 million ($16 million after-tax, or $.01 per diluted
share) resulting from the extinguishment of debt assumed in connection with the MCI merger.       

Consolidated Financial Condition     
     
    We use the net cash generated from our operations to fund network expansion and modernization,
repay external financing, pay dividends, purchase Verizon common stock for treasury and invest in new businesses. Additional external financing is obtained when necessary. While our current liabilities typically exceed current assets, our sources of
funds, primarily from operations and, to the extent necessary, from readily available external financing arrangements, are sufficient to meet ongoing operating and investing requirements. We expect that capital spending requirements will continue to
be financed primarily through internally generated funds. Additional debt or equity financing may be needed to fund additional development activities or to maintain our capital structure to ensure our financial flexibility.      Although conditions in the credit markets through December 31, 2008 did not have a significant impact on our ability to obtain financing, such
conditions resulted in higher fixed interest rates on borrowings than those we have paid in recent years. The recent disruption in the global financial markets has also affected some of the financial institutions with which we do business. A
continuing sustained decline in the stability of financial institutions could affect our access to financing. We completed $21.9 billion of new financing in 2008, including the issuance of $9.2 billion of new notes during the fourth quarter of 2008.
As of December 31, 2008, more than two-thirds in aggregate principal amount of our total debt portfolio consisted of fixed rate indebtedness (including the effect of all interest rate swap agreements on our debt
portfolio). Furthermore, we have had, and continue to have, access to the commercial paper markets, although we were required during a brief period of time in the third quarter of 2008 to pay interest rates on our commercial paper that were
significantly higher than the rates we have paid in recent years. If the national or global economy or credit market conditions in general were to deteriorate further, it is possible that such changes could adversely affect our cash flows
through increased interest costs or our ability to obtain external financing or to refinance our existing indebtedness.       

Cash Flows Provided By (Used In) Operating Activities    
    Our primary source of funds continues to be cash generated from operations. Net cash provided by
operating activities   continuing operations in 2008 increased $0.3 billion, compared to 2007, primarily due to higher earnings, partially offset by lower dividends received from Vodafone Omnitel. The increase in Net cash provided by operating
activities   continuing operations in 2007, compared to 2006, was primarily due to the distributions from Vodafone Omnitel and CANTV, increased operating cash flows from Domestic Wireless and lower interest payments on outstanding debt,
partially offset by changes in working capital.      The net changes in cash flow from operating activities   discontinued operations for
the periods presented were primarily due to income taxes paid in 2007 related to the fourth quarter 2006 disposition of Verizon Dominicana, as well as the disposal of the discontinued operations in the fourth quarter of 2006.   

Cash Flows Provided By (Used In) Investing Activities         
    Capital expenditures continue to be our primary use of cash flows from operations, as they
facilitate the introduction of new products and services, enhance responsiveness to competitive challenges and increase the operating efficiency and productivity of our networks. Capital spending at Domestic Wireless represents our continuing effort
to invest in this high growth business. We invested $6.5 billion in our Domestic Wireless business in 2008, compared to $6.5 billion and $6.6 billion in 2007 and 2006, respectively. We invested $9.8 billion in our Wireline business in 2008, compared
to $11.0 billion and $10.3 billion in 2007 and 2006, respectively.      In 2008, we invested $15.9 billion in acquisitions and investments in
businesses and wireless licenses. We invested $9.4 billion to acquire twenty-five 12 MHz licenses in the A block, seventy-seven 12 MHz licenses in the B Block and seven 22 MHz (nationwide, except Alaska) licenses in the C block resulting from
participation in the FCC s Auction 73. On August 7, 2008, Verizon Wireless completed its acquisition of Rural Cellular for cash consideration of $0.9 billion, net of cash acquired after an exchange transaction with another carrier to
complete the required divestiture of certain markets. In connection with the Alltel transaction, Verizon Wireless purchased from third parties approximately $5.0 billion aggregate principal amount of debt obligations of certain subsidiaries of
Alltel for approximately $4.8 billion plus accrued and unpaid interest. On January 9, 2009, Verizon Wireless paid approximately $5.9 billion for the equity of Alltel (see  Recent Developments ). In 2007, we paid $0.4 billion, net of
cash received, to acquire a network security business and $0.2 billion to purchase several wireless properties and licenses. In 2006, we invested $1.4 billion in acquisitions and investments in businesses, including $2.8 billion to acquire thirteen
20 MHz licenses in connection with the FCC Advanced Wireless Services auction, as well as the acquisition of other wireless properties. This was offset by MCI s cash balances of $2.4 billion we acquired at the date of the merger.      Our short-term investments include cash equivalents held in trust accounts for payment of employee benefits. In 2008, we decreased our annual trust
funding to $0.1 billion, which is included in Short-term investments in the consolidated balance sheets. In 2007 and 2006, we invested $1.7 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively, in short-term investments, primarily to pre-fund active
employees  health and welfare benefits. Proceeds from the sales of all short-term investments, principally for the payment of these benefits, were $1.8 billion, $1.9 billion and $2.2 billion in the years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
     Other, net investing activities in 2008 primarily include cash proceeds of $0.3 billion from the sale of properties and sale of select
non-strategic assets, a cash payment of $0.2 billion in connection with the settlement of foreign currency forward contracts and $0.1 billion receivable from a money market fund managed by a third party, which is in the process of being liquidated
and returned to Verizon. Other, net investing activities in 2007 primarily included cash proceeds of $0.8 billion from property sales and sales of select non-strategic assets, as well as $0.5 billion from the disposition of our interest in CANTV.
Other, net investing activities in 2006 primarily included cash proceeds of $0.3 billion from property sales.      In 2007, investing
activities of discontinued operations primarily included gross proceeds of approximately $1.0 billion in connection with the sale of our investment in TELPRI. In 2006, investing activities of discontinued operations included net pretax cash proceeds
of $2.0 billion in connection with the sale of Verizon Dominicana.       

Cash Flows Provided By (Used In) Financing Activities         
    During 2008, net cash provided by financing activities was $13.6 billion, compared with the net
cash used in financing activities of $11.7 billion in 2007. Proceeds from borrowings during 2008 were approximately $24.0 billion. Cash flow used in financing activities primarily included net debt repayments of $4.1 billion, dividend payments of
$5.0 billion, and purchases of Verizon common stock for treasury of $1.4 billion.      Our total debt increased by $20.8 billion in 2008.
Verizon Communications issued $11.5 billion of fixed rate debt with varying maturities. Domestic Wireless issued $10.4 billion of debt for the purchase of Alltel s debt obligations acquired in the second quarter, the purchase of Rural Cellular
and subsequent repayment of Rural Cellular debt, and to raise cash to finance a portion of the purchase price of the Alltel acquisition which closed on January 9, 2009. Partially offsetting the increase in total debt, including an increase in
commercial paper outstanding, was the repayment of $4.1 billion of term debt.      In November 2008, Verizon issued $2.0 billion of 8.75% notes
due 2018 and $1.3 billion of 8.95% notes due 2039, which resulted in cash proceeds of $3.2 billion net of discount and issuance costs. In April 2008, Verizon issued $1.3 billion of 5.25% notes due 2013, $1.5 billion of 6.10% notes due 2018, and $1.3
billion of 6.90% notes due 2038, resulting in cash proceeds of $4.0 billion, net of discounts and issuance costs. In February 2008, Verizon issued $0.8 billion of 4.35% notes due 2013, $1.5 billion of 5.50% notes due 2018, and $1.8 billion of 6.40%
notes due 2038, resulting in cash proceeds of $4.0 billion, net of discounts and issuance costs. In January 2008, Verizon utilized a $0.2 billion fixed rate vendor financing facility due 2010.   

Verizon Wireless s financing activities included:       

On December 19, 2008, Verizon Wireless and Verizon Wireless Capital LLC as the borrowers, entered into a $17.0 billion credit facility (Bridge Facility) in
order to complete the acquisition of Alltel and repay certain of Alltel s outstanding debt. On December 31, 2008, the Bridge Facility was reduced to $12.5 billion. On January 9, 2009, Verizon Wireless borrowed $12.4 billion under the
Bridge Facility and the unused commitments under the Bridge Facility were terminated. The Bridge Facility has a maturity date of January 8, 2010. Interest on borrowings under the Bridge Facility is calculated based on the London Interbank
Offered Rate (LIBOR) for the applicable period, the level of borrowings on specified dates and a margin that is determined by reference to our long-term credit rating issued by Standard and Poor s Rating Service (S P). If the aggregate
outstanding principal amount under the Bridge Facility is greater than $6.0 billion on July 8, 2009 (the 180th day after the closing date of the Alltel acquisition), we are required to repay $3.0 billion on that date (less the amount of
specified mandatory or optional prepayments that have been made as of that date). The remaining aggregate outstanding principal amount must be repaid on the maturity date. We expect to refinance or repay the borrowings under the Bridge Facility
within the next 12 months by utilizing a combination of internally generated free cash flows, net proceeds from the required disposition of assets in connection with the Alltel acquisition and new borrowings.          

In December 2008, Verizon Wireless obtained net proceeds of $2.4 billion from the issuance of  0.7 billion of 7.625% notes due 2011,  0.5 billion of
8.750% notes due 2015 and  0.6 billion of 8.875% notes due 2018. Concurrent with the borrowings, Verizon Wireless entered into cross currency swaps primarily to exchange the proceeds from British Pound Sterling and Euros into U.S. dollars
and fix its future interest and principal payments in U.S. dollars. As a result of these swaps, Verizon Wireless exchanged the aggregate principal amounts for cash proceeds of $2.4 billion, which were used to finance a portion of the purchase price
of the Alltel acquisition on January 9, 2009.          

On September 30, 2008, Verizon Wireless and Verizon Wireless Capital LLC entered into a $4.4 billion Three-Year Term Loan Facility Agreement (Three-Year
Term Facility) with Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, with a maturity date of September 30, 2011. Verizon Wireless borrowed $4.4 billion under the Three-Year Term Facility in order to repay a portion of the 364-Day Credit Agreement as
described below. Of the $4.4 billion, $0.4 billion must be repaid at the end of the first year, $2.0 billion at the end of the second year, and $2.0 billion upon final maturity. Interest on borrowings under the Three-Year Term Facility is
calculated based on the LIBOR rate for the applicable period and a margin that is determined by reference to the long-term credit rating of Verizon Wireless issued by S P and Moody s Investors Service (if Moody s subsequently
determines to provide a credit rating for the Three-Year Term Facility). Borrowings under the Three-Year Term Facility currently bear interest at a variable rate based on LIBOR plus 100 basis points. The Three-Year Term Facility includes a
requirement to maintain a certain leverage ratio.          

On June 5, 2008, Verizon Wireless entered into a $7.6 billion 364-Day Credit Agreement with Morgan Stanley Senior Funding Inc. as Administrative Agent,
which included a $4.8 billion term facility and a $2.8 billion delayed draw facility. On June 10, 2008, Verizon Wireless borrowed $4.8 million under the 364-Day Credit Agreement in order to purchase the Alltel debt obligations acquired in the
second quarter and, during the third quarter, borrowed $2.8 billion under the delayed draw facility to complete the purchase of Rural Cellular and to repay Rural Cellular s debt and pay fees and expenses incurred in connection therewith. During
2008, $4.4 billion of the 364-Day Credit Agreement was repaid using proceeds from the Three-Year Term Loan Facility; the remainder of the borrowings under the 364-Day Credit Agreement was also repaid during 2008.          

On February 4, 2009, Verizon Wireless and Verizon Wireless Capital LLC co-issued in a private placement $3.5 billion of 5.55% notes due 2014 and $0.8
billion of 5.25% notes due 2012, resulting in cash proceeds of $4.2 billion, net of discounts and issuance costs. Verizon Wireless will use the net proceeds from the sale of these notes to repay a portion of the borrowings outstanding under the
Bridge Facility described above.         As of December 31, 2008, we had current assets of $26.1 billion, including cash
and cash equivalents of $9.8 billion and short-term investments of $0.5 billion. Our current liabilities of $25.9 billion included debt maturing within one year of $5.0 billion.      Historically, we fund our operations primarily with cash from operations, cash on hand, and access to the commercial paper markets. However, if the economic conditions should worsen or we do not
maintain our cash flows from operations, we could see a negative impact on our liquidity in 2009. We believe we can meet our debt service requirements in the next twelve months as we expect to continue to generate free cash flow and maintain access
to the commercial paper markets.      As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $5.6 billion of unused bank lines of credit consisting
of a three-year committed facility that expires in September 2009. We also entered into a vendor provided credit facility that provided $0.2 billion of financing capacity. We have a shelf registration available for the issuance of up to $6.8 billion
of additional unsecured debt or equity securities.      In addition to the repayments of the $7.6 billion 364-Day Credit Agreement, we made
other debt repayments of approximately $4.1 billion in 2008, including $0.2 billion of 5.55% notes issued by Verizon Northwest Inc., $0.1 billion of 6.0% notes issued by Verizon South  

Inc., $0.3 billion of 6.0% notes issued by Verizon New York, $0.1 billion of 7.0% notes issued by Verizon California Inc., $0.3 billion of 6.9% notes issued
by Verizon North Inc., $0.3 billion of 5.65% notes issued by Verizon North Inc., and $3.0 billion of other corporate borrowings, which included the repayment of Rural Cellular s debt and $1.0 billion of Verizon Communications 4.0% notes. As a
result of the spin-off of our local exchange business and related activities in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont, in March 2008, our net debt was reduced by approximately $1.4 billion.      Our total debt was reduced by $5.2 billion in 2007. We repaid approximately $1.7 billion of Wireline debt, including the early repayment of previously guaranteed $0.3 billion 7.0% debentures
issued by Verizon South Inc. and $0.5 billion 7.0% debentures issued by Verizon New England Inc., as well as approximately $1.6 billion of other borrowings. Also, we redeemed $1.6 billion principal of our outstanding floating rate notes, which were
called on January 8, 2007, and the $0.5 billion 7.9% debentures issued by GTE Corporation. Partially offsetting the reduction in total debt were cash proceeds of $3.4 billion in connection with fixed and floating rate debt issued during 2007.
     Cash of $1.9 billion was used to reduce our debt in 2006. We repaid $6.8 billion of Wireline debt, including premiums associated with the
retirement of $5.7 billion of aggregate principal amount of long-term debt assumed in connection with the MCI merger. The Wireline repayments also included the early retirement/prepayment of $0.7 billion of long-term debt and $0.2 billion of other
long-term debt at maturity. We repaid approximately $2.5 billion of Domestic Wireless 5.375% fixed rate notes that matured on December 15, 2006. Also, we redeemed the $1.4 billion accreted principal of our remaining zero-coupon convertible
notes and retired $0.5 billion of other corporate long-term debt at maturity. These repayments were partially offset by our issuance of long-term debt resulting in cash proceeds of approximately $4.0 billion, net of discounts, issuance costs and the
receipt of cash proceeds related to hedges on the interest rate of an anticipated financing. In connection with the spin-off of our domestic print and Internet yellow pages directories business, we received net cash proceeds of approximately $2.0
billion and retired debt in the aggregate principal amount of approximately $7.1 billion.      Our ratio of debt to debt combined with
shareowners  equity was 55.5% at December 31, 2008 compared to 38.1% at December 31, 2007.      The amount of cash that we need
to service our debt substantially increased with the acquisition of Alltel. Our ability to make payments on our debt will depend largely upon our cash balances and future operating performance. While we anticipate the challenging credit environment
to continue in 2009, we do not expect this to have a material impact on our ability to obtain financing due to our investment grade ratings which we expect to maintain. The debt securities of Verizon Communications and its subsidiaries continue to
be accorded high ratings by the three primary rating agencies.      S P assigns an  A  Corporate Credit Rating and an
 A-1  short-term debt rating to Verizon Communications. In early June 2008 S P revised its outlook on Verizon s ratings to negative from stable following the announcement of the agreement to acquire Alltel. At the same time,
S P affirmed all Verizon s ratings, including its  A  Corporate Credit Rating,  A-1  short-term rating and the  A  Corporate Credit Rating on Cellco Partnership (d/b/a Verizon Wireless). In November 2008
S P affirmed the  A  Corporate Credit Rating with a negative outlook on Cellco Partnership and Verizon Communications.      Moody s Investors Service (Moody s) assigns an  A3  long-term debt rating and a  P-2  short-term debt rating to Verizon Communications. In June 2008 Moody s placed Verizon on  Review for Possible
Downgrade  following the announcement of the agreement to acquire Alltel. In October 2008 Moody s concluded its review and revised the outlook on Verizon Communication s ratings from stable to negative. The  P-2  short-term
rating was affirmed. In November 2008 Moody s initiated a Cellco Partnership (d/b/a Verizon Wireless) long-term debt rating of  A2  with a negative outlook.      Fitch Ratings (Fitch) assigns an  A  long-term Issuer Default Rating and an  F1  short-term rating with stable outlook to Verizon Communications. In June 2008 Fitch placed
Verizon Communications on  Rating Watch Negative  following the announcement of the Alltel acquisition. In November 2008 Fitch downgraded the long-term debt rating of Verizon to  A  from  A+  with a stable outlook,
affirmed the  F1  short-term rating and removed Verizon s ratings from  Rating Watch Negative . In that same action, Fitch initiated a Cellco Partnership (d/b/a Verizon Wireless) rating at  A  with a stable
outlook.      While we do not anticipate a ratings downgrade, the three primary rating agencies have identified factors which they believe
could result in a ratings downgrade for Verizon Communications and/or Cellco Partnership in the future including sustained leverage levels at Verizon Communications and/or Cellco Partnership resulting from: (i) diminished wireless operating
performance as a result of a weakening economy and competitive pressures; (ii) failure to achieve significant synergies in the Alltel integration; (iii) accelerated wireline losses; or (iv) a material acquisition or sale of operations
that causes a material deterioration in its credit metrics. A ratings downgrade would increase the cost of refinancing existing debt and might constrain Verizon Communications  access to certain short-term debt markets.      Both the Verizon Wireless Three-Year Term Credit Facility and $12.5 billion Bridge Facility contain covenants including a Leverage Ratio of 3.25:1 as
defined in the agreement. Each also contains events of default that are customary for companies maintaining an investment grade credit rating. As of December 31, 2008, we and our consolidated subsidiaries were in compliance with all of our debt
covenants.      Common stock has been used from time to time to satisfy some of the funding requirements of employee and shareowner plans. On
February 7, 2008, the Board of Directors replaced the current share buy back program with a new program for the repurchase of up to 100 million common shares terminating no later than the close of business on February 28, 2011. The
Board also determined that no additional shares were to be purchased under the prior program. We repurchased $1.4 billion, $2.8 billion and $1.7 billion of our common stock during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

As in prior periods, dividend payments were a significant use of cash flows from operations in 2008. We
determine the appropriateness of the level of our dividend payments on a periodic basis by considering such factors as long-term growth opportunities, internal cash requirements and the expectations of our shareowners. During the third quarter of
2008, Verizon s Board of Directors increased the Company s quarterly dividend payments 7.0% to $.460 per share from $.430 per share in 2007, with a goal of moving to an annual dividend increase model. In the third quarter of 2007, we
increased our dividend payments 6.2% to $.430 per share from $.405 per share in the first two quarters of 2007.       

Increase (Decrease) In Cash and Cash Equivalents         
    Our Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2008 totaled $9.8 billion, an $8.6 billion
increase compared to Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2007. Our Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2007 totaled $1.2 billion, a $2.1 billion decrease compared to Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2006.

Employee Benefit Plan Funded Status and Contributions         
    We operate numerous qualified and nonqualified pension plans and other postretirement benefit
plans. These plans primarily relate to our domestic business units. We contributed $332 million, $612 million and $451 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, to our qualified pension plans. We also contributed $155 million, $125 million and
$117 million to our nonqualified pension plans in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.      Based on the funded status of the plans at
December 31, 2008, we anticipate making qualified pension trust contributions of $300 million in 2009. Our estimate of required qualified pension trust contributions for 2010 is approximately $800 million. The estimated contribution in 2010 is
based on a range of $600 million to $900 million which depends primarily upon asset returns and interest rates in 2009. Nonqualified pension contributions are estimated to be approximately $120 million for 2009 and $130 million for 2010,
respectively.      Contributions to our other postretirement benefit plans generally relate to payments for benefits on an as-incurred basis
since the other postretirement benefit plans do not have funding requirements similar to the pension plans. We contributed $1,227 million, $1,048 million and $1,099 million to our other postretirement benefit plans in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. Contributions to our other postretirement benefit plans are estimated to be approximately $1,770 million in 2009 and $1,890 million in 2010.      Refer to Note 1 in the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the adoption of SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans   an
amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R),  which was effective December 31, 2006.       

Leasing Arrangements         
    We are the lessor in leveraged and direct financing lease agreements for commercial aircraft and
power generating facilities, which comprise the majority of the portfolio along with telecommunications equipment, real estate property, and other equipment. These leases have remaining terms up to 42 years as of December 31, 2008. Minimum
lease payments receivable represent unpaid rentals, less principal and interest on third-party nonrecourse debt relating to leveraged lease transactions. Since we have no general liability for this debt, which holds a senior security interest in the
leased equipment and rentals, the related principal and interest have been offset against the minimum lease payments receivable in accordance with GAAP. All recourse debt is reflected in our consolidated balance sheets.   

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations         
     Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments       The following table provides a summary of our contractual obligations and commercial commitments at December 31, 2008. Additional detail about these items is included in the notes to the
consolidated financial statements.       

(1)    
        Long-term debt includes a $4,440 million Three-Year Term
Facility Agreement which currently bears interest based on LIBOR plus 100 basis points (see Note 10).          

(2)    
        Income tax audit settlements includes gross unrecognized tax
benefits of $40 million as determined under Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (FIN 48) and related gross interest of $57 million. We are not able to make a
reliable estimate of when the balance of $2,582 million of unrecognized tax benefits and related interest and penalties will be settled with the respective taxing authorities until issues or examinations are further developed (see Note 16).

Guarantees         
    In connection with the execution of agreements for the sale of businesses and investments, Verizon
ordinarily provides representations and warranties to the purchasers pertaining to a variety of nonfinancial matters, such as ownership of the securities being sold, as well as financial losses.      As of December 31, 2008, letters of credit totaling approximately $200 million were executed in the normal course of business, which support several
financing arrangements and payment obligations to third parties.   

Market Risk          
      We are exposed to various types of market risk in the
normal course of business, including the impact of interest rate changes, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, changes in equity investment and commodity prices and changes in corporate tax rates. We employ risk management strategies which
may include the use of a variety of derivatives, including cross currency swaps, foreign currency forwards and collars, equity options, interest rate and commodity swap agreements and interest rate locks. We do not hold derivatives for trading
purposes.      It is our general policy to enter into interest rate, foreign currency and other derivative transactions only to the extent
necessary to achieve our desired objectives in limiting our exposure to the various market risks. Our objectives include maintaining a mix of fixed and variable rate debt to lower borrowing costs within reasonable risk parameters and to protect
against earnings and cash flow volatility resulting from changes in market conditions. We do not hedge our market risk exposure in a manner that would completely eliminate the effect of changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates on our
earnings. We do not expect that our net income, liquidity and cash flows will be materially affected by these risk management strategies.       

Interest Rate Risk         
    The table that follows summarizes the fair values of our long-term debt and interest rate and cross
currency swap derivatives as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. The table also provides a sensitivity analysis of the estimated fair values of these financial instruments assuming 100-basis-point upward and downward shifts in the yield curve. Our
sensitivity analysis does not include the fair values of our commercial paper and bank loans, if any, because they are not significantly affected by changes in market interest rates.       
     Alltel Interest Rate Swaps       In connection with the Alltel acquisition (see  Recent Developments ), Verizon Wireless acquired seven interest rate swap agreements with a notional value of $9.5 billion that pay fixed and receive variable
rates based on three-month and one-month LIBOR with maturities ranging from 2009 to 2013. Until they are terminated, the swap agreements are guaranteed by Verizon Wireless. Upon closing of the acquisition, these swap agreements will be recorded at
fair value as of the closing date as part of the purchase price allocation and subsequent changes in the fair value will be recorded in earnings. Based on recent trends in the credit markets, changes in interest rates may have a significant impact
on our earnings as long as the contracts are outstanding. We estimate that a 10-basis point change in rates can result in an approximately $30 million impact on pretax earnings. We anticipate that these contracts will be settled during the first
half of 2009.       

Foreign Currency Translation         
    The functional currency of our foreign operations is generally the local currency. For these
foreign entities, we translate income statement amounts at average exchange rates for the period, and we translate assets and liabilities at end-of-period exchange rates. We record these translation adjustments in Accumulated other comprehensive
loss, a separate component of Shareowners  Investment, in our consolidated balance sheets. We report exchange gains and losses on intercompany foreign currency transactions of a long-term nature in Accumulated other comprehensive loss. Other
exchange gains and losses are reported in income. At December 31, 2008, our primary translation exposure was to the British Pound Sterling, the Euro and the Australian Dollar.      During 2008, we entered into cross currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges to exchange the net proceeds from the December 18, 2008 Verizon Wireless and Verizon Wireless Capital LLC
offering from British Pound Sterling and Euros into U.S. dollars, to fix our future interest and principal payments in U.S. dollars as well as mitigate the impact of foreign currency transaction gains or losses. We record these contracts at
fair value and any gains or losses on these contract will, over time, offset the gains or losses on the underlying debt obligations.      During 2007, we entered into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge a portion of our net investment in Vodafone Omnitel. Changes in fair value of these contracts due to Euro exchange rate fluctuations are recognized in Accumulated
other comprehensive loss and partially offset the impact of foreign currency changes on the value of our net investment. During 2008, our positions in these foreign currency forward contracts were settled. As of December 31, 2008, Accumulated
other comprehensive loss includes unrecognized losses of approximately $166 million ($108 million after-tax) related to these hedge contracts, which along with the unrealized foreign currency translation balance on the investment hedged, remain in
Accumulated other comprehensive loss until the investment is sold.   

Critical Accounting Estimates and Recent Accounting
Pronouncements          

Critical
Accounting Estimates         
    A summary of the critical accounting estimates used in preparing our financial statements is as follows:

Goodwill and Other intangible assets, net are a significant component of our consolidated assets. At December 31, 2008, goodwill at Wireline and Domestic
Wireless was $4,738 million and $1,297 million, respectively. As required by SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  (SFAS No. 142), goodwill is periodically evaluated for impairment. The evaluation of goodwill for
impairment is primarily based on a discounted cash flow model that includes estimates of future cash flows. There is inherent subjectivity involved in estimating future cash flows, which can have a material impact on the amount of any potential
impairment. Wireless licenses of $61,974 million represent the largest component of our intangible assets. Our wireless licenses are indefinite-lived intangible assets, and as required by SFAS No. 142, are not amortized but are periodically
evaluated for impairment. Any impairment loss would be determined by comparing the aggregated fair value of the wireless licenses with the aggregated carrying value. The direct value approach is used to determine fair value by estimating future cash
flows.          

We maintain benefit plans for most of our employees, including pension and other postretirement benefit plans. At December 31, 2008, in the aggregate,
pension plan benefit obligations exceeded the fair value of pension plan assets which will result in higher future pension plan expense. Other postretirement benefit plans have larger benefit obligations than plan assets, resulting in expense.
Significant benefit plan assumptions, including the discount rate used, the long-term rate of return on plan assets and health care trend rates are periodically updated and impact the amount of benefit plan income, expense, assets and obligations. A
sensitivity analysis of the impact of changes in these assumptions on the benefit obligations and expense (income) recorded as of December 31, 2008 and for the year then ended pertaining to Verizon s pension and postretirement benefit
plans is provided in the table below.           

*  
    The discount rate assumptions at December 31, 2008 were determined from hypothetical double A yield curves represented by a series of annualized individual
discount rates developed using actual bonds available in the market. From the yield curves a single equivalent discount rate is determined at which the future stream of benefit payments could be settled. Each bond issue included in developing the
yield curves is required to have a rating of double A or better by a nationally recognized rating agency and be non-callable with at least $150 million par outstanding.          

Our current and deferred income taxes, and associated valuation allowances, are impacted by events and transactions arising in the normal course of business as
well as in connection with the adoption of new accounting standards, acquisitions of businesses and non-recurring items. Assessment of the appropriate amount and classification of income taxes is dependent on several factors, including estimates of
the timing and realization of deferred income tax assets and the timing of income tax payments. We account for tax benefits taken or expected to be taken in our tax returns in accordance with FIN 48, which requires the use of a two-step approach for
recognizing and measuring tax benefits taken or expected to be taken in a tax return and disclosures regarding uncertainties in income tax positions. Actual collections and payments may materially differ from these estimates as a result of changes
in tax laws as well as unanticipated future transactions impacting related income tax balances.      

Verizon s plant, property and equipment balance represents a significant component of our consolidated assets. Depreciation expense on Verizon s local
telephone operations is principally based on the composite group remaining life method and straight-line composite rates, which provides for the recognition of the cost of the remaining net investment in telephone plant, less anticipated net salvage
value, over the remaining asset lives. We depreciate other plant, property and equipment generally on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets. Changes in the remaining useful lives of assets as a result of technological
change or other changes in circumstances, including competitive factors in the markets where we operate, can have a significant impact on asset balances and depreciation expense.          

Recent Accounting Pronouncements         
    In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS No. 132 (R)-1,  Employers  Disclosures about
Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets  (FSP 132 (R)-1). FSP 132 (R)-1 requires Verizon, as plan sponsor, to provide improved disclosures about plan assets, including categories of plan assets, nature and amount of concentrations of risk and
disclosure about fair value measurements of plan assets, similar to those required by SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements . FAS 132 (R)-1 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009. We do not expect that
the adoption of FSP 132 (R)-1 will have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.      In April 2008, the FASB issued FSP
No. FAS 142-3,  Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets  (FSP 142-3). FSP 142-3 removes the requirement under SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  to consider whether an intangible asset can be renewed
without substantial cost or material modifications to the existing terms and conditions, and replaces it with a requirement that an entity consider its own historical experience in renewing similar arrangements, or a consideration of market
participant assumptions in the absence of historical experience. FSP 142-3 also requires entities to disclose information that enables users of financial statements to assess the extent to which the expected future cash flows associated with the
asset are affected by the entity s intent and/or ability to renew or extend the arrangement. We were required to adopt FSP 142-3 effective January 1, 2009 on a prospective basis. The adoption of FSP 142-3 on January 1, 2009 did not
have an impact on our consolidated financial statements.      In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,  Disclosures about Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities   an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 , (SFAS No. 161). This statement requires additional disclosures for derivative instruments and hedging activities that include how and why an entity uses
derivatives, how these instruments and the related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS No. 133 and related interpretations, and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect the entity s financial position, results of
operations and cash flows. SFAS No. 161 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008. The adoption of SFAS No. 161 on January 1, 2009 did not have an impact
on our consolidated financial statements.      In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R),  Business Combinations , (SFAS
No. 141(R)), to replace SFAS No. 141,  Business Combinations . SFAS No. 141(R) requires the use of the acquisition method of accounting, defines the acquirer, establishes the acquisition date and broadens the scope to all
transactions and other events in which one entity obtains control over one or more other businesses. This statement is effective for business combinations or transactions entered into for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008.
Upon the adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) we will be required to expense certain transaction costs and related fees associated with business combinations that were previously capitalized. This will result in additional expenses being recognized
relating to the 2009 closing of the Alltel transaction. In addition, with the adoption of FAS 141(R) changes to valuation allowances for deferred income tax assets and adjustments to unrecognized tax benefits generally will be recognized as
adjustments to income tax expense rather than goodwill.      In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests
in Consolidated Financial Statements   an amendment of ARB No. 51 , (SFAS No. 160). SFAS No. 160 establishes accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the retained interest and
gain or loss when a subsidiary is deconsolidated. This statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008 which will be applied prospectively, except for the presentation and
disclosure requirements which will be applied retrospectively for all periods presented. Upon the initial adoption of this statement we will change the classification and presentation of Noncontrolling Interest in our financial statements, which we
currently refer to as minority interest. Additionally, we conduct certain business operations in certain markets through non-wholly owned entities. Any changes in these ownership interests may be required to be measured at fair value and recognized
as a gain or loss, if any, in earnings. SFAS No. 160 will also result in a lower effective income tax rate for the Company due to the inclusion of income attributable to noncontrolling interest in income before the provision for income taxes.
However, the income tax provision will not be adjusted as a result of SFAS No. 160.      Refer to Note 1 in the consolidated financial
statements for a discussion of the accounting pronouncements adopted during 2008.   

Other Factors That May Affect Future Results          

Recent
Developments         
     Alltel Corporation       On June 5, 2008, Verizon Wireless entered into an agreement and plan of merger with Alltel and its controlling stockholder, Atlantis Holdings LLC, an affiliate of private investment firms TPG Capital and GS
Capital Partners, to acquire 100% of the equity of Alltel in an all-cash merger. After satisfying all closing conditions, including receiving the required regulatory approvals, Verizon Wireless closed the acquisition on January 9, 2009 and paid
approximately $5.9 billion for the equity of Alltel. Immediately prior to the closing, the Alltel debt associated with the transaction, net of cash, was approximately $22.2 billion. Alltel provides wireless voice and advanced data services to
residential and business customers in 34 states.      In connection with this transaction, on June 10, 2008, Verizon Wireless purchased
from third parties approximately $5.0 billion aggregate principal amount of debt obligations of certain subsidiaries of Alltel for approximately $4.8 billion plus accrued and unpaid interest. These debt obligations are included in the amount of
Alltel net debt, referenced above, immediately prior to the closing referenced above.       Rural Cellular Corporation       On August 7, 2008, Verizon Wireless acquired 100% of the outstanding common stock and redeemed all of the preferred stock of Rural Cellular in a cash
transaction. Rural Cellular was a wireless communications service provider operating under the trade name of  Unicel,  focusing primarily on rural markets in the United States. Verizon Wireless believes that the acquisition will further
enhance its network coverage in markets adjacent to its existing service areas and will enable Verizon Wireless to achieve operational benefits through realizing synergies in reduced roaming and other operating expenses. Under the terms of the
acquisition agreement, Verizon Wireless paid Rural Cellular s common shareholders $728 million in cash ($45 per share). Additionally, all classes of Rural Cellular s preferred shareholders received cash in the aggregate amount of $571
million.      As part of its approval process for the Rural Cellular acquisition, the FCC and Department of Justice (DOJ) required the
divestiture of six operating markets, including all of Rural Cellular s operations in Vermont and New York as well as its operations in Okanogan and Ferry, WA (the Divestiture Markets). On December 22, 2008, Verizon Wireless completed an
exchange transaction with AT T. Pursuant to the terms of the exchange agreement, as amended, AT T received the assets relating to the Divestiture Markets and a cellular license for part of the Madison, KY market. In exchange, Verizon
Wireless received cellular operating markets in Madison and Mason, KY and 10 MHz PCS licenses in Las Vegas, NV, Buffalo, NY, Erie, PA, Sunbury-Shamokin, PA and Youngstown, OH. Verizon Wireless also received AT T s minority interests in
three entities in which Verizon Wireless holds interests plus a cash payment. The preliminary aggregate value of properties exchanged was approximately $500 million. In addition, subject to FCC approval, Verizon Wireless will acquire PCS licenses in
Franklin, NY (except Franklin county) and the entire state of Vermont from AT T in a separate cash transaction that is expected to close in the first half of 2009.       Telephone Access Lines Spin-off       On January 16, 2007, we announced a definitive agreement with
FairPoint Communications, Inc. (FairPoint) providing for Verizon to establish a separate entity for its local exchange and related business assets in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont, spin-off that new entity into a newly formed company, known as
Northern New England Spinco Inc. (Spinco), to Verizon s shareowners, and immediately merge it with and into FairPoint. On March 31, 2008, we completed the spin-off of the shares of Spinco to Verizon shareowners and the merger of Spinco
with FairPoint, resulting in Verizon shareowners collectively owning approximately 60 percent of FairPoint common stock. FairPoint issued approximately 53.8 million shares of FairPoint common stock to Verizon shareowners in the merger, and
Verizon shareowners received one share of FairPoint common stock for every 53.0245 shares of Verizon common stock they owned as of March 7, 2008. FairPoint paid cash in lieu of any fraction of a share of FairPoint common stock. As a result of
the spin-off, our net debt was reduced by approximately $1.4 billion. Both the spin-off and merger qualify as tax-free transactions, except for the cash payments for fractional shares which are generally taxable.       Environmental Matters       During 2003, under a
government-approved plan, remediation commenced at the site of a former Sylvania facility in Hicksville, New York that processed nuclear fuel rods in the 1950s and 1960s. Remediation beyond original expectations proved to be necessary and a
reassessment of the anticipated remediation costs was conducted. A reassessment of costs related to remediation efforts at several other former facilities was also undertaken. In September 2005, the Army Corps of Engineers (ACE) accepted the
Hicksville site into the Formerly Utilized Sites Remedial Action Program. This may result in the ACE performing some or all of the remediation effort for the Hicksville site with a corresponding decrease in costs to Verizon. To the extent that the
ACE assumes responsibility for remedial work at the Hicksville site, an adjustment to a reserve previously established for the remediation may be made. Adjustments to the reserve may also be necessary based upon actual conditions discovered during
the remediation at any of the sites requiring remediation.   

New York Recovery Funding       In August 2002, President Bush signed the Supplemental Appropriations bill that included $5.5 billion in New York recovery funding. Of that amount, approximately $750 million was allocated to cover utility restoration
and infrastructure rebuilding as a result of the September 11th terrorist attacks on lower Manhattan. These funds will be distributed through the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation and Empire State Development Corporation (ESDC) following
an application and audit process. As of September 2004, we had applied for reimbursement of approximately $266 million under Category One and in 2004 and 2005 we applied for reimbursement of an additional $139 million of Category Two losses.
Category One funding relates to Emergency and Temporary Service Response while Category Two funding is for permanent restoration and infrastructure improvement. According to the plan, permanent restoration is reimbursed up to 75% of the loss. On
November 3, 2005, we received the results of preliminary audit findings disallowing all but $49.9 million of our $266 million of Category One application. On December 8, 2005, we provided a detailed rebuttal to the preliminary audit
findings. We received a copy of the final audit report for Verizon s Category One applications largely confirming the preliminary audit findings and, on January 4, 2007, we filed an appeal. That appeal is pending. On November 9, 2007,
Verizon submitted an additional Category Two application for approximately $16 million. ESDC has approved approximately $17 million in advances to Verizon on its Category Two applications. Based on the progress of these audits, Verizon recorded a
portion of these advances to income in June 2008. The Category Two audits remain pending.       

Regulatory and Competitive Trends         
     Competition and Regulation       Technological, regulatory and market changes have provided Verizon both new opportunities and challenges. These changes have allowed Verizon to offer new types of services in an increasingly competitive market. At the
same time, they have allowed other service providers to broaden the scope of their own competitive offerings. Current and potential competitors for network services include other telephone companies, cable companies, wireless service providers,
foreign telecommunications providers, satellite providers, electric utilities, Internet service providers, providers of VoIP services, and other companies that offer network services using a variety of technologies. Many of these companies have a
strong market presence, brand recognition and existing customer relationships, all of which contribute to intensifying competition and may affect our future revenue growth. Many of our competitors also remain subject to fewer regulatory constraints
than Verizon.      We are unable to predict definitively the impact that the ongoing changes in the telecommunications industry will ultimately
have on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The financial impact will depend on several factors, including the timing, extent and success of competition in our markets, the timing and outcome of various regulatory proceedings
and any appeals, and the timing, extent and success of our pursuit of new opportunities.       FCC Regulation       The FCC has jurisdiction over our interstate telecommunications services and other matters for which the FCC has jurisdiction under the Communications Act
of 1934, as amended (Communications Act). The Communications Act generally provides that we may not charge unjust or unreasonable rates, or engage in unreasonable discrimination when we are providing services as a common carrier, and regulates some
of the rates, terms and conditions under which we provide certain services. The FCC also has adopted regulations governing various aspects of our business including: (i) use and disclosure of customer proprietary network information;
(ii) telemarketing; (iii) assignment of telephone numbers to customers; (iv) provision to law enforcement agencies of the capability to obtain call identifying information and call content information from calls pursuant to lawful
process; (v) accessibility of services and equipment to individuals with disabilities if readily achievable; (vi) interconnection with the networks of other carriers; and (vii) customers  ability to keep (or  port )
their telephone numbers when switching to another carrier. In addition, we pay various fees to support other FCC programs, such as the universal service program discussed below. Changes to these mandates, or the adoption of additional mandates,
could require us to make changes to our operations or otherwise increase our costs of compliance.       Broadband       The FCC has adopted a series of orders that recognize the competitive nature of the broadband market and impose lesser regulatory requirements on
broadband services and facilities than apply to narrowband or traditional telephone services. With respect to facilities, the FCC has determined that certain unbundling requirements that apply to narrowband facilities do not apply to broadband
facilities such as fiber to the premise loops and packet switches. With respect to services, the FCC has concluded that broadband Internet access services offered by telephone companies and their affiliates qualify as largely deregulated information
services. The same order also concluded that telephone companies may offer the underlying broadband transmission services that are used as an input to Internet access services through private carriage arrangements on negotiated commercial terms. The
order was upheld on appeal. In addition, a Verizon petition asking the FCC to forbear from applying common carrier regulation to certain broadband services sold primarily to larger business customers when those services are not used for Internet
access was deemed granted by operation of law when the FCC did not deny the petition by the statutory deadline. The relief has been upheld on appeal, but is subject to a continuing challenge before the FCC.   

Video       The FCC has a body of rules that apply to cable operators under Title VI of the Communications Act of 1934, and these rules also generally apply to telephone companies that provide cable services over their networks. In addition, companies
that provide cable service over a cable system generally must obtain a local cable franchise. The FCC has interpreted the Cable Act to limit the franchise fees and other requirements that local franchise authorities may impose on cable operators and
has found that some prior practices of franchise authorities constituted an unreasonable refusal to award a competitive local franchise under the requirements of federal law. This order has been upheld on appeal.       Interstate Access Charges and Intercarrier Compensation       The current framework for interstate access rates was established in the Coalition for Affordable Local and Long Distance Services (CALLS) plan which the FCC adopted on May 31, 2000. The CALLS plan has three main components. First, it
establishes portable interstate access universal service support of $650 million for the industry that replaces implicit support previously embedded in interstate access charges. Second, the plan simplifies the patchwork of common line charges into
one subscriber line charge (SLC) and provides for de-averaging of the SLC by zones and class of customers. Third, the plan set into place a mechanism to transition to a set target of $.0055 per minute for switched access services. Once that target
rate is reached, local exchange carriers are no longer required to make further annual price cap reductions to their switched access prices. As a result of tariff adjustments which became effective in July 2003, virtually all of our switched access
lines reached the $.0055 benchmark.      The FCC currently is conducting a broad rulemaking proceeding to consider new rules governing
intercarrier compensation including, but not limited to, access charges, compensation for Internet traffic and reciprocal compensation for local traffic. The FCC has sought comments about intercarrier compensation in general and requested input on a
number of specific reform proposals. On November 5, 2008, the FCC issued an order on remand relating to intercarrier compensation for dial-up Internet-bound traffic. In April 2001, the FCC had found that this traffic is not subject to
reciprocal compensation under Section 251(b)(5) of the Telecommunications Act of 1996. Instead, in that order, the FCC established federal rates per minute for this traffic that declined from $.0015 to $.0007 over a three-year period, and
required incumbent local exchange carriers to offer to both bill and pay reciprocal compensation for local traffic at the same rate as they are required to pay on Internet-bound traffic. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit rejected part
of the FCC s rationale, but declined to vacate the order while it is on remand. On July 8, 2008, the D.C. Circuit issued an order requiring the FCC to issue its order on remand by November 5, 2008. The FCC s November 2008 order
provided a new rationale to support the compensation regime the FCC had announced in April 2001. The November 2008 order is now on appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. Disputes also remain pending in a number of forums relating
to the appropriate compensation for Internet-bound traffic during previous periods under the terms of our interconnection agreements with other carriers.      The FCC is also conducting a rulemaking proceeding to address the regulation of services that use Internet protocol. The issues raised in the rulemaking as well as in several petitions currently pending before the FCC
include whether, and under what circumstances, access charges should apply to voice or other Internet protocol services and the scope of federal and state commission authority over these services. The FCC previously has held that one provider s
peer-to-peer Internet protocol service that does not use the public switched network is an interstate information service and is not subject to access charges, while a service that utilizes Internet protocol for only one intermediate part of a
call s transmission is a telecommunications service that is subject to access charges. The FCC also declared the services offered by one provider of a voice over Internet protocol service to be jurisdictionally interstate and stated that its
conclusion would apply to other services with similar characteristics. This order was affirmed on appeal.      The FCC also has adopted rules
for special access services that provide for pricing flexibility and ultimately the removal of services from price regulation when prescribed competitive thresholds are met. More than half of special access revenues are now removed from price
regulation. The FCC currently has a rulemaking proceeding underway to update the public record concerning its pricing flexibility rules and to determine whether any changes to those rules are warranted.       Universal Service       The FCC also has a body of rules
implementing the universal service provisions of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, including rules governing support to rural and non-rural high-cost areas, support for low income subscribers and support for schools, libraries and rural health
care. The FCC s current rules for support to high-cost areas served by larger  non-rural  local telephone companies were previously remanded by U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, which had found that the FCC had not
adequately justified these rules. The FCC has initiated a rulemaking proceeding in response to the court s remand, but its rules remain in effect pending the results of the rulemaking. On April 29, 2008, the FCC adopted a cap on the amount
of support competitive carriers (including all wireless carriers) may receive. That cap is the subject of a pending appeal. The FCC is considering additional changes to the high-cost portion of the universal service fund but has not to date taken
industry-wide action. However, in its November 4, 2008 order approving Verizon Wireless s acquisition of Alltel, the FCC required Verizon Wireless to phase out the high-cost support the merged company receives from the universal service
fund by 20 percent during the first year following completion of the acquisition and by an additional 20 percent for each of the following three years, after which no support will be provided. In addition, the FCC is considering other changes to the
rules governing contributions to, and disbursements from, the fund. Any change in the current rules could result in a change in the contribution that local telephone companies, wireless carriers or others must make and that would have to be
collected from customers, or in the amounts that these providers receive from the fund.   

Unbundling of Network Elements       Under Section 251 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, incumbent local exchange carriers are required to provide competing carriers with access to components of their network on an unbundled basis, known as
UNEs, where certain statutory standards are satisfied. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 also adopted a cost-based pricing standard for these UNEs, which the FCC interpreted as allowing it to impose a pricing standard known as  total element
long run incremental cost  or  TELRIC.  The FCC s rules defining the unbundled network elements that must be made available at TELRIC prices have been overturned on multiple occasions by the courts. In its most recent order
issued in response to these court decisions, the FCC eliminated the requirement to unbundle mass market local switching on a nationwide basis, and established criteria for determining whether high-capacity loops, transport or dark fiber transport
must be unbundled in individual wire centers. The FCC also eliminated the obligation to provide dark fiber loops and found that there is no obligation to provide UNEs exclusively for wireless or long distance service. The decision was upheld on
appeal.      As noted above, the FCC has concluded that the requirement under Section 251 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 to provide
unbundled network elements at TELRIC prices generally does not apply with respect to broadband facilities, such as fiber to the premises loops, the packet-switched capabilities of hybrid loops and packet switching. The FCC also has held that any
separate unbundling obligations that may be imposed by Section 271 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 do not apply to these same facilities. Those decisions were upheld on appeal.       Wireless Services       The FCC regulates the licensing,
construction, operation, acquisition and transfer of wireless communications systems, including the systems that Verizon Wireless operates, pursuant to the Communications Act, other legislation, and the FCC s rules. The FCC and Congress
continuously consider changes to these laws and rules. Adoption of new laws or rules may raise the cost of providing service or require modification of Verizon Wireless s business plans or operations.      To use the radio frequency spectrum, wireless communications systems must be licensed by the FCC to operate the wireless network and mobile devices in
assigned spectrum segments. Verizon Wireless holds FCC licenses to operate in several different radio services, including the cellular radiotelephone service, personal communications service, wireless communications service, and point-to-point radio
service. The technical and service rules, the specific radio frequencies and amounts of spectrum we hold, and the sizes of the geographic areas we are authorized to operate in, vary for each of these services. However, all of the licenses Verizon
Wireless holds allow it to use spectrum to provide a wide range of mobile and fixed communications services, including both voice and data services, and Verizon Wireless operates a seamless network that utilizes those licenses to provide services to
customers. Because the FCC issues licenses for only a fixed time, generally 10 years, Verizon Wireless must periodically seek renewal of those licenses. Although the FCC has routinely renewed all of Verizon Wireless s licenses that have come up
for renewal to date, challenges could be brought against the licenses in the future. If a wireless license were revoked or not renewed upon expiration, Verizon Wireless would not be permitted to provide services on the licensed spectrum in the area
covered by that license.      The FCC has also imposed specific mandates on carriers that operate wireless communications systems, which
increase Verizon Wireless s costs. These mandates include requirements that Verizon Wireless: (i) meet specific construction and geographic coverage requirements during the license term; (ii) meet technical operating standards that,
among other things, limit the radio frequency radiation from mobile devices and antennas; (iii) deploy  Enhanced 911  wireless services that provide the wireless caller s number, location and other information to a state or local
public safety agency that handles 911 calls; (iv) provide roaming services to other wireless service providers; and (v) comply with regulations for the construction of transmitters and towers that, among other things, restrict siting of
towers in environmentally sensitive locations and in places where the towers would affect a site listed or eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places. Changes to these mandates could require Verizon Wireless to make changes to
operations or increase its costs of compliance. In its November 4, 2008 order approving Verizon Wireless s acquisition of Alltel, the FCC adopted conditions that impose additional requirements on Verizon Wireless in its provision of
Enhanced 911 services and roaming services.      The Communications Act imposes restrictions on foreign ownership of U.S. wireless systems. The
FCC has approved the interest that Vodafone Group Plc holds, through various of its subsidiaries, in Verizon Wireless. The FCC may need to approve any increase in Vodafone s interest or the acquisition of an ownership interest by other foreign
entities. In addition, as part of the FCC s approval of Vodafone s ownership interest, Verizon Wireless, Verizon and Vodafone entered into an agreement with the U.S. Department of Defense, Department of Justice and Federal Bureau of
Investigation which imposes national security and law enforcement-related obligations on the ways in which Verizon Wireless stores information and otherwise conducts its business.      Verizon Wireless anticipates that it will need additional spectrum to meet future demand. It can meet spectrum needs by purchasing licenses or leasing spectrum from other licensees, or by
acquiring new spectrum licenses from the FCC. Under the Communications Act, before Verizon Wireless can acquire a license from another licensee in order to expand its coverage or its spectrum capacity in a particular area, it must file an
application with the FCC, and the FCC can grant the application only after a period for public notice and comment. This review process can delay acquisition of spectrum needed to expand services. The Communications Act also requires the FCC to award
new licenses for most commercial wireless services through a competitive bidding process in which spectrum is awarded to bidders in an auction. Verizon Wireless has participated in spectrum auctions to acquire licenses for radio spectrum in various
bands. Most recently, it participated in the FCC s auction of spectrum in the 700 MHz band. This spectrum is currently used for UHF television operations. By law those operations were to have ceased no later than February 17, 2009.
However, a new law has been enacted that extends this date until June 12, 2009. We do not believe that this extension will have a material adverse effect on our testing of LTE technology or our planned deployment of a 4G wireless broadband
network using LTE.      On November 26, 2008, the FCC granted Verizon Wireless 109 licenses in this band for which it was the winning
bidder. The FCC also adopted service rules that will impose costs on licensees that acquire the 700 MHz band spectrum, including minimum coverage mandates by specific dates during the license terms, and, for approximately one-third of the spectrum,
 open access  requirements, which generally require  

licensees of that spectrum to allow customers to use devices and applications of their choice, subject to certain limits. Seven of the licenses that Verizon
Wireless acquired in the 700 MHz auction, which in the aggregate cover the United States except for Alaska, are subject to these requirements. The open access requirements are the subject of a pending appeal in which Verizon Wireless has intervened.
The timing of future auctions may not match Verizon Wireless s needs, and the company may not be able to secure the spectrum in the amounts and/or in the markets it seeks through any future auction.      The FCC is also conducting several proceedings to explore making additional spectrum available for licensed and/or unlicensed use. These proceedings
could increase radio interference to Verizon Wireless s operations from other spectrum users and could impact the ways in which it uses spectrum, the capacity of that spectrum to carry traffic, and the value of that spectrum.       State Regulation and Local Approvals        Telephone Operations  
     State public utility commissions regulate our telephone operations with respect to certain telecommunications intrastate rates and services
and other matters. Our competitive local exchange carrier and long distance operations are generally classified as nondominant and lightly regulated the same as other similarly situated carriers. Our incumbent local exchange operations are generally
classified as dominant. These latter operations predominantly are subject to alternative forms of regulation (AFORs) in the various states, although they remain subject to rate of return regulation in a few states. Arizona, Illinois, Nevada, Oregon
and Washington are rate of return regulated with various levels of pricing flexibility for competitive services. California, Connecticut, Delaware, the District of Columbia, Florida, Indiana, Maryland, Michigan, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York,
North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Texas, Virginia, West Virginia and Wisconsin are under AFORs with various levels of pricing flexibility, detariffing, and service quality standards. None of the AFORs include earnings
regulation. In Idaho, Verizon has made the election under a statutory amendment into a deregulatory regime that phases out all price regulation.       Video
      Companies that provide cable service over a cable system are typically subject to state and/or local cable television rules and
regulations. As noted above, cable operators generally must obtain a local cable franchise from each local unit of government prior to providing cable service in that local area. Some states have recently enacted legislation that enables cable
operators to apply for, and obtain, a single cable franchise at the state, rather than local, level. To date, Verizon has applied for and received state-issued franchises in California, Indiana, Florida, New Jersey, Texas and the unincorporated
areas of Delaware. We also have obtained authorization from the state commission in Rhode Island to provide cable service in certain areas in that state, have obtained required state commission approvals for our local franchises in New York, and
will need to obtain additional state commission approvals in these states to provide cable service in additional areas. Virginia law provides us the option of entering a given franchise area using state standards if local franchise negotiations are
unsuccessful.       Wireless Services       The
rapid growth of the wireless industry has led to an increase in efforts by some state legislatures and state public utility commissions to regulate the industry in ways that may impose additional costs on Verizon Wireless. The Communications Act
generally preempts regulation by state and local governments of the entry of, or the rates charged by, wireless carriers. Although a state may petition the FCC to allow it to impose rate regulation, no state has done so. In addition, the
Communications Act does not prohibit the states from regulating the other  terms and conditions  of wireless service. While numerous state commissions do not currently have jurisdiction over wireless services, state legislatures may decide
to grant them such jurisdiction, and those commissions that already have authority to impose regulations on wireless carriers may adopt new rules.      State efforts to regulate wireless services have included proposals to regulate customer billing, termination of service, trial periods for service, advertising, network outages, the use of handsets while driving, and reporting requirements
for system outages and the availability of broadband wireless services. Over the past several years, only a few states have imposed regulation in one or more of these areas, and in 2006 a federal appellate court struck down one such state statute,
but Verizon Wireless expects these efforts to continue. Some states also impose their own universal service support regimes on wireless and other telecommunications carriers, and other states are considering whether to create such regimes.
     Verizon Wireless (as well as AT T and Sprint-Nextel) is a party to an Assurance of Voluntary Compliance (AVC) with 33 State Attorneys
General. The AVC, which generally reflected Verizon Wireless s practices at the time it was entered into in July 2004, obligates the company to disclose certain rates and terms during a sales transaction, to provide maps depicting coverage, and
to comply with various requirements regarding advertising, billing, and other practices.      At the state and local level, wireless facilities
are subject to zoning and land use regulation. Under the Communications Act, neither state nor local governments may categorically prohibit the construction of wireless facilities in any community or take actions, such as indefinite moratoria, which
have the effect of prohibiting service. Nonetheless, securing state and local government approvals for new tower sites has been and is likely to continue to be a difficult, lengthy and expensive process. Finally, state and local governments continue
to impose new or higher fees and taxes on wireless carriers.   

Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements         
    In this annual report on Form 10-K we have made forward-looking statements. These statements are
based on our estimates and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include the information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations. Forward-looking statements also include those
preceded or followed by the words  anticipates,   believes,   estimates,   hopes  or similar expressions. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements
contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.      The following important factors, along with those discussed elsewhere
in this annual report, could affect future results and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements:       

the effects of adverse conditions in the U.S. and international economies;          

the effects of competition in our markets;          

materially adverse changes in labor matters, including workforce levels and labor negotiations, and any resulting financial and/or operational impact, in the
markets served by us or by companies in which we have substantial investments;          

the effects of material changes in available technology;          

any disruption of our suppliers  provisioning of critical products or services;          

significant increases in benefit plan costs or lower investment returns on plan assets;          

the impact of natural or man-made disasters or existing or future litigation and any resulting financial impact not covered by insurance;

technology substitution;          

an adverse change in the ratings afforded our debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations or adverse conditions in the credit markets
impacting the cost, including interest rates, and/or availability of financing;          

any changes in the regulatory environments in which we operate, including any loss of or inability to renew wireless licenses, and the final results of federal
and state regulatory proceedings and judicial review of those results;          

the timing, scope and financial impact of our deployment of fiber-to-the-premises broadband technology;          

changes in our accounting assumptions that regulatory agencies, including the SEC, may require or that result from changes in the accounting rules or their
application, which could result in an impact on earnings;          

our ability to successfully integrate Alltel Corporation into Verizon Wireless s business and achieve anticipated benefits of the acquisition; and

the inability to implement our business strategies.      

Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  
        
      We, the management of Verizon Communications Inc., are
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting of the company. Management has evaluated internal control over financial reporting of the company using the criteria for effective internal control
established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.      Management has assessed the effectiveness of the company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. Based on this assessment, we believe that the internal control over financial reporting of the company
is effective as of December 31, 2008. In connection with this assessment, there were no material weaknesses in the company s internal control over financial reporting identified by management.      The company s financial statements included in this annual report have been audited by Ernst   Young LLP, independent registered public
accounting firm. Ernst   Young LLP has also provided an attestation report on the company s internal control over financial reporting.       

/s/    Ivan G. Seidenberg    
 
           Ivan G. Seidenberg    
 
          Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   

/s/    Doreen A. Toben    
 
           Doreen A. Toben    
 
          Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   

/s/    Thomas A. Bartlett    
 
           Thomas A. Bartlett    
 
          Senior Vice President and Controller   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting          
       To The Board of Directors and Shareowners of Verizon Communications
Inc.:       We have audited Verizon Communications Inc. and subsidiaries  (Verizon) internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Verizon s management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.      We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
     Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, Verizon maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on
the COSO criteria.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States), the consolidated balance sheets of Verizon as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, cash flows and changes in shareowners  investment for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2008 of Verizon and our report dated February 20, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.       

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial
Statements          
       To The Board of Directors and Shareowners of Verizon Communications
Inc.:       We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Verizon Communications Inc. and subsidiaries (Verizon) as of
December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, cash flows and changes in shareowners  investment for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008. These financial statements
are the responsibility of Verizon s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Verizon
at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
     As discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, Verizon changed its methods of accounting for uncertainty in income taxes and for
leveraged lease transactions effective January 1, 2007, stock-based compensation effective January 1, 2006 and pension and other post-retirement obligations effective December 31, 2006.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Verizon s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February
20, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.       

Consolidated
Statements of Income   Verizon Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries          

(1)      
    Total per share amounts may not add due to rounding.         See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

Consolidated
Balance Sheets   Verizon Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries          
     
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows       Verizon Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries            
     
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

Consolidated
Statements of Changes in Shareowners  Investment   Verizon Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries          
     
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   Verizon Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries     

Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
   
     Description of Business       Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon or the Company) is one of the world s leading providers of communications services. We have two reportable segments, Domestic Wireless and Wireline, which we operate and
manage as strategic business units and organize by products and services. For further information concerning our business segments, see Note 17.      Verizon s Domestic Wireless segment, operating as Verizon Wireless, provides wireless voice and data products and other value-added services and equipment across the United States (U.S.) using one of the most extensive and reliable
wireless networks. Verizon Wireless continues to expand our wireless data, messaging and multi-media offerings at broadband speeds for both consumer and business customers.      Our Wireline segment provides communications services, including voice, broadband video and data, network access, nationwide long-distance and other communications products and services, and also
owns and operates one of the most expansive end-to-end global Internet Protocol (IP) networks. We continue to deploy advanced broadband network technology, with our fiber-to-the-premises network, operated under the FiOS service mark, creating a
platform with sufficient bandwidth and capabilities to meet customers  current and future needs. FiOS allows us to offer our customers a wide array of broadband services, including advanced data and video offerings. Our IP network includes over
485,000 route miles of fiber optic cable and provides access to over 150 countries across six continents, enabling us to provide next-generation IP network products and information technology services to medium and large businesses and government
customers worldwide.       Consolidation       The method of accounting applied to investments, whether consolidated, equity or cost, involves an evaluation of all significant terms of the investments that explicitly grant or suggest evidence of control or influence over the operations
of the investee. The consolidated financial statements include our controlled subsidiaries. Investments in businesses which we do not control, but have the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies, are
accounted for using the equity method. Investments in which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies are accounted for under the cost method. Equity and cost method investments are included
in Investments in unconsolidated businesses in our consolidated balance sheets. Certain of our cost method investments are classified as available-for-sale securities and adjusted to fair value pursuant to the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 115,  Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities  (SFAS No. 115).      All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.      We have reclassified prior
year amounts to conform to the current year presentation.       Use of Estimates       We prepare our financial statements using U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), which require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and
disclosures. Actual results could differ from those estimates.      Examples of significant estimates include: the allowance for doubtful
accounts, the recoverability of plant, property and equipment, the recoverability of intangible assets and other long-lived assets, unbilled revenues, fair values of financial instruments, unrecognized tax benefits, valuation allowances on tax
assets, accrued expenses, equity in income of unconsolidated entities, pension and postretirement benefit assumptions, contingencies and allocation of purchase prices in connection with business combinations.       Revenue Recognition        Domestic Wireless       Our Domestic Wireless segment earns revenue by providing access to and usage of our network, which includes voice and data revenue. In general, access
revenue is billed one month in advance and recognized when earned. Access revenue and usage revenue are recognized when service is rendered. Equipment sales revenue associated with the sale of wireless handsets and accessories is recognized when the
products are delivered to and accepted by the customer, as this is considered to be a separate earnings process from the sale of wireless services. Customer activation fees are considered additional consideration, and to the extent that handsets are
sold to customers at a discount, these fees are recorded as equipment sales revenue at the time of customer acceptance. For agreements involving the resale of third-party services in which we are considered the primary obligor in the arrangements,
we record the revenue gross.   

Wireline       Our Wireline segment earns revenue based upon usage of our network and facilities and contract fees. In general, fixed monthly fees for voice, video, data and certain other services are billed one month in advance and recognized when
earned. Revenue from services that are not fixed in amount and are based on usage is recognized when such services are provided.      We
recognize equipment revenue for services, in which we bundle the equipment with maintenance and monitoring services, when the equipment is installed in accordance with contractual specifications and ready for the customer s use. The maintenance
and monitoring services are recognized monthly over the term of the contract as we provide the services. Long-term contracts are accounted for using the percentage of completion method. We use the completed contract method if we cannot estimate the
costs with a reasonable degree of reliability.      Customer activation fees, along with the related costs up to but not exceeding the
activation fees, are deferred and amortized over the customer relationship period.      We report taxes imposed by governmental authorities on
revenue-producing transactions between us and our customers that are within the scope of EITF No. 06-3,  How Taxes Collected from Customers and Remitted to Governmental Authorities Should Be Presented in the Income Statement  in the
consolidated financial statements on a net basis.       Discontinued Operations, Assets Held for Sale, and Sales of Businesses and Investments
      We classify as discontinued operations for all periods presented any component of our business that we hold for sale or disposal that
has operations and cash flows that are clearly distinguishable operationally and for financial reporting purposes from the rest of Verizon. For those components, Verizon has no significant continuing involvement after disposal and their operations
and cash flows are eliminated from Verizon s ongoing operations. Sales of significant components of our business not classified as discontinued operations are reported as either Equity in earnings of unconsolidated businesses or Other income
and (expense), net in our consolidated statements of income.       Maintenance and Repairs       We charge the cost of maintenance and repairs, including the cost of replacing minor items not constituting substantial betterments, principally to Cost of services and sales as these costs are
incurred.       Advertising Costs       Advertising costs for advertising products and services as well as other promotional and sponsorship costs are charged to Selling, general and administrative expense in the periods in which they are incurred (see Note 19).       Earnings Per Common Share       Basic earnings per common
share are based on the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per common share include the dilutive effect of shares issuable under our stock-based compensation plans, an exchangeable equity interest and
zero-coupon convertible notes (see Note 13). As of December 31, 2006, the exchangeable equity interest and zero-coupon convertible notes were no longer outstanding.       Cash and Cash Equivalents       We consider all highly liquid investments with a maturity of 90 days or
less when purchased to be cash equivalents. Cash equivalents are stated at cost, which approximates market value and include amounts held in money market funds. Prior to the close of the acquisition of Alltel Corporation (Alltel) we redeemed
approximately $8.9 billion of these money market funds (see Note 2).       Short-Term Investments       Our short-term investments, which are stated at fair value, consist primarily of money market funds, a portion of which is held in trust to pay for certain employee benefits.       Marketable Securities       Marketable securities are
included in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets in Short-term investments, Investments in unconsolidated businesses or Other assets. We continually evaluate our investments in marketable securities for impairment due to declines in market
value considered to be other-than-temporary. That evaluation includes, in addition to persistent, declining stock prices, general economic and company-specific evaluations. In the event of a determination that a decline in market value is
other-than-temporary, a charge to earnings is recorded for the loss, and a new cost basis in the investment is established.   

Inventories       Inventory consists of wireless and wireline equipment held for sale, which is carried at the lower of cost (determined principally on either an average cost or first-in, first-out basis) or market. We also include in inventory new and
reusable supplies and network equipment of our local telephone operations, which are stated principally at average original cost, except that specific costs are used in the case of large individual items.       Plant and Depreciation       We record plant, property and
equipment at cost. Our local telephone operations  depreciation expense is principally based on the composite group remaining life method and straight-line composite rates. This method provides for the recognition of the cost of the remaining
net investment in local telephone plant, less anticipated net salvage value, over the remaining asset lives. This method requires the periodic revision of depreciation rates.      Plant, property and equipment of other wireline and wireless operations are generally depreciated on a straight-line basis.      The asset lives used by our operations are presented in the following table:       
    When we replace, retire or otherwise dispose of depreciable plant used in our local telephone
network, we deduct the carrying amount of such plant from the respective accounts and charge it to accumulated depreciation. When the depreciable assets of our other wireline and wireless operations are retired or otherwise disposed of, the related
cost and accumulated depreciation are deducted from the plant accounts, and any gains or losses on disposition are recognized in income.      We capitalize network software purchased or developed along with related plant assets. We also capitalize interest associated with the acquisition or construction of network-related assets. Capitalized interest is reported as part of the
cost of the network-related assets and as a reduction in interest expense.      In connection with our ongoing review of the average useful
lives of plant, property and equipment, we determined, effective January 1, 2009 that the average useful lives of fiber cable would be increased to 25 years from 20 to 25 years and the average useful lives of copper cable would be changed to 15
years from 13 to 18 years. These changes are not expected to have a significant impact on our depreciation expense for 2009. Effective January 1, 2008 the average useful lives of fiber cable was increased from 20 years to 20 to 25 years. This
change did not result in a significant impact to depreciation expense for 2008. Effective January 1, 2007, the average useful lives of certain of the circuit equipment was lengthened from 8 years to 9 years based on subsequent modifications to
our fiber optic cable deployment plan. The average useful lives of certain buildings at Wireline was also increased from 42 years to 45 years. The reduction in depreciation resulting from these adjustments in 2007 was partially offset by increased
depreciation resulting from the shortening of the lives of various types of wireless plant, property and equipment. While the timing and extent of current deployment plans are subject to modification, we believe the current estimates of impacted
asset lives are reasonable and subject to ongoing analysis.       Computer Software Costs       We capitalize the cost of internal-use network and non-network software which has a useful life in excess of one year. Subsequent additions, modifications or upgrades to internal-use network and
non-network software are capitalized only to the extent that they allow the software to perform a task it previously did not perform. Software maintenance and training costs are expensed in the period in which they are incurred. Also, we capitalize
interest associated with the development of internal-use network and non-network software. Capitalized non-network internal-use software costs are amortized using the straight-line method over a period of 2 to 7 years and are included in Other
intangible assets, net in our consolidated balance sheets. For a discussion of our impairment policy for capitalized software costs, see  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  below. Also, see Note 4 for additional detail of internal-use
non-network software reflected in our consolidated balance sheets.   

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets        Goodwill       Goodwill is the excess of the acquisition cost of businesses over the fair value of the
identifiable net assets acquired. Impairment testing for goodwill is performed annually or more frequently if indications of potential impairment exist under the provisions of SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  (SFAS
No. 142). The impairment test for goodwill uses a two-step approach, which is performed at the reporting unit level. We have determined that in our case, the reporting units are our operating segments since that is the lowest level at which
discrete, reliable financial and cash flow information is available. Step one compares the fair value of the reporting unit (calculated using a market approach and a discounted cash flow method) to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds
the fair value, there is a potential impairment and step two must be performed. Step two compares the carrying value of the reporting unit s goodwill to its implied fair value (i.e., fair value of reporting unit less the fair value of the
unit s assets and liabilities, including identifiable intangible assets). If the fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount of goodwill, an impairment is recognized.       Intangible Assets Not Subject to Amortization       A significant portion of our intangible assets are
wireless licenses that provide our wireless operations with the exclusive right to utilize designated radio frequency spectrum to provide cellular communication services. While licenses are issued for only a fixed time, generally ten years, such
licenses are subject to renewal by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). Renewals of licenses have occurred routinely and at nominal cost. Moreover, we have determined that there are currently no legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive,
economic or other factors that limit the useful life of our wireless licenses. As a result, we treat the wireless licenses as an indefinite-lived intangible asset under the provisions of SFAS No. 142. We reevaluate the useful life determination
for wireless licenses each reporting period to determine whether events and circumstances continue to support an indefinite useful life.      We test our wireless licenses for potential impairment annually or more frequently if indications of impairment exist. We evaluate our licenses on an aggregate basis using a direct value approach. The direct value approach determines fair
value using estimates of future cash flows associated specifically with the licenses. If the fair value of the aggregated wireless licenses is less than the aggregated carrying amount of the licenses, an impairment is recognized.      Interest expense incurred while qualifying wireless licenses are developed for service is capitalized as part of Wireless licenses. The capitalization
period ends when the development is completed and the licenses are placed in commercial service.       Intangible Assets Subject to Amortization
      Our intangible assets that do not have indefinite lives (primarily customer lists and non-network internal-use software) are amortized
over their useful lives and reviewed for impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets  (SFAS No. 144), whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. If any indications were present, we would test for recoverability by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the net undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated from the asset. If those
net undiscounted cash flows do not exceed the carrying amount (i.e., the asset is not recoverable), we would perform the next step, which is to determine the fair value of the asset and record an impairment, if any. We reevaluate the useful life
determinations for these intangible assets each reporting period to determine whether events and circumstances warrant a revision in their remaining useful lives.      For information related to the carrying amount of goodwill by segment, wireless licenses and other intangible assets, as well as the major components and average useful lives of our other acquired intangible assets,
see Note 4.       Fair Value Measurements       In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS No. 157). SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and establishes a hierarchy that categorizes and
prioritizes the sources to be used to estimate fair value. SFAS No. 157 also expands financial statement disclosures about fair value measurements. Under SFAS No. 157, fair value is defined as an exit price, representing the amount that
would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. SFAS 157 also establishes a three-tier hierarchy for inputs used in measuring fair value, which prioritizes the inputs used in
the valuation methodologies in measuring fair value:      Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
     Level 2 - Observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities      Level 3 - No observable pricing inputs in the market      Financial assets and financial liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurements. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value
measurements requires judgment, and may affect the valuation of the assets and liabilities being measured and their placement within the fair value hierarchy.   

On February 12, 2008, FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. FAS 157-2,  Effective Date of FASB
Statement No. 157  (FSP 157-2), which delays the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for one year for all nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except those that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial
statements on a recurring basis. We elected a partial deferral of SFAS No. 157 under the provisions of FSP 157-2 related to the measurement of fair value used when evaluating goodwill, other intangible assets, wireless licenses and other
long-lived assets for impairment and valuing asset retirement obligations and liabilities for exit or disposal activities. On October 10, 2008, the FASB issued FSP 157-3,  Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for
That Asset Is Not Active , (FSP 157-3), which clarifies application of SFAS No. 157 in a market that is not active. FSP 157-3 was effective upon issuance, including prior periods for which financial statements have not been issued. The
impact of partially adopting SFAS No. 157 on January 1, 2008 and the related FSPs 157-2 and 157-3 was not material to our financial statements.       SFAS No. 159       SFAS No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  
Including an Amendment of SFAS No. 115  (SFAS No. 159), permits but does not require us to measure financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has
been elected are reported in earnings. As we did not elect to fair value any of our financial instruments under the provisions of SFAS No. 159, our adoption of this statement effective January 1, 2008 did not have an impact on our
consolidated financial statements.       Income Taxes       Verizon and its domestic subsidiaries file a consolidated federal income tax return.      Deferred income taxes are provided for
temporary differences in the bases between financial statement and income tax assets and liabilities. Deferred income taxes are recalculated annually at rates then in effect. We record valuation allowances to reduce our deferred tax assets
to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized.     Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48,
 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (FIN 48), which requires the use of a two-step approach for recognizing and measuring tax benefits taken or expected to be taken in a tax return and disclosures regarding uncertainties in income
tax positions. The first step is recognition: we determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits
of the position. In evaluating whether a tax position has met the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, we presume that the position will be examined by the appropriate taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. The
second step is measurement: a tax position that meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold is measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. The tax position is measured at the largest amount of
benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Differences between tax positions taken in a tax return and amounts recognized in the financial statements will generally result in one or more of the
following: an increase in a liability for income taxes payable, a reduction of an income tax refund receivable, a reduction in a deferred tax asset, or an increase in a deferred tax liability.      As a result of the implementation of FIN 48, we recorded adjustments to liabilities that resulted in a net $79 million increase in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits with an
offsetting reduction to reinvested earnings as of January 1, 2007. The implementation of FIN 48 also resulted in adjustments to prior acquisitions accounted for under purchase accounting, resulting in a reduction in the liability for tax
contingencies in the amount of $635 million and corresponding reductions to goodwill and wireless licenses of $100 million and $535 million, respectively. The implementation impact included a reduction in deferred income taxes of approximately
$3 billion, offset with a similar increase in Other liabilities as of January 1, 2007.      FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. FAS
13-2,  Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged Lease Transaction  (FSP 13-2), requires that changes in the projected timing of income tax cash flows generated by
a leveraged lease transaction be recognized as a gain or loss in the year in which the change occurs. We adopted FSP 13-2 effective January 1, 2007. The cumulative effect of initially adopting FSP 13-2 was a reduction to reinvested earnings of
$55 million, after-tax.       Stock-Based Compensation       Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment  (SFAS No. 123(R)) utilizing the modified prospective method. SFAS No. 123(R) requires the measurement of
stock-based compensation expense based on the fair value of the award on the date of grant. Under the modified prospective method, the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) apply to all awards granted or modified after the date of adoption. The impact
to Verizon resulted from the Domestic Wireless segment, for which we recorded a $42 million cumulative effect of accounting change as of January 1, 2006, net of taxes and after minority interest, to recognize the effect of initially measuring
the outstanding liability for Value Appreciation Rights (VARs) granted to Domestic Wireless employees at fair value utilizing a Black-Scholes model.   

Foreign Currency Translation       The functional currency of our foreign operations is generally the local currency. For these foreign entities, we translate income statement amounts at average exchange rates for the period, and we translate assets
and liabilities at end-of-period exchange rates. We record these translation adjustments in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, a separate component of Shareowners  Investment, in our consolidated balance sheets. We report exchange gains and
losses on intercompany foreign currency transactions of a long-term nature in Accumulated other comprehensive loss. Other exchange gains and losses are reported in income.       Employee Benefit Plans       Pension and postretirement health care and life insurance benefits earned
during the year as well as interest on projected benefit obligations are accrued currently. Prior service costs and credits resulting from changes in plan benefits are amortized over the average remaining service period of the employees expected to
receive benefits. Expected return on plan assets is determined by applying the return on assets assumption to the market-related value of assets.      As of July 1, 2006, Verizon management employees no longer earn pension benefits or earn service towards the company retiree medical subsidy (see Note 15).      In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans   an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and
132(R)  (SFAS No. 158). Effective December 31, 2006, SFAS No. 158 requires the recognition of a defined benefit postretirement plan s funded status as either an asset or liability on the balance sheet.
SFAS No. 158 also requires the immediate recognition of the unrecognized actuarial gains and losses and prior service costs and credits that arise during the period as a component of Other accumulated comprehensive loss, net of applicable
income taxes. We adopted SFAS No. 158 effective December 31, 2006, which resulted in a net decrease to shareowners  investment of $7,409 million. This included a net increase in pension obligations of $2,007 million, an
increase in Other Postretirement Benefits Obligations of $10,828 million and an increase in Other Employee Benefit Obligations of $31 million, offset by an increase in deferred taxes of $5,457 million. Additionally, plan assets are measured at fair
value as of the Company s year-end.       Derivative Instruments       We have entered into derivative transactions to manage our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. We employ risk management strategies which may include the
use of a variety of derivatives including cross currency swaps, foreign currency forwards and collars, equity options, interest rate and commodity swap agreements and interest rate locks. We do not hold derivatives for trading purposes.   
  In accordance with SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  (SFAS No. 133) and related amendments
and interpretations, we measure all derivatives, including derivatives embedded in other financial instruments, at fair value and recognize them as either assets or liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. Changes in the fair values of
derivative instruments not qualifying as hedges or any ineffective portion of hedges are recognized in earnings in the current period. Changes in the fair values of derivative instruments used effectively as fair value hedges are recognized in
earnings, along with changes in the fair value of the hedged item. Changes in the fair value of the effective portions of cash flow hedges are reported in other comprehensive income (loss) and recognized in earnings when the hedged item is
recognized in earnings.   

Recent Accounting Pronouncements       In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS No. 132 (R)-1,  Employers  Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets  (FSP 132 (R)-1). FSP 132 (R)-1 requires Verizon, as plan sponsor, to
provide improved disclosures about plan assets, including categories of plan assets, nature and amount of concentrations of risk and disclosure about fair value measurements of plan assets, similar to those required by SFAS
No. 157.  FAS 132 (R)-1 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009. We do not expect that the adoption of FSP 132 (R)-1 will have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.   
  In April 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 142-3,  Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets  (FSP 142-3). FSP 142-3 removes the
requirement under SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  to consider whether an intangible asset can be renewed without substantial cost or material modifications to the existing terms and conditions, and replaces it with a
requirement that an entity consider its own historical experience in renewing similar arrangements, or a consideration of market participant assumptions in the absence of historical experience. FSP 142-3 also requires entities to disclose
information that enables users of financial statements to assess the extent to which the expected future cash flows associated with the asset are affected by the entity s intent and/or ability to renew or extend the arrangement. We were
required to adopt FSP 142-3 effective January 1, 2009 on a prospective basis. The adoption of FSP 142-3 on January 1, 2009 did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements.      In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,  Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities   an amendment of FASB
Statement No. 133 , (SFAS No. 161). This statement requires additional disclosures for derivative instruments and hedging activities that include how and why an entity uses derivatives, how these instruments and the related hedged items
are accounted for under SFAS No. 133 and related interpretations, and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect the entity s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. SFAS No. 161 is effective for
financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008. The adoption of SFAS No. 161 on January 1, 2009 did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements.      In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R),  Business Combinations , (SFAS No. 141(R)), to replace SFAS No. 141,  Business
Combinations . SFAS No. 141(R) requires the use of the acquisition method of accounting, defines the acquirer, establishes the acquisition date and broadens the scope to all transactions and other events in which one entity obtains control
over one or more other businesses. This statement is effective for business combinations or transactions entered into for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008. Upon the adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) we will be required to
expense certain transaction costs and related fees associated with business combinations that were previously capitalized. This will result in additional expenses being recognized relating to the 2009 closing of the Alltel transaction. In addition,
with the adoption of FAS 141(R) changes to valuation allowances for deferred income tax assets and adjustments to unrecognized tax benefits generally will be recognized as adjustments to income tax expense rather than goodwill.      In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements   an amendment of ARB
No. 51 , (SFAS No. 160). SFAS No. 160 establishes accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the retained interest and gain or loss when a subsidiary is deconsolidated. This statement
is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008 which will be applied prospectively, except for the presentation and disclosure requirements which will be applied retrospectively for all
periods presented. Upon the initial adoption of this statement, we will change the classification and presentation of Noncontrolling Interest in our financial statements, which we currently refer to as minority interest. Additionally, we conduct
certain business operations in certain markets through non-wholly owned entities. Any changes in these ownership interests may be required to be measured at fair value and recognized as a gain or loss, if any, in earnings. SFAS No. 160 will
also result in a lower effective income tax rate for the Company due to the inclusion of income attributable to noncontrolling interest in income before the provision for income taxes. However, the income tax provision will not be adjusted as a
result of SFAS No. 160.   

Acquisitions         
     Alltel Corporation       On June 5, 2008, Verizon Wireless entered into an agreement and plan of merger with Alltel and its controlling stockholder, Atlantis Holdings LLC, an affiliate of private investment firms TPG Capital and GS
Capital Partners, to acquire 100% of the equity of Alltel in an all-cash merger. After satisfying all closing conditions, including receiving the required regulatory approvals, Verizon Wireless closed the acquisition on January 9, 2009 and paid
approximately $5.9 billion for the equity of Alltel. Immediately prior to the closing, the Alltel debt associated with the transaction, net of cash, was approximately $22.2 billion. Alltel provides wireless voice and advanced data services to
residential and business customers in 34 states.      We expect to experience substantial operational benefits from the Alltel acquisition,
including additional combined overall cost savings from reduced roaming costs by moving more traffic to our own network, reduced network-related costs from the elimination of duplicate facilities, consolidation of platforms, efficient traffic
consolidation, and reduced overall expenses relating to advertising, overhead and headcount. We expect reduced overall combined capital expenditures as a result of greater economies of scale and the rationalization of network assets. We also
anticipate that the use of the same technology platform will enable us to rapidly integrate Alltel s operations with ours while enabling a seamless transition for customers.      The Alltel acquisition will be accounted for as a business combination under SFAS No. 141(R). While Verizon Wireless has commenced the appraisals necessary to assess the fair values of the
tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the amounts of assets and liabilities arising from contingencies, the fair value of noncontrolling interests, and the amount of goodwill to be recognized as of the acquisition date,
the initial purchase price allocation is not yet available.      On June 10, 2008, in connection with the agreement to acquire Alltel,
Verizon Wireless purchased from third parties $5.0 billion aggregate principal amount of debt obligations of certain subsidiaries of Alltel for approximately $4.8 billion, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The maturity dates of these obligations
range from 2015 to 2017. Verizon Wireless s investment in Alltel debt obligations is classified as available-for-sale and is included in Other investments in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2008.       Alltel Divestiture Markets       As a condition of the
regulatory approvals by the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) and the FCC that were required to complete the Alltel acquisition, Verizon Wireless will divest overlapping properties in 105 operating markets in 24 states (the Alltel
Divestiture Markets). These markets consist primarily of Alltel operations, but also include the pre-merger operations of Verizon Wireless in four markets as well as operations in Southern Minnesota and Western Kansas that were acquired
from Rural Cellular Corporation (Rural Cellular). As a result of these divestiture requirements, Verizon Wireless has placed the licenses and assets in the Alltel Divestiture Markets in a management trust that will continue to operate the markets
under their current brands until they are sold.       Repayment of Alltel Debt and New Borrowings       On December 19, 2008, Verizon Wireless and Verizon Wireless Capital LLC, as the borrowers, entered into the $17.0 billion credit facility (Bridge Facility) with Bank of America, N.A., as
Administrative Agent. On December 31, 2008, the Bridge Facility was reduced to $12.5 billion. As of December 31, 2008, there were no amounts outstanding under this facility.      On January 9, 2009, immediately prior to the closing of the Alltel acquisition, we borrowed $12,350 million under the Bridge Facility in order to complete the acquisition of Alltel and repay
certain of Alltel s outstanding debt. The remaining commitments under the Bridge Facility were terminated. The Bridge Facility has a maturity date of January 8, 2010. Interest on borrowings under the Bridge Facility is calculated based on
the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) for the applicable period, the level of borrowings on specified dates and a margin that is determined by reference to our long-term credit rating issued by S P. If the aggregate outstanding principal
amount under the Bridge Facility is greater than $6.0 billion on July 8th, 2009 (the 180th day after the closing of the Alltel acquisition), we are required to repay $3.0 billion on that date (less the amount of specified mandatory or optional
prepayments that have been made as of that date). The Bridge Facility includes a requirement to maintain a certain leverage ratio. We are required to prepay indebtedness under the Bridge Facility with the net cash proceeds of specified asset sales,
issuances and sales of equity and incurrences of borrowed money indebtedness, subject to certain exceptions.      On February 4, 2009,
Verizon Wireless and Verizon Wireless Capital LLC co-issued a private placement of $3,500 million of 5.55% notes due 2014 and $750 million of 5.25% notes due 2012, resulting in cash proceeds of $4,211 million, net of discounts and issuance costs.
The net proceeds from the sale of these notes were used to repay a portion of the borrowings outstanding under the Bridge Facility.      After
the completion of the Alltel acquisition and repayments of Alltel debt, including repayments completed through January 28, 2009, approximately $2.5 billion of Alltel debt that is owed to third parties remained outstanding.   

Rural Cellular Corporation       On August 7, 2008, Verizon Wireless acquired 100% of the outstanding common stock and redeemed all of the preferred stock of Rural Cellular in a cash transaction. Rural Cellular was a wireless communications
service provider operating under the trade name of  Unicel,  focusing primarily on rural markets in the United States. Verizon Wireless believes that the acquisition will further enhance its network coverage in markets adjacent to its
existing service areas and will enable Verizon Wireless to achieve operational benefits through realizing synergies in reduced roaming and other operating expenses. Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, Verizon Wireless paid Rural
Cellular s common shareholders $728 million in cash ($45 per share). Additionally, all classes of Rural Cellular s preferred shareholders received cash in the aggregate amount of $571 million.      The consolidated financial statements include the results of Rural Cellular s operations from the date the acquisition closed. Had this acquisition
been consummated on January 1, 2008 or 2007, the results of Rural Cellular s acquired operations would not have had a significant impact on our consolidated income statement. In connection with the acquisition, Verizon Wireless assumed
$1.5 billion of Rural Cellular s debt. This debt was redeemed on September 5, 2008, using proceeds from new debt borrowings by Verizon Wireless (see Note 10). The aggregate value of the net assets acquired was $1.3 billion based on the
cash consideration, as well as closing and other direct acquisition-related costs of approximately $12 million.      In accordance with SFAS
No. 141, the cost of the acquisition was preliminarily allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair values as of the close of the acquisition, with the amounts exceeding the fair value being recorded as goodwill.
As the values of certain assets and liabilities are preliminary in nature, they are subject to adjustment as additional information is obtained. The valuations will be finalized within 12 months of the close of the acquisition. When the valuations
are finalized, any changes to the preliminary valuation of assets acquired or liabilities assumed may result in adjustments to the fair value of the identifiable intangible assets acquired and goodwill.      The following table summarizes the preliminary allocation of the acquisition cost to the assets acquired, including cash acquired of $42 million, and
liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date and adjustments made thereto during the three months ended December 31, 2008:       
    Included in Other acquired assets are $490 million of assets that have been divested pursuant to
the exchange agreement with AT T, as described below. Adjustments were primarily related to ongoing revisions to preliminary valuations of wireless licenses and other tangible and intangible assets acquired that were subsequently divested to
AT T, and revised estimated tax bases of acquired assets and liabilities.      Wireless licenses acquired have an indefinite life, and
accordingly, are not subject to amortization. The customer relationships are being amortized using an accelerated method over 6 years, and other intangibles are being amortized on a straight-line basis over 12 months. Goodwill of approximately $115
million is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.       Divestiture Markets and Exchange Agreements with AT T       As part of its regulatory approval for the Rural Cellular acquisition, the FCC and DOJ required the divestiture of six operating markets, including all of
Rural Cellular s operations in Vermont and New York as well as its operations in Okanogan and Ferry, WA (the Divestiture Markets).      On
December 22, 2008, Verizon Wireless completed an exchange with AT T. Pursuant to the terms of the exchange agreement, as amended, AT T received the assets relating to the Divestiture Markets and a cellular license for part of the
Madison, KY market. In exchange, Verizon Wireless received cellular operating markets in Madison and Mason, KY and 10 MHz PCS licenses in Las Vegas, NV, Buffalo, NY, Erie, PA, Sunbury-Shamokin, PA and Youngstown, OH. Verizon Wireless also received
AT T s minority interests in three entities in which Verizon Wireless holds interests plus a cash payment. The preliminary aggregate value of properties exchanged was approximately $500 million. There was no gain or loss recognized on the
exchange. In addition, subject to FCC approval, Verizon Wireless will acquire PCS licenses in Franklin, NY (except Franklin county) and the entire state of Vermont from AT T in a separate cash transaction that is expected to close in the first
half of 2009.   

Other Acquisitions       In July 2007, Verizon acquired a security-services firm for $435 million, primarily resulting in goodwill of $343 million and other intangible assets of $81 million. This acquisition was made to enhance our managed
information security services to large business and government customers worldwide. This acquisition was integrated into the Wireline segment.      In connection with the 2006 acquisition of MCI, Inc. (MCI), we recorded certain severance and severance-related costs and contract termination costs associated with the merger, pursuant to Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 95-3,
 Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination . At December 31, 2007, there was approximately $36 million remaining for these obligations which were substantially resolved during 2008. During 2008, 2007 and
2006, we recorded pretax charges of $172 million ($107 million after-tax), $178 million ($112 million after-tax) and $232 million ($146 million after-tax), respectively, primarily related to the MCI acquisition that were comprised mainly of systems
integration activities.       

Discontinued Operations, Extraordinary Item
and Other Dispositions     
     Discontinued Operations        Telecomunicaciones de Puerto Rico, Inc.       On March 30, 2007, we completed the sale of our 52%
interest in Telecomunicaciones de Puerto Rico, Inc. (TELPRI) and received gross proceeds of approximately $980 million. The sale resulted in a pretax gain of $120 million ($70 million after-tax). Verizon contributed $100 million ($65 million
after-tax) of the proceeds to the Verizon Foundation.       Verizon Dominicana C. por A.       On December 1, 2006, we closed the sale of Verizon Dominicana C. por A (Verizon Dominicana). The transaction resulted in net pretax cash proceeds of
$2,042 million, net of a purchase price adjustment of $373 million. The U.S. taxes that became payable and were recognized at the time the transaction closed exceeded the $30 million pretax gain on the sale resulting in an overall after-tax
loss of $541 million.       Verizon Information Services       In October 2006, we announced our intention to spin-off our domestic print and Internet yellow pages directories publishing operations, which have been organized into a newly formed company known as Idearc Inc. On
October 18, 2006, the Verizon Board of Directors declared a dividend consisting of 1 share of the newly formed company for each 20 shares of Verizon owned. In making its determination to effect the spin-off, Verizon s Board of Directors
considered, among other things, that the spin-off may allow each company to separately focus on its core business, which may facilitate the potential expansion and growth of Verizon and the newly formed company, and allow each company to determine
its own capital structure.      On November 17, 2006, we completed the spin-off of our domestic print and Internet yellow pages
directories business. Cash was paid for fractional shares. The distribution of common stock of the newly formed company to our shareowners was considered a tax free transaction for us and for our shareowners, except for the cash payments for
fractional shares which were generally taxable.      At the time of the spin-off, the exercise price and number of shares of Verizon common
stock underlying options to purchase shares of Verizon common stock, restricted stock units (RSU s) and performance stock units (PSU s) were adjusted pursuant to the terms of the applicable Verizon equity incentive plans, taking into
account the change in the value of Verizon common stock as a result of the spin-off.      In connection with the spin-off, Verizon received
approximately $2 billion in cash from the proceeds of loans under a term loan facility of the newly formed company and transferred to the newly formed company debt obligations in the aggregate principal amount of approximately $7.1 billion thereby
reducing Verizon s outstanding debt at that time. We incurred pretax charges of approximately $117 million ($101 million after-tax), including debt retirement costs, costs associated with accumulated vested benefits of employees of the newly
formed company, investment banking fees and other transaction costs related to the spin-off, which are included in discontinued operations.      In accordance with SFAS No. 144 we have classified TELPRI, Verizon Dominicana and our former domestic print and Internet yellow page directories publishing operations as discontinued operations in the consolidated financial statements
for all periods presented through the date of the divestiture or spin-off.   

Income from discontinued operations, net of tax, presented in the consolidated statements of income
included the following:       
     Extraordinary Item        Compa  a An nima Nacional Tel fonos de Venezuela (CANTV)       In January 2007, the Bolivarian
Republic of Venezuela (the Republic) declared its intent to nationalize certain companies, including CANTV. On February 12, 2007, we entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Republic, which provided that the Republic offer to
purchase all of the equity securities of CANTV, including our 28.5% interest, through public tender offers in Venezuela and the United States. Under the terms of the MOU, the prices in the tender offers would be adjusted downward to reflect any
dividends declared and paid subsequent to February 12, 2007. During 2007, the tender offers were completed and Verizon received an aggregate amount of approximately $572 million, which included $476 million from the tender offers as well as $96
million of dividends declared and paid subsequent to the MOU. During 2007, based upon our investment balance in CANTV, we recorded an extraordinary loss of $131 million, including taxes of $38 million.       Other Dispositions        Telephone Access Lines Spin-off
      On January 16, 2007, we announced a definitive agreement with FairPoint Communications, Inc. (FairPoint) providing for Verizon to
establish a separate entity for its local exchange and related business assets in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont, spin-off that new entity into a newly formed company, known as Northern New England Spinco Inc. (Spinco), to Verizon s
shareowners, and immediately merge it with and into FairPoint.      On March 31, 2008, we completed the spin-off of the shares of Spinco
to Verizon shareowners and the merger of Spinco with FairPoint, resulting in Verizon shareowners collectively owning approximately 60 percent of FairPoint common stock. FairPoint issued approximately 53.8 million shares of FairPoint common
stock to Verizon shareowners in the merger, and Verizon shareowners received one share of FairPoint common stock for every 53.0245 shares of Verizon common stock they owned as of March 7, 2008. FairPoint paid cash in lieu of any fraction of a
share of FairPoint common stock.      On April 1, 2008, the number of shares of restricted stock units (RSUs) and performance stock units
(PSUs) previously issued by Verizon were adjusted pursuant to the terms of the applicable Verizon equity incentive plans, taking into account the change in the value of Verizon common stock as a result of the spin-off.      We also entered into other agreements that defined responsibility for obligations arising before or that may arise after the spin-off, including, among
others, obligations relating to Verizon employees whose primary duties relate to Spinco s business, certain transition services and taxes. In general, the agreements governed the exchange of services between us and FairPoint through January
2009 at specified cost-based or commercial rates.      As a result of the spin-off, our net debt was reduced by approximately $1.4 billion. The
consolidated income statements for the periods presented include the results of operations of the local exchange and related business assets in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont through March 31, 2008, the date of completion of the spin-off. The
consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2008 reflects the spin-off as of March 31, 2008, which increased shareowners  investment by approximately $16 million, and included approximately $79 million ($44 million after-tax)
related to defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans, which is reflected as a reduction to the beginning balance of Accumulated other comprehensive loss.      During 2008, we recorded pretax charges of $103 million ($81 million after-tax) for costs incurred related to the separation of the wireline facilities and operations in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont from Verizon
at the closing of the transaction, as well as for professional advisory and legal fees in connection with this transaction. During 2007, we recorded pretax charges of $84 million ($80 million after-tax) for costs incurred related to the separation
of the wireline facilities and operations in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont.   

Wireless Licenses, Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets     
     Wireless Licenses       Changes in the carrying amount of wireless licenses are as follows:       
    As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, $12.4 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively, of wireless
licenses were not in service.      During 2007, Other, net primarily included the impact of adopting FIN 48 (see Note 1) of $535 million.      On March 20, 2008, the FCC announced the results of Auction 73 of wireless spectrum licenses in the 700 MHz band. We were the successful bidder for
twenty-five 12 MHz licenses in the A-Block frequency, seventy-seven 12 MHz licenses in the B-Block frequency and seven 22 MHz licenses (nationwide with the exception of Alaska) in the C-Block frequency, with an aggregate bid price of $9,363 million.
We have made all required payments to the FCC for these licenses. The FCC granted us these licenses on November 26, 2008.       Goodwill    
  Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill are as follows:       
    Reclassifications and adjustments to goodwill include the impact of adopting FIN 48 (see Note 1)
of $100 million as of January 1, 2007, as well as to reflect revised estimated tax bases of acquired assets and liabilities during 2008 and 2007.       Other Intangible Assets       The following table displays the details of other intangible assets:       

Customer lists and Other at December 31, 2008 include $198 million related to the Rural Cellular
acquisition. Amortization expense was $1,383 million, $1,341 million, and $1,423 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively and is estimated to be $1,430 million in 2009, $1,139 million in 2010, $934 million in
2011, $713 million in 2012 and $552 million in 2013.      During 2008, we entered into an agreement to acquire a non-exclusive license (the IP
License) to a portfolio of intellectual property owned by an entity formed for the purpose of acquiring and licensing intellectual property. We paid an initial fee of $100 million for the IP License, which is included in Other intangible assets and
is being amortized over the expected useful lives of the licensed intellectual property. In addition, we executed a subscription agreement (with a capital commitment of $250 million, of which approximately $214 million is remaining to be funded at
December 31, 2008, as required through 2012) to become a member in a limited liability company (the LLC) formed by the same entity for the purpose of acquiring and licensing additional intellectual property. In connection with this investment,
we will receive non-exclusive license rights to certain intellectual property acquired by the LLC for an annual license fee.       

Marketable
Securities and Other Investments         
    We have investments in marketable securities which are considered  available-for-sale 
under the provisions of SFAS No. 115. These investments have been included in our consolidated balance sheets in Short-term investments, Other investments, Investments in unconsolidated businesses and Other assets.       Investment Impairment Charge       During 2008, we
recorded a pretax charge of $48 million ($31 million after-tax) related to an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value of our investments in certain marketable securities.      The following table shows certain summarized information related to our investments in marketable securities:       
    Our short-term investments are primarily bonds and mutual funds.      Certain other investments in securities that we hold are not adjusted to market values because those values are not readily determinable and/or the
securities are not marketable. We do, however, adjust the carrying values of these securities in situations where we believe declines in value below cost were other-than-temporary. The carrying values for investments not adjusted to market value
were $28 million at December 31, 2008 and $15 million at December 31, 2007.   

Plant,
Property and Equipment         
    The following table displays the details of plant, property and equipment, which is stated at cost:       
     Verizon Center Relocation, Net       During 2006, we recorded pretax charges of $184 million ($118 million after-tax) in connection with the relocation of employees and business operations to Verizon Center located in Basking
Ridge, New Jersey.       

Investments in Unconsolidated Businesses         
    Our investments in unconsolidated businesses are comprised of the following:       
    Dividends and repatriations of foreign earnings received from these investees amounted to $779
million in 2008, $2,571 million in 2007 and $42 million in 2006.       Equity Method Investments        Vodafone Omnitel       Vodafone Omnitel is the second
largest wireless communications company in Italy. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, our investment in Vodafone Omnitel included goodwill of $1,105 million and $1,154 million, respectively. During 2008 and 2007, Verizon received a net distribution
from Vodafone Omnitel of approximately $670 million and $2,100 million, respectively. As a result, in 2007 we recorded $610 million of foreign and domestic taxes and expenses specifically relating to our share of Vodafone Omnitel s
distributable earnings.   

Other Equity Investees       Verizon has limited partnership investments in entities that invest in affordable housing projects, for which Verizon provides funding as a limited partner and receives tax deductions and tax credits based on its
partnership interests. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, Verizon had equity investments in these partnerships of $761 million and $637 million, respectively. Verizon currently adjusts the carrying value of these investments for any losses incurred
by the limited partnerships through earnings.      The remaining investments include wireless partnerships in the U.S. and other smaller
domestic and international investments.       Cost Method Investments       Some of our cost investments are carried at their current market value. Other cost investments are carried at their original cost, except in cases where we have determined that a decline in the estimated market value
of an investment is other-than-temporary.       

Minority
Interest         
    Minority interests in equity of subsidiaries were as follows:       
     Wireless Joint Venture       The wireless joint venture was formed in April 2000 in connection with the combination of the U.S. wireless operations and interests of Verizon and Vodafone. The wireless joint venture operates as Verizon Wireless.
Verizon owns a controlling 55% interest in Verizon Wireless and Vodafone owns the remaining 45%.      Under the terms of an investment
agreement, Vodafone had the right to require Verizon Wireless to purchase up to an aggregate of $20 billion worth of Vodafone s interest in Verizon Wireless at designated times (put windows) at its then fair market value, not to exceed $10
billion in any one put window. The last of these put windows opened on June 10 and closed on August 9 in 2007. Vodafone did not exercise its right during this period and no longer has any right to require the purchase of any of its
interest in Verizon Wireless.       Cellular Partnerships and Other       In August 2002, Verizon Wireless and Price Communications Corp. (Price) combined Price s wireless business with a portion of Verizon Wireless. The resulting limited partnership, Verizon Wireless of the East LP
(VZ East), is controlled and managed by Verizon Wireless. In exchange for its contributed assets, Price received a limited partnership interest in VZ East which was exchangeable into the common stock of Verizon Wireless if an initial public offering
of that stock occurred, or into the common stock of Verizon on the fourth anniversary of the asset contribution date. On August 15, 2006, Verizon delivered 29.5 million shares of newly-issued Verizon common stock to Price valued at
$1,007 million in exchange for Price s limited partnership interest in VZ East.       Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements
      See Note 1 for a discussion of the pending implementation of SFAS No. 160.   

Leasing
Arrangements         
     As Lessor       We are the lessor in leveraged and direct financing lease agreements for commercial aircraft and power generating facilities, which comprise the majority of the portfolio along with telecommunications equipment, real
estate property, and other equipment. These leases have remaining terms up to 42 years as of December 31, 2008. Minimum lease payments receivable represent unpaid rentals, less principal and interest on third-party nonrecourse debt relating to
leveraged lease transactions. Since we have no general liability for this debt, which holds a senior security interest in the leased equipment and rentals, the related principal and interest have been offset against the minimum lease payments
receivable in accordance with GAAP. All recourse debt is reflected in our consolidated balance sheets.      Finance lease receivables, which
are included in Prepaid expenses and other and Other assets in our consolidated balance sheets are comprised of the following:       
    Accumulated deferred taxes arising from leveraged leases, which are included in Deferred Income
Taxes, amounted to $2,218 million at December 31, 2008 and $2,307 million at December 31, 2007.      The following table is a summary of the
components of income from leveraged leases:       
    The future minimum lease payments to be received from noncancelable leases, net of nonrecourse
loan payments related to leveraged leases, along with payments relating to direct financing leases for the periods shown at December 31, 2008, are as follows:       

As Lessee       We lease certain facilities and equipment for use in our operations under both capital and operating leases. Total rent expense from continuing operations under operating leases amounted to $1,835 million in 2008, $1,712 million in 2007 and
$1,608 million in 2006.      Amortization of capital leases is included in depreciation and amortization expense in the consolidated statements
of income. Capital lease amounts included in plant, property and equipment are as follows:       
    As of December 31, 2008, the total minimum sublease rentals to be received in the future
under noncancelable operating subleases was approximately $57 million.       

Debt 
        
     Debt Maturing Within One Year       Debt maturing within one year is as follows:       
    The weighted average interest rate for our commercial paper at December 31, 2008 and
December 31, 2007 was 2.9% and 4.6%, respectively.      Capital expenditures (primarily acquisition and construction of network assets)
are partially financed pending long-term financing through bank loans and the issuance of commercial paper payable within 12 months.      At
December 31, 2008, we had approximately $5,600 million of unused bank lines of credit which consisted of a three-year committed facility that expires in September 2009. In addition, at December 31, 2008, we had entered into a vendor
provided credit facility that provided $150 million of financing capacity. Certain of these lines of credit contain requirements for the payment of commitment fees.   

Long - Term Debt       Outstanding long-term debt obligations are as follows:       
     Notes Payable       In November 2008, Verizon issued $2,000 million of 8.75% notes due 2018 and $1,250 million of 8.95% notes due 2039, which resulted in cash proceeds of $3,189 million net of discount and issuance costs. In April 2008,
Verizon issued $1,250 million of 5.25% notes due 2013, $1,500 million of 6.10% notes due 2018, and $1,250 million of 6.90% notes due 2038, resulting in cash proceeds of $3,950 million, net of discounts and issuance costs. In February 2008, Verizon
issued $750 million of 4.35% notes due 2013, $1,500 million of 5.50% notes due 2018, and $1,750 million of 6.40% notes due 2038, resulting in cash proceeds of $3,953 million, net of discounts and issuance costs. In January 2008, Verizon utilized a
$239 million fixed rate vendor financing facility due 2010. During the first quarter of 2008, $1,000 million of Verizon Communications Inc. 4.0% notes matured and were repaid.      In April 2007, Verizon issued $750 million of 5.50% notes due 2017, $750 million of 6.25% notes due 2037, and $500 million of floating rate notes due 2009 resulting in cash proceeds of $1,977
million, net of discounts and issuance costs. In March 2007, Verizon issued $1,000 million of 13-month floating rate exchangeable notes with an original maturity of 2008. These notes were exchangeable periodically at the option of the note holder
into similar notes until 2017. The exchangeable notes were not exchanged and are now due April 2009. In February 2007, Verizon utilized a $425 million floating rate vendor financing facility due 2013.      In January 2007, we redeemed $1,580 million principal of the remaining outstanding floating rate notes due August 15, 2007, at a redemption price
equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest through the date of redemption. The total payment on the date of redemption was approximately $1,593 million. Approximately $1,600 million of other
borrowings were redeemed during 2007.      We recorded pretax charges of $26 million ($16 million after-tax) during the first quarter of 2006
resulting from the extinguishment of $5,665 million aggregate principal amount of long-term debt assumed in connection with the MCI merger.       Verizon
Wireless   Notes Payable and Other       Unless indicated, the following notes were co-issued or co-borrowed by Verizon Wireless and
Verizon Wireless Capital LLC. Verizon Wireless Capital LLC is a wholly owned subsidiary of Verizon Wireless. It is a limited liability company formed under the laws of Delaware on December 7, 2001 as a special purpose finance
subsidiary to facilitate the offering of debt securities of Verizon Wireless by acting as co-issuer. Other than the financing activities as a co-issuer of Verizon Wireless indebtedness, Verizon Wireless Capital LLC has no material assets,
operations or revenues. Verizon Wireless is jointly and severally liable with Verizon Wireless Capital LLC for these notes.      On
December 18, 2008, Verizon Wireless and Verizon Wireless Capital LLC, co-issued  650 million of 7.625% notes due 2011,  500 million of 8.750% notes due 2015 and  600 million of 8.875% notes due 2018. Concurrent with
these offerings, we entered into cross currency swaps to fix our future interest and principal payments in U.S. dollars as well as to exchange the proceeds from British Pound Sterling and Euros into U.S. dollars (see Note 11). The cash proceeds
of $2,410 million, net of discounts and issuance costs were used in connection with the Alltel acquisition on January 9, 2009 (see Note 2).   

On November 21, 2008, Verizon Wireless and Verizon Wireless Capital LLC co-issued a private
placement of $1,250 million of 7.375% notes due 2013 and $2,250 million of 8.500% notes due 2018 resulting in cash proceeds of $3,451 million net of discounts and issuance costs. The net proceeds from the sale of these notes were used in connection
with the Alltel acquisition on January 9, 2009 (see Note 2). The co-issuers are required to file a registration statement with respect to an offer to exchange these notes for a new issue of notes registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and
use their reasonable best efforts to cause the registration statement to be declared effective within 330 days after the closing of the offering of these notes.      On September 30, 2008, Verizon Wireless and Verizon Wireless Capital LLC entered into a $4,440 million Three-Year Term Loan Facility Agreement (Three-Year Term Facility) with Citibank, N.A., as Administrative
Agent, with a maturity date of September 30, 2011. Verizon Wireless borrowed $4,440 million under the Three-Year Term Facility in order to repay a portion of the 364-Day Credit Agreement as described below. Of the $4,440 million, $444 million
must be repaid at the end of the first year, $1,998 million at the end of the second year, and $1,998 million upon final maturity. Interest on borrowings under the Three-Year Term Facility is calculated based on the LIBOR rate for the
applicable period and a margin that is determined by reference to the long-term credit rating of Verizon Wireless issued by Standard   Poor s Rating Services and Moody s Investors Service (if Moody s subsequently determines
to provide a credit rating for the Three-Year Term Facility). Borrowings under the Three-Year Term Facility currently bear interest at a variable rate based on LIBOR plus 100 basis points. The Three-Year Term Facility includes a
requirement to maintain a certain leverage ratio.      On June 5, 2008, Verizon Wireless entered into a $7,550 million 364-Day Credit
Agreement with Morgan Stanley Senior Funding Inc. as Administrative Agent. During 2008, Verizon Wireless utilized this facility primarily to purchase the Alltel debt obligations acquired in the second quarter and pay fees and expenses incurred in
connection therewith, finance the acquisition of Rural Cellular and repay the outstanding Rural Cellular debt and pay fees and expenses incurred in connection therewith. During 2008, the borrowings under the 364-Day Credit Agreement were repaid.
     See Note 2 regarding the recent repayment of Alltel debt and related borrowings subsequent to December 31, 2008.       Telephone and Other Subsidiary Debt       During the
fourth quarter of 2008, $200 million of Verizon Northwest 5.55% notes, $250 million 6.9% notes and $250 million 5.65% notes of Verizon North Inc. matured and were repaid. During the second quarter of 2008, $100 million of Verizon California Inc.
7.0% notes and $250 million of Verizon New York Inc. 6.0% notes matured and were repaid. Additionally, during first half of 2008, $250 million of GTE Corporation 6.46% notes and $125 million of Verizon South Inc. 6.0% notes matured and were repaid.
     During the fourth quarter of 2007, Verizon New England Inc. redeemed previously guaranteed $480 million 7.0% debentures, Series B, issued
by Verizon New England Inc. due 2042 at par plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption dates. During the third quarter of 2007, $150 million Verizon Pennsylvania Inc. 7.375% notes matured and were repaid. During the second quarter of 2007,
$125 million Verizon New England Inc. 7.65% notes and the $225 million Verizon South Inc. 6.125% notes matured and were repaid. During the first quarter of 2007, $150 million GTE Southwest Inc. 6.23% notes and the $275 million Verizon California
Inc. 7.65% notes matured and were repaid. In addition, we redeemed $500 million of GTE Corporation 7.9% debentures due February 1, 2027 and $300 million Verizon South Inc. 7.0% debentures, Series F, due 2041 at par plus accrued and unpaid
interest to the redemption dates. During the first quarter of 2007, we recorded pretax charges of $28 million ($18 million after-tax) in connection with the early extinguishments of debt.       Guarantees       We guarantee the debt obligations of GTE
Corporation (but not the debt of its subsidiary or affiliate companies) that were issued and outstanding prior to July 1, 2003. As of December 31, 2008, $2,200 million principal amount of these obligations remained outstanding. Verizon
Communications Inc. and NYNEX Corporation are the joint and several co-obligors of the 20-Year 9.55% Debentures due 2010 previously issued by NYNEX on March 26, 1990. As of December 31, 2008, $47 million principal amount of this obligation
remained outstanding. NYNEX and GTE no longer issue public debt or file SEC reports.       Debt Covenants       We and our consolidated subsidiaries are in compliance with all of our debt covenants.       Maturities of Long-Term Debt       Maturities of long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2008 are as follows:

Financial
Instruments         
     Derivatives       The ongoing effect of SFAS No. 133 and related amendments and interpretations on our consolidated financial statements will be determined each period by several factors, including the specific hedging instruments
in place and their relationships to hedged items, as well as market conditions at the end of each period.       Interest Rate Risk Management    
  We have entered into domestic interest rate swaps to achieve a targeted mix of fixed and variable rate debt, where we principally receive fixed rates
and pay variable rates based on LIBOR. These swaps are designated as fair value hedges and hedge against changes in the fair value of our debt portfolio. We record the interest rate swaps at fair value in our balance sheet as assets and liabilities
and adjust debt for the change in its fair value due to changes in interest rates. During 2008, we entered into domestic interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, with a notional principal value of approximately $2 billion. The fair
value of our entire portfolio of interest rate swaps at December 31, 2008 included in Other assets and Long-term debt was $415 million.       Foreign
Exchange Risk Management       During 2008, we entered into cross currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges to exchange the net proceeds
from the December 18, 2008 Verizon Wireless and Verizon Wireless Capital LLC offering (see Note 10) from British Pound Sterling and Euros into U.S. dollars, to fix our future interest and principal payments in U.S. dollars as well as
mitigate the impact of foreign currency transaction gains or losses. We record these contracts at fair value and any gains or losses on the contract will, over time, offset the gains or losses on the underlying debt obligations.       Net Investment Hedges       During 2007, we entered into
foreign currency forward contracts to hedge a portion of our net investment in Vodafone Omnitel. Changes in fair value of these contracts due to Euro exchange rate fluctuations are recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive loss and partially
offset the impact of foreign currency changes on the value of our net investment. During 2008, our positions in these foreign currency forward contracts were settled. As of December 31, 2008, Accumulated other comprehensive loss includes
unrecognized losses of approximately $166 million ($108 million after-tax) related to these hedge contracts, which along with the unrealized foreign currency translation balance on the investment hedged, remain in Accumulated other comprehensive
loss until the investment is sold.       Concentrations of Credit Risk       Financial instruments that subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of temporary cash investments, short-term and long-term investments, trade receivables, certain notes receivable, including
lease receivables, and derivative contracts. Our policy is to deposit our temporary cash investments with major financial institutions. Counterparties to our derivative contracts are also major financial institutions. The financial institutions have
all been accorded high ratings by primary rating agencies. We limit the dollar amount of contracts entered into with any one financial institution and monitor our counterparties  credit ratings. We generally do not give or receive collateral on
swap agreements due to our credit rating and those of our counterparties. While we may be exposed to credit losses due to the nonperformance of our counterparties, we consider the risk remote and do not expect the settlement of these transactions to
have a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition.   

Fair Value
Measurements         
    The following table presents the balances of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
recurring basis as of December 31, 2008:       

(1)      
      quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities      

(2)      
      observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities

(3)      
      no observable pricing inputs in the market         A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balance of items measured at fair value using significant unobservable inputs as of December 31, 2008
is as follows:       

(dollars in millions)    
      
   Level 3    
 
    Balance at January 1, 2008   
      
  $  

Total gains (losses) (realized/unrealized):   

Included in earnings   

Included in other comprehensive loss   

Purchases, issuances and settlements   

4,767   
 
    Discount amortization included in earnings   

14   
 
    Transfers in (out) of Level 3   

Balance at December 31, 2008    
      
   $   
     4,781    

Short-term investments include a fund comprised of cash equivalents held in trust for the payment
of certain employee benefits and are classified as Level 2. These temporary cash investments are stated at fair value using matrix pricing as they are not actively traded in an established market. Short-term investments and Investments in
unconsolidated businesses also include equity securities, mutual funds, U.S. Treasuries, and obligations of the U.S. government, which are generally measured using quoted prices in active markets and are classified as Level 1.      Other investments are comprised of our investment in Alltel debt, which was acquired in June 2008, and is classified as Level 3. The fair value of the
investment in Alltel debt is based upon internally developed valuation techniques since the underlying obligations are not registered or traded in an active market. Upon closing of the Alltel acquisition (see Note 2), the investment in Alltel debt
became an intercompany loan that will be eliminated in consolidation.      Other assets are primarily comprised of domestic and foreign
corporate and government bonds. While quoted prices in active markets for certain of these debt securities are available, for some they are not. As permitted under SFAS No. 157, we use alternative matrix pricing as a practical expedient
resulting in our debt securities being classified as Level 2. Our derivative contracts, included in Other assets or Other liabilities, are primarily comprised of interest rate swaps, are valued using models based on readily observable market
parameters for all substantial terms of our derivative contracts and thus are classified within Level 2. As permitted by SFAS No. 157, we use mid-market pricing for fair value measurements of our derivative instruments.      The fair value of our short-term and long-term debt, excluding capital leases, is determined based on market quotes for similar terms and maturities or
future cash flows discounted at current rates. The fair value of our long-term and short-term debt, excluding capital leases, was $53,174 million and $32,380 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, as compared to the carrying value
of $51,562 million and $30,845 million, respectively at December 31, 2008 and 2007.   

Earnings Per Share and
Shareowners  Investment         
     Earnings Per Share       The following table is a reconciliation of the numerators and denominators used in computing earnings per common share:       

(dollars and shares in millions, except per share amounts)   
 
    Certain outstanding options to purchase shares were not included in the computation of diluted
earnings per common share because they were not dilutive, including approximately 158 million weighted-average shares during 2008, 170 million weighted-average shares during 2007 and 228 million weighted-average shares during 2006.
     The zero-coupon convertible notes were retired on May 15, 2006 and the exchangeable equity interest was converted on August 15,
2006 by issuing 29.5 million Verizon shares (see Note 8).       Shareowners  Investment       Our certificate of incorporation provides authority for the issuance of up to 250 million shares of Series Preferred Stock, $.10 par value, in one or more series, with such designations,
preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions as the Board of Directors may determine.      We are authorized to issue up to 4.25 billion
shares of common stock.      On February 7, 2008, the Board of Directors approved a share buy back program which authorized the repurchase
of up to 100 million shares of Verizon common stock terminating no later than the close of business on February 28, 2011. During 2008, 2007 and 2006, we repurchased approximately 37 million, 68 million and 50 million common
shares under programs previously authorized by the Board of Directors.   

Stock-Based Compensation 
        
    Refer to Note 1 for a discussion of the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), which was effective January 1, 2006.
      Verizon Communications Long Term Incentive Plan       The Verizon Communications Long Term Incentive Plan (the Plan), permits the granting of nonqualified stock options, incentive stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares, performance
share units and other awards. The maximum number of shares for awards is 207 million.       Restricted Stock Units       The Plan provides for grants of RSUs that generally vest at the end of the third year after the grant. The RSUs are classified as liability awards because
they will be paid in cash upon vesting. The RSU award liability is measured at its fair value at the end of each reporting period and, therefore, will fluctuate based on the performance of Verizon s stock. Dividend equivalent units are also
paid to participants at the time the RSU award is paid.      The following table summarizes Verizon s Restricted Stock Unit activity:       
     Performance Share Units       The Plan also provides for grants of PSUs that generally vest at the end of the third year after the grant. As defined by the Plan, the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors determines the number of PSUs
a participant earns based on the extent to which the corresponding goals have been achieved over the three-year performance cycle. All payments are subject to approval by the Human Resources Committee. The PSUs are classified as liability
awards because the PSU awards are paid in cash upon vesting. The PSU award liability is measured at its fair value at the end of each reporting period and, therefore, will fluctuate based on the price of Verizon s stock as well as performance
relative to the targets. Dividend equivalent units are also paid to participants at the time that the PSU award is determined and paid, and in the same proportion as the PSU award.   

The following table summarizes Verizon s Performance Share Unit activity:      
    As of December 31, 2008, unrecognized compensation expense related to the unvested portion of
Verizon s RSUs and PSUs was approximately $308 million and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately two years.       Verizon Wireless s Long-Term Incentive Plan       The 2000 Verizon Wireless Long-Term Incentive Plan (the Wireless Plan)
provides compensation opportunities to eligible employees and other participating affiliates of Verizon Wireless (the Partnership). The Wireless Plan provides rewards that are tied to the long-term performance of the Partnership. Under the Wireless
Plan, VARs were granted to eligible employees. As of December 31, 2008, all VARs were fully vested.      VARs reflect the change in the
value of the Partnership, as defined in the Wireless Plan, similar to stock options. Once VARs become vested, employees can exercise their VARs and receive a payment that is equal to the difference between the VAR price on the date of grant and the
VAR price on the date of exercise, less applicable taxes. VARs are fully exercisable three years from the date of grant with a maximum term of 10 years. All VARs are granted at a price equal to the estimated fair value of the Partnership, as defined
in the Wireless Plan, at the date of the grant.      With the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Partnership began estimating the fair value
of VARs granted using a Black-Scholes option valuation model. The following table summarizes the assumptions used in the model during 2008:       
    The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of the
measurement date. The expected term of the VARs granted was estimated using a combination of the simplified method historical experience, and management judgment. Expected volatility was based on a blend of the historical and implied volatility of
publicly traded peer companies for a period equal to the VARs expected life, ending on the measurement date, and calculated on a monthly basis.   

The following table summarizes the Value Appreciation Rights activity:       
     Stock-Based Compensation Expense       After-tax compensation expense for stock-based compensation related to RSUs, PSUs, and VARs described above included in net income as reported was $375 million, $750 million and $535 million for
2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.       Stock Options       The Verizon Long Term Incentive Plan provides for grants of stock options to employees at an option price per share of 100% of the fair market value of Verizon Stock on the date of grant. Each grant has a 10 year
life, vesting equally over a three year period, starting at the date of the grant. We have not granted new stock options since 2004.     The following table
summarizes Verizon s stock option activity:       
    The following table summarizes information about Verizon s stock options outstanding as of December 31,
2008:       
    The total intrinsic value for stock options outstanding was not significant as of
December 31, 2008. The total intrinsic value for stock options exercised was $147 million in 2007 and not significant in 2008 and 2006. The amount of cash received from the exercise of stock options was not significant in 2008,
$1,274 million in 2007 and $101 million in 2006, respectively. The related tax benefits were not significant. The after-tax compensation expense for stock options was not significant for 2007 and 2006. There was no stock option expense for
2008.   

Employee Benefits    
    We maintain non-contributory defined benefit pension plans for many of our employees. In addition,
we maintain postretirement health care and life insurance plans for our retirees and their dependents, which are both contributory and non-contributory and include a limit on the Company s share of cost for certain recent and future retirees.
We also sponsor defined contribution savings plans to provide opportunities for eligible employees to save for retirement on a tax-deferred basis. We use a measurement date of December 31 for our pension and postretirement health care and life
insurance plans.      Refer to Note 1 for a discussion of the adoption of SFAS No. 158, which was effective December 31, 2006.       Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits       Pension
and other postretirement benefits for many of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Modifications in benefits have been bargained from time to time, and we may also periodically amend the benefits in the management plans.
     As of June 30, 2006, Verizon management employees no longer earned pension benefits or earned service towards the company retiree
medical subsidy. In addition, new management employees hired after December 31, 2005 are not eligible for pension benefits and managers with less than 13.5 years of service as of June 30, 2006 are not eligible for company-subsidized
retiree healthcare or retiree life insurance benefits. Beginning July 1, 2006, management employees receive an increased company match on their savings plan contributions.      The following tables summarize benefit costs, as well as the benefit obligations, plan assets, funded status and rate assumptions associated with pension and postretirement health care and life
insurance benefit plans:       Obligations and Funded Status        

Changes in benefit obligations were caused by factors including changes in actuarial assumptions and settlements.
     The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $29,405 million and $31,343 million at December 31, 2008
and 2007, respectively.      Information for pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets follows:   
   
    During 2008, the decline in the fair value of pension assets increased the number of plans having
accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets as of December 31, 2008 compared to December 31, 2007.       Net Periodic Cost       The following table displays the details of net periodic pension and other postretirement costs:       
    Other pretax changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive
(income) loss are as follows:       

The estimated net loss and prior service cost for the defined benefit pension plans that will be
amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year are $114 million and $112 million, respectively. The estimated net loss and prior service cost for the defined benefit postretirement
plans that will be amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year are $238 million and $401 million, respectively.       Additional Information       As a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 158 in 2006, we no longer record
an additional minimum pension liability. In prior years, as a result of changes in interest rates and changes in investment returns, an adjustment to the additional minimum pension liability was required for a number of plans, as indicated below.
The adjustment in the liability was recorded as a charge or (credit) to Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, in shareowners  investment in the consolidated balance sheets. The Additional Minimum Pension Liability at
December 31, 2006, was reduced by $809 million, ($526 million after-tax) based on the final measurement just prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 158. The remaining $396 million, ($262 million after-tax), was reversed as a result of the
adoption of SFAS No. 158.       
     Assumptions       The weighted-average assumptions used in determining benefit obligations follow:       
    The weighted-average assumptions used in determining net periodic cost follow:       
    In order to project the long-term target investment return for the total portfolio, estimates are
prepared for the total return of each major asset class over the subsequent 10-year period, or longer. Those estimates are based on a combination of factors including the current market interest rates and valuation levels, consensus earnings
expectations, historical long-term risk premiums and value-added. To determine the aggregate return for the pension trust, the projected return of each individual asset class is then weighted according to the allocation to that investment area in
the trust s long-term asset allocation policy.      The assumed Health Care Cost Trend Rates follow:       
    A one-percentage-point change in the assumed health care cost trend rate would have the following effects:

Plan Assets        Pension Plans       The weighted-average asset allocations for the pension plans by asset category follow:       
    Equity securities include Verizon common stock of $87 million and $127 million at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Other assets include cash and cash equivalents (primarily held for the payment of benefits), private equity and investments in absolute return strategies.       Health Care and Life Plans       The weighted-average
asset allocations for the other postretirement benefit plans by asset category follow:       
    In our health care and life plans, there was not a significant amount of Verizon common stock held
at the end of 2008 and none in 2007.      Our portfolio strategy emphasizes a long-term equity orientation, significant global diversification,
the use of both public and private investments and professional financial and operational risk controls. Assets are allocated according to long-term risk and return estimates. Both active and passive management approaches are used depending on
perceived market efficiencies and various other factors.       Cash Flows       In 2008, we contributed $332 million to our qualified pension plans, $155 million to our nonqualified pension plans and $1,227 million to our other postretirement benefit plans. We estimate required qualified pension
plan contributions for 2009 to be approximately $300 million. We also anticipate approximately $120 million in contributions to our non-qualified pension plans and $1,770 million to our other postretirement benefit plans in 2009.       Estimated Future Benefit Payments       The benefit
payments to retirees, which reflect expected future service, are expected to be paid as follows:       

Savings Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plans       We maintain four leveraged employee stock ownership plans (ESOP). Only one plan currently has unallocated shares. We match a certain percentage of eligible employee contributions to the savings
plans with shares of our common stock from this ESOP. At December 31, 2008, the number of unallocated and allocated shares of common stock in this ESOP were 3 million and 68 million, respectively. All leveraged ESOP shares are
included in earnings per share computations.      Total savings plan costs were $683 million, $712 million, and $669 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.       Severance Benefits       The
following table provides an analysis of our severance liability recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 112,  Employers  Accounting for Postemployment Benefits  (SFAS No. 112):       
    The remaining severance liability is actuarially determined and includes the impact of the
activities described in   Severance, Pension and Benefit Related Charges   below. The 2008 expense includes charges for the involuntary separation of approximately 8,600 employees, including approximately 800 during the fourth quarter
of 2008 and 5,100 expected during 2009. The 2007 expense includes charges for the involuntary separation of 9,000 employees as described below.       Severance, Pension and Benefit Related Charges       During 2008, we recorded net pretax severance, pension and benefits charges
of $950 million ($588 million after-tax). This charge primarily included $586 million ($363 million after-tax) for workforce reductions in connection with the separation of approximately 8,600 employees and related charges; 3,500 of whom were
separated in the second half of 2008, with the remaining reductions expected to occur in 2009, in accordance with SFAS No. 112. Also included are net pretax pension settlement losses of $364 million ($225 million after-tax) related to employees
that received lump-sum distributions primarily resulting from our separation plans. These charges were recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 88,  Employers  Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and
for Termination Benefit s (SFAS No. 88), which requires that settlement losses be recorded once prescribed payment thresholds have been reached.      During the fourth quarter of 2007, we recorded charges of $772 million ($477 million after-tax) primarily in connection with workforce reductions of 9,000 employees and related charges, 4,000 of whom were separated in
the fourth quarter of 2007 with the remaining reductions occurring throughout 2008. In addition, we adjusted our actuarial assumptions for severance to align with future expectations.      During 2006, we recorded net pretax severance, pension and benefits charges of $425 million ($258 million after-tax). These charges included net pretax pension settlement losses of $56 million
($26 million after-tax) related to employees that received lump-sum distributions primarily resulting from our separation plans. These charges were recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 88. Also included are pretax charges of $369 million ($228
million after-tax) for employee severance and severance-related costs in connection with the involuntary separation of approximately 4,100 employees.       

Income
Taxes         
    The components of Income Before Provision for Income Taxes, Discontinued Operations, Extraordinary
Item and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change are as follows:       

The components of the provision for income taxes from continuing operations are as follows:       
    The following table shows the principal reasons for the difference between the effective income
tax rate and the statutory federal income tax rate:       
    The effective income tax rate is the provision for income taxes as a percentage of income from
continuing operations before the provision for income taxes. The effective income tax rate in 2008 was lower than 2007 primarily due to recording $610 million of foreign and domestic taxes and expenses in 2007 specifically relating to our share
of Vodafone Omnitel s distributable earnings. Verizon received net distributions from Vodafone Omnitel in April 2008 and December 2007 of approximately $670 million and $2,100 million, respectively.      The effective income tax rate in 2007 compared to 2006 was higher primarily due to taxes recorded in 2007 related to distributions from Vodafone Omnitel
as discussed above. The 2007 rate was also increased due to higher state taxes in 2007 as compared to 2006, as well as greater benefits from foreign operations in 2006 compared to 2007. These increases were partially offset by lower expenses
recorded for unrecognized tax benefits in 2007 as compared to 2006.      Deferred taxes arise because of differences in the book and tax bases
of certain assets and liabilities. Significant components of deferred tax are shown in the following table:       
    Employee benefits deferred tax assets include $10,344 million and $4,929 million at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, recognized in accordance with SFAS No. 158 (see Notes 1 and 15).   

At December 31, 2008, undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries indefinitely invested
outside of the United States amounted to approximately $800 million. We have not provided deferred taxes on these earnings because we intend that they will remain indefinitely invested outside of the United States. Determination of the amount of
unrecognized deferred taxes related to these undistributed earnings is not practical.      At December 31, 2008, we had tax loss and
credit carry forwards for income tax purposes of approximately $3,000 million. Of these tax loss and credit carry forwards, approximately $2,420 million will expire between 2009 and 2028 and approximately $580 million may be carried forward
indefinitely. The amount of tax loss and credit carry forwards reflected as a deferred tax asset above has been reduced by approximately $614 million and $661 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, due to federal and state tax law
limitations on utilization of net operating losses.      During 2008, the valuation allowance increased $51 million. Beginning January 1,
2009, due to the issuance of SFAS No. 141(R), the valuation allowance as of December 31, 2008, if recognized, will be reflected in income tax expense.       FASB Interpretation No. 48       FIN 48 prescribes the recognition, measurement and disclosure standards for uncertainties
in income tax positions. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balance of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:       
    Included in the total unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2008 and 2007 is $1,631
million and $1,245 million, respectively, that if recognized, would favorably affect the effective income tax rate. Of the $1,631 million at December 31, 2008, $383 million of unrecognized tax benefits are from a prior acquisition and pursuant
to SFAS No. 141(R), if recognized, would favorably affect the effective income tax rate.      We recognize any interest and penalties
accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. During 2008 we recognized a net after tax benefit in the income statement related to interest and penalties of approximately $55 million. We had approximately $538 million
(after-tax) and $598 million (after-tax) for the payment of interest and penalties accrued in the balance sheets at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively.      During the year ended December 31, 2007, we recognized approximately $175 million (after-tax) in the income statement for the payment of interest and penalties. We had approximately $598
million (after-tax) and $444 million (after-tax) for the payment of interest and penalties accrued in the balance sheet at December 31, 2007 and January 1, 2007, respectively.      Verizon or one of its subsidiaries files income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, and various state, local and foreign jurisdictions. The Company is generally no longer subject to
U.S. federal, state and local, or non-U.S. income tax examinations by tax authorities for years before 2004. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) will begin its examination of the Company s U.S. income tax returns for years 2004 through 2006 in
the first quarter of 2009. As a result of the anticipated resolution of various income tax audits within the next twelve months, we believe that it is reasonably possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits will decrease. An estimate of the
range of the possible change cannot be made until issues are further developed.   

Segment
Information              
     Reportable Segments       We have two reportable segments, which we operate and manage as strategic business units and organize by products and services. We previously measured and evaluated our reportable segments based on segment income.
Beginning in 2008, we measure and evaluate our reportable segments based on segment operating income, which is reflected in all periods presented. The use of segment operating income is consistent with the chief operating decision makers 
assessment of segment performance.      Corporate, eliminations and other includes unallocated corporate expenses, intersegment eliminations
recorded in consolidation, the results of other businesses such as our investments in unconsolidated businesses, lease financing, and other adjustments and gains and losses that are not allocated in assessing segment performance due to their
non-recurring or non-operational nature. Although such transactions are excluded from the business segment results, they are included in reported consolidated earnings. Gains and losses that are not individually significant are included in all
segment results, since these items are included in the chief operating decision makers  assessment of segment performance.      The below
reconciliation of segment operating revenues and expenses to consolidated operating revenues and expenses also include those items of a non-recurring or non-operational nature. We exclude from segment results the effects of certain items that
management does not consider in assessing segment performance, primarily because of their non-recurring or non-operational nature.      In
2008, we completed the spin-off of our local exchange and related business assets in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont. Accordingly, Wireline results from divested operations, including the impact of the non strategic assets sold during the first
quarter of 2007, have been reclassified to Corporate and Other and reflect comparable operating results. In 2007, we completed the sale of our 52% interest in TELPRI and our interest in CANTV. In 2006, we closed the sale of Verizon Dominicana.
Consequently, with these three transactions, we completed the disposition of our International segment. Also in 2006, we completed the spin-off of our Information Services segment which included our domestic print and Internet yellow pages
directories business. For further information concerning the disposition of the International and Information Services segments, see Note 3.      Our segments
and their principal activities consist of the following:       

Segment   
      
   Description    
 
     Domestic Wireless    
      
    Domestic Wireless s products and services include wireless voice, data services and other value-added services and equipment sales across the United
States.    

Wireline    
      
    Wireline s communications services include voice, Internet access, broadband video and data, next generation Internet Protocol network services, network access, long
distance and other services. We provide these services to consumers, carriers, businesses and government customers both in the United States and internationally in 150 countries.    
    The following table provides operating financial information for our two reportable segments:       

A reconciliation of the total of the reportable segments  operating income to consolidated Income
Before Provision for Income Taxes, Discontinued Operations, Extraordinary Item and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change is as follows:       
    We generally account for intersegment sales of products and services and asset transfers at
current market prices. We are not dependent on any single customer. International operating revenues and long-lived assets are not significant.       

Comprehensive
Income         
    Comprehensive income (loss) consists of net income and other gains and losses affecting
shareowners  investment that, under GAAP, are excluded from net income. Significant changes in the components of Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income tax expense (benefit), are described below.       Foreign Currency Translation        

Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Cash Flow Hedges       The changes in Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Cash Flow Hedges were as follows:       
     Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Marketable Securities       The changes in Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Marketable Securities were as follows:       
     Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss       The components of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss are as follows:       
     Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments       The change in foreign currency translation adjustments at December 31, 2008 was primarily driven by the settlement of the foreign currency forward contracts which hedged a portion of our net
investment in Vodafone Omnitel (see Note 11) and the devaluation of the Euro. During 2007 we sold our interest in CANTV. During 2006 we sold our interest in Verizon Dominicana. See Note 3 for information on CANTV and Verizon Dominicana.   
   Defined Benefit Pension and Postretirement Plans       The change in defined benefit pension and postretirement plans of $8.5 billion, net of taxes of $5.4 billion, at December 31, 2008 was attributable to the change in the funded status of the plans in connection with the annual pension
and postretirement valuation in accordance with SFAS No. 158. The funded status was impacted by changes in asset performance, actuarial assumptions, and plan experience. In addition to the pension and postretirement items, we recorded a
reduction to the beginning balance of Accumulated other comprehensive loss of $79 million ($44 million after-tax) in connection with the spin-off of our local exchange and related business assets in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont.   

Additional Financial
Information         
    The tables that follow provide additional financial information related to our consolidated financial statements:

Other, net cash provided by operating activities   continuing operations primarily included
the add back of the minority interest s share of Verizon Wireless earnings, net of dividends paid to minority partners, of $5,218 million in 2008, $3,953 million in 2007 and $3,232 million in 2006.   

Commitments and Contingencies         
    Several state and federal regulatory proceedings may require our telephone operations to pay
penalties or to refund to customers a portion of the revenues collected in the current and prior periods. There are also various legal actions pending to which we are a party and claims which, if asserted, may lead to other legal actions. We have
established reserves for specific liabilities in connection with regulatory and legal actions, including environmental matters that we currently deem to be probable and estimable. We do not expect that the ultimate resolution of pending regulatory
and legal matters in future periods, including the Hicksville matter described below, will have a material effect on our financial condition, but it could have a material effect on our results of operations for a given reporting period.   
  During 2003, under a government-approved plan, remediation commenced at the site of a former Sylvania facility in Hicksville, New York that processed
nuclear fuel rods in the 1950s and 1960s. Remediation beyond original expectations proved to be necessary and a reassessment of the anticipated remediation costs was conducted. A reassessment of costs related to remediation efforts at several other
former facilities was also undertaken. In September 2005, the Army Corps of Engineers (ACE) accepted the Hicksville site into the Formerly Utilized Sites Remedial Action Program. This may result in the ACE performing some or all of the remediation
effort for the Hicksville site with a corresponding decrease in costs to Verizon. To the extent that the ACE assumes responsibility for remedial work at the Hicksville site, an adjustment to a reserve previously established for the remediation may
be necessary. Adjustments to the reserve may also be necessary based upon actual conditions discovered during the remediation at any of the sites requiring remediation.      In connection with the execution of agreements for the sales of businesses and investments, Verizon ordinarily provides representations and warranties to the purchasers pertaining to a variety of nonfinancial matters,
such as ownership of the securities being sold, as well as indemnity from certain financial losses.      Subsequent to the sale of Verizon
Information Services Canada in 2004, we continue to provide a guarantee to publish directories, which was issued when the directory business was purchased in 2001 and had a 30-year term (before extensions). The preexisting guarantee continues,
without modification, despite the subsequent sale of Verizon Information Services Canada and the spin-off of our domestic print and Internet yellow pages directories business. The possible financial impact of the guarantee, which is not expected to
be adverse, cannot be reasonably estimated since a variety of the potential outcomes available under the guarantee result in costs and revenues or benefits that may offset each other. In addition, performance under the guarantee is not likely.
     As of December 31, 2008, letters of credit totaling approximately $200 million were executed in the normal course of business, which
support several financing arrangements and payment obligations to third parties.      We have several commitments primarily to purchase network
services, equipment and software from a variety of suppliers totaling $737 million. Of this total amount, $435 million, $162 million, $75 million, $29 million, $26 million and $10 million are expected to be purchased in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013
and thereafter, respectively.   

Quarterly
Financial Information (Unaudited)         

Results of operations for the first quarter of 2008 include after-tax charges of $18 million for merger integration costs and $81 million related to access line
spin-off charges.          

Results of operations for the second quarter of 2008 include after-tax charges of $22 million for merger integration costs.          

Results of operations for the third quarter of 2008 include after-tax charges of $32 million for merger integration costs and $164 million for severance, pension
and benefit charges.          

Results of operations for the fourth quarter of 2008 include after-tax charges of $35 million for merger integration costs, $31 million investment related
charges attributable to an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value of our investments in marketable securities, and $424 million for severance, pension and other charges.          

Results of operations for the first quarter of 2007 include after-tax charges of $9 million for merger integration costs, $131 million for an extraordinary
charge related to the nationalization of CANTV, a $70 million after-tax gain on the sale of our interest in TELPRI and a $65 million after tax contribution to the Verizon Foundation.          

Results of operations for the second quarter of 2007 include after-tax charges of $17 million for merger integration costs.          

Results of operations for the third quarter of 2007 include after-tax charges of $28 million for merger integration costs, $44 million related to access line
spin-off charges and $471 million associated with taxes on foreign distributions.          

Results of operations for the fourth quarter of 2007 include after-tax charges of $58 million for merger integration costs, $36 million related to access line
spin-off charges, $139 million associated with taxes on foreign distributions, and $477 million for severance, pension and other charges.         Income before discontinued operations per common share is computed independently for each quarter and the sum of the quarters may not equal the annual amount.   

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 4
 dex21.htm
 LIST OF PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES OF VERIZON

List of principal subsidiaries of Verizon 

EXHIBIT 21        Verizon Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries       Principal Subsidiaries of Registrant at
December 31, 2008       

Name        

Jurisdiction of Organization        

Verizon California Inc.  

California  

Verizon Delaware LLC.  

Delaware  

Verizon Florida LLC.  

Florida  

Verizon Maryland Inc.  

Maryland  

Verizon New England Inc.  

New York  

Verizon New Jersey Inc.  

New Jersey  

Verizon New York Inc.  

New York  

Verizon North Inc.  

Wisconsin  

Verizon Northwest Inc.  

Washington  

Verizon Pennsylvania Inc.  

Pennsylvania  

Verizon South Inc.  

Virginia  

GTE Southwest Incorporated     (d/b/a Verizon Southwest)  

Delaware  

Verizon Virginia Inc.  

Virginia  

Verizon Washington, DC Inc.  

New York  

Verizon West Virginia Inc.  

West Virginia  

Cellco Partnership         (d/b/a
Verizon Wireless)   

Delaware  

Verizon Capital Corp.   

Delaware  

Verizon Business Global LLC  

Delaware  

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Consent of Ernst   Young LLP 

EXHIBIT 23       Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm      We consent to the incorporation by reference in
this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon) of our reports dated February 20, 2009, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Verizon and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of
Verizon, included in the 2008 Annual Report to Shareowners of Verizon.      Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of
Verizon listed in Item 15(a). This schedule is the responsibility of Verizon s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, as to which the date is February 20, 2009, the financial statement
schedule referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.      We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the following registration statements of Verizon and where applicable, related Prospectuses, of our reports dated February 20, 2009, with
respect to the consolidated financial statements of Verizon and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Verizon, incorporated herein by reference, and our report included in the preceding paragraph with respect to the
financial statement schedule of Verizon included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended December 31, 2008: Form S-8, No. 333-66459; Form S-8, No. 333-66349; Form S-4, No. 333-11573; Form S-8, No. 333-41593;
Form S-8, No. 333-42801; Form S-4, No. 333-76171; Form S-8, No. 333-75553; Form S-8, No. 333-76171; Form S-8, No. 333-50146; Form S-8, No. 333-53830; Form S-4, No. 333-82408; Form S-8, No. 333-82690; Form
S-8, No. 333-118904; Form S-8, No. 333-123374; Form S-4, No. 333-124008; Form S-8, No. 333-124008; Form S-4, No. 333-132651; Form S-8, No. 333-134846; Form S-8, No. 333-137475; Form S-3, No. 333-138705; Form
S-8, No. 333-142549; Form S-8, No. 333-150504, and Form S-3, No. 333-151922.       

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 dex311.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION - CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

302 Certification - Chief Executive Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.1       I, Ivan G. Seidenberg, certify that:       

1.  
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Verizon Communications Inc.;          

2.  
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;          

3.  
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;          

4.  
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange
Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:          

(a)  
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;          

(b)  
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;          

(c)  
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and          

(d)  
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and          

5.  
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):          

(a)  
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and          

(b)  
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting.          

Date: February 24, 2009  

/s/    Ivan G. Seidenberg   

Ivan G. Seidenberg   

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 dex312.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION - CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

302 Certification - Chief Financial Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.2       I, Doreen A. Toben, certify that:       

1.  
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Verizon Communications Inc.;          

2.  
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;          

3.  
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;          

4.  
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange
Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:          

(a)  
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;          

(b)  
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;          

(c)  
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and          

(d)  
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and          

5.  
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):          

(a)  
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and          

(b)  
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting.          

Date: February 24, 2009  

/s/    Doreen A. Toben   

Doreen A. Toben   

Executive Vice President                 and Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 dex321.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION -  CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

906 Certification -  Chief Executive Officer 

EXHIBIT 32.1       CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002, PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350 OF CHAPTER 63 OF TITLE 18 OF THE UNITED STATES CODE      I, Ivan G. Seidenberg, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Verizon Communications Inc. (the  Company ), certify that:       

(1)  
    the report of the Company on Form 10-K for the annual period ending December 31, 2008 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of
section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act  and          

(2)  
    the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company as of the
dates and for the periods referred to in the Report.          

Date: February 24, 2009  
     
  /s/    Ivan G. Seidenberg   

Ivan G. Seidenberg    

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer    
    A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906, or other document
authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement required by Section 906, has been provided to Verizon Communications Inc. and will be retained
by Verizon Communications Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 9
 dex322.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION -  CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

906 Certification -  Chief Financial Officer 

EXHIBIT 32.2       CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002, PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350 OF CHAPTER 63 OF TITLE 18 OF THE UNITED STATES CODE      I, Doreen A. Toben, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Verizon Communications Inc. (the  Company ), certify that:

(1)  
    the report of the Company on Form 10-K for the annual period ending December 31, 2008 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of
section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act  and          

(2)  
    the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company as of the
dates and for the periods referred to in the Report.          

Date: February 24, 2009  

/s/    Doreen A. Toben   

Doreen A. Toben    

Executive Vice President                 and Chief Financial Officer    
    A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906, or other document
authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement required by Section 906, has been provided to Verizon Communications Inc. and will be retained
by Verizon Communications Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.2>

