<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20130226_10-K_edgar_data_732712_0001193125-13-075713_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>17484669</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>379836</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>3997818</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3184776</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>6202900</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>3343730</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>104</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-13-075713.hdr.sgml : 20130226
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20130226103658
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-13-075713
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		16
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20121231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20130226
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20130226

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000732712
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (NO RADIO TELEPHONE) [4813]
		IRS NUMBER:				232259884
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08606
		FILM NUMBER:		13641334

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		140 WEST STREET
		STREET 2:		29TH FLOOR
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10007
		BUSINESS PHONE:		212-395-1000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		140 WEST STREET
		STREET 2:		29TH FLOOR
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10007

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BELL ATLANTIC CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-13-075713.txt : 20130226

10-K
 1
 d441535d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES        SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       Washington, D.C. 20549       FORM 10-K        
    Commission file number: 1-8606       Verizon Communications Inc.        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware   
     
   23-2259884    
 
    (State or other jurisdiction       of incorporation or organization)   
     
  (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)   

140 West Street       New York, New York    
     
   10007    
 
  (Address of principal executive offices)  
     
  (Zip Code)   
     Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (212) 395-1000    
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:    

Title of each
class             
     
     Name of each exchange   
                    
   on which registered                         

Common Stock, $.10 par value  
     
    New York Stock Exchange       The NASDAQ Global Select Market      London Stock Exchange    
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:    
  None      Indicate by check mark if the
registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
Yes           No            
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes
         No              
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes           No            
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data
File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes           No            
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405) is not contained herein, and
will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.                 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer ,
 accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):       

Large accelerated filer

Accelerated filer          
     
  Non-accelerated filer         
     
  Smaller reporting company          
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes
         No              
  At June 29, 2012, the aggregate market value of the registrant s voting stock held by non-affiliates was approximately $126,583,478,030.
     At January 31, 2013, 2,858,275,417 shares of the registrant s common stock were outstanding, after deducting 109,334,702
shares held in treasury.       Documents Incorporated By Reference:       Portions of the registrant s Annual Report to Shareowners for the year ended December 31, 2012 (Parts I and II).      Portions of the registrant s definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to shareholders in connection with the registrant s 2013 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders (Part III).           

Table of Contents  

      TABLE OF CONTENTS    

Item No.   

Page  

PART I   

Item 1.   
        
    Business    

2  

Item 1A.   
        
    Risk Factors    

15  

Item 1B.   
        
    Unresolved Staff Comments    

18  

Item 2.   
        
    Properties    

18  

Item 3.   
        
    Legal Proceedings    

19  

Item 4.   
        
    Mine Safety Disclosures    

19  

PART II   

Item 5.   
        
    Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities     

20  

Item 6.   
        
    Selected Financial Data    

20  

Item 7.   
        
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

20  

Item 7A.   
        
    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    

20  

Item 8.   
        
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    

20  

Item 9.   
        
    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    

21  

Item 9A.   
        
    Controls and Procedures    

21  

Item 9B.   
        
    Other Information    

21  

PART III   

Item 10.   
        
    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    

21  

Item 11.   
        
    Executive Compensation    

22  

Item 12.   
        
    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    

22  

Item 13.   
        
    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    

22  

Item 14.   
        
    Principal Accounting Fees and Services    

22  

PART IV   

Item 15.   
        
    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules    

23  

Signatures    

29  

Certifications   

Table of Contents  

PART I     

Item 1.     Business            

General    

Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon, or the Company) is a holding company that, acting through its
subsidiaries, is one of the world s leading providers of communications, information and entertainment products and services to consumers, businesses and governmental agencies with a presence in over 150 countries around the world. Formerly
known as Bell Atlantic Corporation, we were incorporated in 1983 under the laws of the State of Delaware. We began doing business as Verizon on June 30, 2000 following our merger with GTE Corporation. We have a highly diverse workforce of
approximately 183,400 employees.      Our principal executive offices are located at 140 West Street, New York, New York 10007
(telephone number 212-395-1000).      We have two primary reportable segments, Verizon Wireless and Wireline, which we operate and
manage as strategic business segments and organize by products and services.       

Verizon Wireless    

Verizon Wireless  communications
products and services include wireless voice and data services and equipment sales, which are provided to consumer, business and government customers across the United States.    
 
   Wireline   
     
    Wireline s voice, data and video communications products and
enhanced services include local and long distance voice, broadband Internet access and video, corporate networking solutions, data center and cloud services, and security and managed network services. We provide these products and services to
consumers in the United States, as well as to carriers, businesses and government customers both in the United States and in over 150 other countries around the world.    
    The following portions of the 2012 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners are incorporated into this
report:       

Segment Results of Operations  on pages 29 through 34 and in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 77 through 79.

Verizon Wireless   
       
     Background       Our Verizon Wireless segment is primarily comprised of Cellco Partnership doing business as Verizon Wireless. Cellco Partnership is a joint venture formed in April 2000 by the combination of the U.S.
wireless operations and interests of Verizon and Vodafone Group Plc (Vodafone). Verizon owns a controlling 55% interest in Verizon Wireless and Vodafone owns the remaining 45%. Verizon Wireless provides wireless communication services across one of
the most extensive wireless networks in the United States and has the largest third-generation (3G) Evolution Data Optimized (EV-DO) and fourth-generation (4G) Long-Term Evolution technology (LTE) networks of any U.S. wireless service
provider.      Verizon Wireless is the largest wireless service provider in the United States as measured by retail connections
and revenue. At December 31, 2012, Verizon Wireless had 98.2 million retail connections and 2012 revenues of approximately $75.9 billion, representing approximately 66% of Verizon s 2012 aggregate revenues.   
  As of January 22, 2013, our 4G LTE network has been deployed in 476 markets covering more than 273 million people throughout
the country, which is nearly 89% of the U.S. population. We expect to continue to deploy 4G LTE during 2013 and by year-end cover nearly our entire existing 3G network footprint. Our 4G LTE network provides higher data throughput performance for
data services at lower cost compared to those offered by 3G technologies. As of December 31, 2012, nearly 50% of our wireless data traffic was on our 4G LTE network.       Wireless Service and Product Offerings       Our wireless services described
below are available to our customers receiving service under the Verizon Wireless brand. In addition, customers can obtain wireless products and services that operate on our network from resellers that purchase network access from us on a wholesale
basis.   
         2   

Table of Contents  

     Wireless Services     
  We offer our wireless services on a postpaid and prepaid basis. Retail (non-wholesale) postpaid accounts represent
retail customers that are under contract with Verizon Wireless directly served and managed by Verizon Wireless and use its branded services. Accounts include single connection plans, family plans, Share Everything      plans and corporate accounts. A single account may receive monthly wireless services for a variety of connected
devices. Postpaid connections represent individual lines of service for which a customer is billed in advance a monthly access charge in return for a monthly network service allowance (access service revenues), and usage beyond the allowance is
billed in arrears (usage service revenues). Approximately 94% of our retail connections received our wireless services on a postpaid basis as of December 31, 2012. Our prepaid service enables individuals to obtain wireless services without a
long-term contract or credit verification by paying for all services in advance.      In 2012, Verizon Wireless launched the Share
Everything plans, which were made available to both new and existing postpaid customers. These plans feature domestic unlimited voice minutes, unlimited text, video and picture messaging and a single data allowance that can be shared among up to 10
devices connected to the Verizon Wireless network. For an additional monthly access fee, our customers have the option of sharing long distance and roaming minutes among their devices for calls from the United States to, and calls while within,
Canada and Mexico. The Share Everything plans also include the Mobile Hotspot service on our smartphones at no additional charge. The Mobile Hotspot service allows a customer to use our network to create a Wi-Fi network that can be used by Wi-Fi
enabled devices. In January 2013, Verizon Wireless announced it will begin offering shared data plans for business, with the Share Everything plans for Small Business and the Nationwide Business Data Packages and Plans. As of December 31, 2012,
Share Everything accounts represented approximately 23% of our retail postpaid accounts.      As wireless service providers
continue to upgrade their networks to enhance data-carrying capabilities and to permit higher-speed data transmission, the demand for full Internet browsing capabilities for phones and the proliferation of wireless applications for wireless-enabled
laptops, phones and other wireless devices is increasing and driving data transport access and usage revenue. This growing demand for wireless services has, in turn, spurred the demand for still higher-speed network technologies and the development
of an array of more advanced wireless devices that include more robust functionality.      We offer access to a wide variety of
wireless services, including Internet access via our broad range of devices. Our customers can access the Internet on all of our smartphones, as well as our basic phones that include HTML web-browsing capability. Our customers pay for this access
under plans and arrangements that may vary based on the type of device and the customer s preference for network access. We offer various packages of wireless services that allow customers, regardless of the device, to select the plan that best
matches their network usage patterns. Our pricing models offer customers options for smartphones, basic phones, tablets and other devices.      We also offer service that enables our customers to access the Internet wirelessly at broadband speeds on notebook computers and tablets that either have embedded 4G LTE or 3G EV-DO modules, or that are
used in conjunction with separate devices that enable access to this service, such as smartphones and USB modems as well as
Jetpacks      and other dedicated devices that provide a mobile Wi-Fi connection. These devices can be added to the
customer s Share Everything plan for an additional monthly fee, or the customer can obtain a separate plan for the device at various price points, depending upon both the size of the data allowance purchased and the device covered by the plan.
     In addition, we offer messaging services, which enable our customers to send and receive text, picture and video messages.
Our consumer-focused multimedia offerings, which are primarily provided via third-party arrangements, consist of applications providing music, video, gaming, news and other content to our customers, while our business-focused offerings, which are
designed to increase the productivity of our business customers, include solutions that enable customers to access the Internet and their corporate intranets, as well as products that enable wireless e-mail across our diverse portfolio of wireless
devices. Our location-based services provide our customers with directions to their destination and enable our business customers to locate, monitor and communicate with their mobile field workers. Our global data services allow our customers to
access their e-mail on our Global Ready Phones from hundreds of international destinations and to access the Internet at such destinations with laptops that are either Global Ready, tethered to a Global Ready Phone, or are used in conjunction with
other Global Ready devices, such as certain USB data modems or Jetpacks.      Our customers can make and
receive calls on their home phone handsets using our wireless network through our Home Phone Connect service. We also offer HomeFusion      Broadband, which is a high-speed Internet service that provides customers with Internet connections in their homes using our 4G LTE network.   
  In addition to the foregoing offerings, our customers have access to hundreds of thousands of applications and services developed and
distributed by third parties, such as those offered via Google Play, accessible on our smartphones running on the Google, Inc. (Google) Android operating system, those offered via the Apple, Inc. (Apple) iTunes store, accessible through smartphones
and tablets running on the Apple iOS operating system, those offered by Microsoft Inc. (Microsoft), via Microsoft s Windows Phone OS operating system and those offered by Research in Motion Limited (RIM) doing business as Blackberry, through
its BlackBerry App World webstore.      We offer a variety of plans for voice services and features with competitive pricing
tailored to meet the needs of our customers. Our Share Everything plans allow customers to place unlimited domestic calls using our network. We adjust our plans periodically to address changing customer preferences and needs and to take advantage of
the availability of new technology. We also offer a variety of international wireless voice services to our customers through roaming arrangements with wireless service providers outside of the United States.   
         3   

Table of Contents  

   In addition, we provide network access and enhanced value added services to support
telemetry-type applications, which are characterized by machine-to-machine (M2M) wireless connections. Our M2M services support devices that are used by a variety of vertical market segments, including healthcare, manufacturing, utilities,
distribution and consumer products. For example, companies purchase network access and enhanced services from us in order to connect with and monitor equipment, such as medical devices used to monitor patients, fleet management devices used to
monitor company-operated vehicles and utility monitoring devices used for smart grid applications. Other companies purchase network access and enhanced services from us to support devices that are included in a service they, in turn, sell to
end-users. We also support telematics services for some of the largest automotive manufacturers. We expect that consumer use of M2M wireless connections will increase as consumers take advantage of such services as home monitoring, health care,
energy management and utilities management.        Wireless Devices     
  We offer several categories of wireless devices, including smartphones, tablets and other Internet access devices as well as basic phones.
      Smartphones . Our device line-up includes an array of smartphones that are enabled to utilize our 4G LTE and/or 3G
EV-DO high-speed data services and run under various operating platforms, such as Google Android, Apple iOS, BlackBerry OS, and Windows Phone OS.       Tablets and Other Internet Access Devices.  We offer a variety of 4G LTE and/or 3G EV-DO-enabled tablets from multiple manufacturers that run primarily on either the Apple iOS or Google Android
operating system. These tablets also permit our customers to access the Internet via a Wi-Fi connection. In addition, we offer dedicated devices that provide a mobile Wi-Fi 4G LTE and/or 3G EV-DO connection, which we refer to as Jetpacks capable of
connecting multiple Wi-Fi enabled devices to the Internet at one time. Our customers can also access the Internet wirelessly at broadband speeds on their computers via data cards, USB modems or through the use of certain laptop computers and
netbooks with embedded 4G LTE and 3G EV-DO Mobile Broadband modules offered by original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). During 2012, we continued to experience strong subscriber demand for tablets and Jetpacks, which continued to represent a
growing proportion of our revenue growth.       Basic Phones . Some of our basic phones are 3G EV-DO-enabled and have
HTML-browsing capability. We also offer a selection of basic phones that operate via our CDMA-1XRTT service.      We purchase
wireless devices and accessories from a number of manufacturers, with the substantial majority of our purchases made from Apple, Motorola Mobility, Samsung, LG Electronics, RIM, and PCD (through which we purchase Pantech and HTC devices and
accessories).      A key component of all wireless devices is the chipset, which contains the  intelligence  of the
device. Most of our wireless device suppliers rely on Qualcomm Incorporated (Qualcomm) for manufacturing and supplying CDMA-1XRTT and EV-DO chipsets. We also sell phones that include CDMA-1XRTT and EV-DO chipsets manufactured by VIA Telecom under
license from Qualcomm. The LTE chipsets used in our 4G LTE-enabled devices are manufactured by various companies, each using its own 4G LTE chipset technology. In addition, there are a number of other components common to wireless phones provided by
various electronic component manufacturers that we do not deal with directly.       Strategic Initiatives    
  We have undertaken several initiatives to develop innovative devices, data services and applications available to run on our networks,
including the following:       

Innovation centers.  We operate innovation centers in Waltham, Massachusetts and San Francisco. We believe our centers serve as catalysts
for the development of non-traditional devices, services and applications that take full advantage of our 4G LTE network. The centers work with many of our strategic partners representing various industries to help them quickly bring products,
services and applications to market.          

Isis . Isis is a mobile commerce platform launched on a trial basis in 2012 as a joint venture with AT T Inc. (AT T) and T-Mobile USA,
Inc. (T-Mobile) that enables customers to pay for point-of-sale purchases via their mobile phones using near field communications technology rather than by paying with cash or a credit card. Known as the  ISIS Mobile Wallet,  this service
enables customers to organize all of their payment cards, offers and loyalty cards in one convenient application on their Isis-ready phone.          

Converged solutions.  In 2011, Verizon Wireless entered into commercial agreements, modified in 2012, with affiliates of Comcast Corporation,
Time Warner Cable, Bright House Networks and Cox Communications Inc. (the cable companies). Through these agreements, the cable companies and Verizon Wireless became agents to sell certain of one another s products and services and, over time,
the cable companies will have the option, subject to the terms and conditions of the agreements, of selling Verizon Wireless service on a wholesale basis. Additionally, Comcast, Time Warner, Bright House and Verizon Wireless have formed an
innovation technology joint venture for the development of technology to better integrate wireline and wireless products and services.           Network        We have the largest 3G EV-DO and 4G LTE networks of any
service provider in the United States, with licensed and operational coverage in all of the top 100 most populous U.S. metropolitan areas, covering a population of approximately 298 million as of December 31, 2012.   
         4   

Table of Contents  

   We strive to provide our customers with the highest network reliability for their wireless
services. We design and deploy our network in an efficient manner that we believe maximizes the number of successful data sessions and completions of large file downloads and uploads while delivering on our advertised throughput speeds, and
that maximizes the number of calls that are connected on the first attempt and completed without being dropped. We plan to continue to build out, expand and upgrade our network as well as explore strategic opportunities to expand our national
network coverage through selective acquisitions of wireless operations and spectrum licenses.      In addition to our own network
coverage, we have roaming agreements with a number of wireless service providers to enable our customers to receive wireless service in nearly all other areas in the United States where wireless service is available. Certain of our roaming
agreements are terminable at will by either party upon several months  notice; however, we do not believe that the termination of any of these at-will agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business.   
    Technology        Our
primary network technology platforms are 4G LTE and 3G CDMA. 4G LTE provides higher data throughput performance for data services at a lower cost compared to those offered by 3G technologies. We expect to continue to deploy 4G LTE during 2013 and by
year-end cover nearly our entire existing 3G network footprint. We also are working to expand 4G LTE coverage beyond our network footprint through our LTE in Rural America Program. Under this program, we are working with wireless carriers in rural
areas to collaboratively build and operate a 4G LTE network using each carrier s network assets and our core 4G LTE equipment and 700 MHz C-Block spectrum. We currently have 20 committed program participants that have the potential to provide
4G LTE coverage to more than two million people under the program and, to date, seven participants have commenced operations on such networks.      In 2012, we began testing our mobile VoIP (voice over internet protocol) network known as Voice over LTE (VoLTE). This technology, which is expected to be used in addition to the current voice technology,
is anticipated to result in high quality of voice service as a result of our 4G LTE network. We expect to launch VoLTE for commercial use by early 2014.      Our 3G CDMA network is based on spread-spectrum digital radio technology. CDMA-1XRTT technology is deployed in nearly all of the cell sites in our 3G CDMA network. In addition, EV-DO, a 3G packet-based
technology intended primarily for high-speed data transmission, is deployed in substantially all of the cell sites in our 3G CDMA network.      Our network includes various elements of redundancy designed to enhance the reliability of our service. Power and backhaul transport facilities can often become a network s vulnerability.
Consequently, we have battery backup at every switch and every cell site in our network. We also utilize backup generators at a majority of our cell sites and at every switch location. In addition, we have a fleet of portable backup generators that
can be deployed to cell sites if needed. We further enhance reliability by using a fully redundant backbone Multiprotocol Label Switching network in all critical locations.      In September 2011, Verizon Wireless implemented network optimization practices designed to ensure that the overwhelming majority of our data customers are not negatively impacted by the unusually high
data consumption of a few data users. Under these current practices, the top five percent of our 3G smartphone data users with unlimited data plans, as well as 3G data users roaming on our network, may experience a reduction in average data
speeds when connected to a congested cell site. If a cell site is not congested, a user s connection speed will not be impacted. Network optimization helps to ensure high quality network performance for our entire customer base.
       Spectrum        The spectrum licenses we hold can be used for mobile wireless voice and data communications services. We have licenses to provide these wireless services on portions of the 800 MHz band (also known as
cellular spectrum), the 1800-1900 MHz band (also known as PCS spectrum) and the 1700 and 2100 MHz band (also known as AWS spectrum) in areas that, collectively, cover nearly all of the population of the United States. In addition, we hold licenses
for portions of the 700 MHz band, including eight licenses that can, together, be used to provide wireless service coverage to the entire United States.      In 2012, Verizon Wireless acquired Advanced Wireless Service (AWS) spectrum in separate transactions with SpectrumCo, LLC and Cox TMI Wireless, LLC for which it paid an aggregate of $3.9 billion at the
time of the closings. During 2012, Verizon Wireless also completed license purchase and exchange transactions with Leap Wireless, Savary Island Wireless, which is majority owned by Leap Wireless, and a subsidiary of T-Mobile. As a result of these
transactions, Verizon Wireless received an aggregate $2.6 billion of AWS and PCS licenses at fair value and transferred certain AWS licenses to T-Mobile and a 700 megahertz (MHz) lower A block license to Leap Wireless.   
  On April 18, 2012, we announced plans to initiate an open sale process for all of our 700 MHz lower A and B block spectrum licenses,
subject to the receipt of acceptable bids. We acquired these licenses as part of Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Auction 73 in 2008. On January 25, 2013, Verizon Wireless agreed to sell 39 lower 700 MHz B block spectrum licenses to
AT T in exchange for a payment of $1.9 billion and the transfer by AT T to Verizon Wireless of AWS (10 MHz) licenses in certain markets in the western United States. Verizon Wireless also agreed to sell certain lower 700 MHz B block spectrum
licenses to an investment firm for a payment of $0.2 billion. These transactions are subject to approval by the FCC and the Department of Justice (DOJ). When finalized, the sales will result in the completion of the open sale process. We
expect to deploy the remaining licenses as necessary to meet our own spectrum needs.   
         5   

Table of Contents  

   During the fourth quarter of 2012, we entered into license exchange agreements with T-Mobile
and Cricket License Company, LLC, a subsidiary of Leap Wireless, to exchange certain AWS licenses. These non-cash exchanges, which are subject to approval by the FCC and other customary closing conditions, are expected to close in 2013. The exchange
includes a number of intra-market swaps that will result in more efficient use of the AWS band. As a result of these transactions, we expect to record an immaterial gain.      We anticipate we will need additional spectrum to meet future demand. This increasing demand is being driven by growth in customer connections and usage of wireless broadband services, which use more
bandwidth and require ever faster rates of speed to stay competitive. We can meet spectrum needs by acquiring licenses or leasing spectrum from other licensees, or by acquiring new spectrum licenses from the FCC, if and when offered by the FCC in
future spectrum auctions. Although the availability of new spectrum for commercial wireless services and the possible dates of future FCC spectrum auctions are uncertain at this time, the FCC and the current Presidential Administration have been
seeking the release of additional mobile use spectrum. In addition, Congress has adopted legislation that provides for the establishment of a national public safety network and the reallocation and auction, through the use of voluntary incentive
auctions, by 2022 of portions of the existing broadcast spectrum. The timing and nature of those auctions will be determined by future regulatory proceedings.      As we and competing wireless service providers have experienced spectrum shortages in certain markets and may have spectrum surpluses in others, we have at times exchanged spectrum licenses with other
service providers through secondary market swap transactions, we expect to continue to pursue similar opportunities to trade spectrum licenses in order to meet certain of our capacity and expansion needs in the future. In other cases, Verizon
Wireless has entered into intra-market spectrum swaps designed to increase the amount of contiguous spectrum within frequency bands in a specific market. Contiguous spectrum improves network performance and efficiency. These swaps as well as any
spectrum purchases are subject to obtaining governmental approvals for the transfer of spectrum licenses in each instance.        Network
Equipment and Build-out        Our primary cell site equipment infrastructure vendors are Alcatel-Lucent, which provides more
than half of our cell site equipment, and Motorola and Ericsson, which together provide nearly all of our remaining cell site equipment. We also rely upon Alcatel-Lucent, Motorola and Ericsson for our switching equipment. Alcatel-Lucent and Ericsson
are currently our primary network vendors for our LTE network deployments.      As we continue to build and upgrade our existing
network, we must complete a variety of steps, including securing rights to a large number of cell site and switch site locations and obtaining zoning and other governmental approvals. In some instances, we have encountered difficulty in obtaining
the necessary site leases at commercially reasonable rates and the zoning approvals needed to construct new towers. We utilize tower site management firms, such as Crown Castle International Corp. and American Tower Corporation, as lessors or
managers of our existing tower sites upon which our operations depend.       Marketing and Distribution    
  Our marketing strategy is focused on offering solutions tailored to the needs of our various customer market groups; promoting our brand;
leveraging our extensive distribution network; jointly marketing with Vodafone; and jointly marketing our products and services to large business and government customers with Verizon s Wireline business units through Verizon Enterprise
Solutions, a sales and marketing organization that encompasses all of Verizon s solutions for medium and large business and government customers globally. Our marketing plan includes a coordinated program of television, print, radio, outdoor
signage, Internet and point-of-sale media promotions designed to present our corporate message consistently across all of our markets.      We use a combination of direct, indirect and alternative distribution channels in order to increase customer growth while reducing customer acquisition costs.   
  Company-operated stores are a core component of our distribution strategy. Our direct channel, which includes our business-to-business
operations and systems organization, is focused on supporting the wireless communications needs of consumers and local, regional and national business customers. In addition, we have a telemarketing sales force dedicated to handling incoming calls
from customers, and we offer fully-automated, end-to-end web-based sales of wireless phones, accessories and service plans.   
  Our indirect channel includes agents that sell our postpaid and prepaid wireless products and services at retail locations throughout the
United States, as well as through the Internet. The majority of these agents sell both our postpaid and prepaid products and services, and do so under exclusive selling arrangements with us. We also utilize high-profile, national retailers, such as
Best Buy, Wal-Mart, RadioShack and Target, to sell our postpaid and prepaid wireless products and services. Stores such as Dollar General and various drugstore chains sell our prepaid products and services. We have also entered into agency
agreements with a number of broadband, video and voice service providers through which our products and services are sold on a stand-alone basis or bundled with their services.       Competition       We operate in a highly competitive industry. We compete
against other national wireless service providers, including AT T, Sprint Nextel Corporation and T-Mobile USA, as well as various regional wireless service providers, including US Cellular, Metro PCS and Leap Wireless. We also compete for retail
activations with resellers that buy bulk wholesale service from facilities-based wireless service providers for resale, including those that buy from us. We expect competition to intensify as a result of continuing increases in wireless market
penetration levels, the development and deployment of new technologies, the introduction of new products and services, new market entrants, the availability of additional spectrum, both licensed and unlicensed, and regulatory changes. Competition
may also increase if smaller, stand-alone wireless service providers merge or transfer licenses to larger, better capitalized and more experienced wireless service providers.   
         6   

Table of Contents  

   The wireless industry also faces competition from other communications and technology
companies seeking to increase their brand recognition and capture customer revenue with respect to the provision of wireless products and services. For example, Microsoft, Google, Apple and others are offering alternative means for making wireless
voice calls that, in certain cases, can be used in lieu of the wireless provider s voice service.      We believe that the following are the
most important competitive factors in our industry:       

Network reliability, capacity and coverage . We believe that a wireless network that consistently provides high quality and reliable service
is a key differentiator in the U.S. market and a driver of customer satisfaction. Lower prices, improved service quality and new wireless service offerings have led to increased customer usage of wireless services, which, in turn, puts pressure on
network capacity. In order to compete effectively, wireless service providers must keep pace with network capacity needs and offer highly reliable national coverage through their networks. We believe that the deployment of our 4G LTE network will
help us to keep pace with network capacity requirements and meet customer demand for higher speeds.          

Pricing . Service and equipment pricing play an important role in the wireless competitive landscape. As the demand for wireless services
continues to grow, wireless service providers are offering service plans that include unlimited voice minutes and text messages and a specific amount of data access in varying megabyte or gigabyte sizes or, in some cases, unlimited data usage. In
addition, certain wireless service providers are also offering minutes-sharing plans; free mobile-to-mobile calling; offerings of larger bundles of included minutes at attractive price points with no roaming or long distance charges; calling group
features that enable customers to place and receive calls from a group of U.S. phone numbers they designate (including landline numbers) without the call time counting against their minute allotment; and both prepaid and postpaid plans offering
unlimited voice and data usage. We seek to compete in this area by offering our customers services and equipment that they will regard as the best available value for the price, as well as service plans that meet their wireless service needs.

Customer service . We believe that high-quality customer service is a key factor in retaining customers and attracting both new-to-wireless
customers and customers of other wireless providers. Our customer service, retention and satisfaction programs are based on providing customers with convenient and easy-to-use products and services in order to promote long-term relationships and
minimize churn. Our competitors also recognize the importance of customer service and are also focused on improving it.          

Product and service development . As wireless technologies develop and wireless broadband networks proliferate, continued customer and revenue
growth will be increasingly dependent on the development of new and enhanced data products and services. We continue to pursue the development and rapid deployment of new and innovative wireless products and services both independently and in
collaboration with application service providers. We also collaborate with various device manufacturers in the development of distinctive smartphones and other wireless devices that can access the growing array of data applications and content
available over the Internet. We continue to focus on increasing smartphone penetration throughout our customer base. In addition to these devices, we also continue to expand international roaming agreements and offer significant coverage outside of
the United States for customers that require wireless services while abroad.          

Sales and distribution . Key to achieving sales success in the wireless industry is the reach and quality of sales channels and distribution
points. We believe that attaining the optimal combination of varying distribution channels is important to achieving industry-leading profitability, as measured by operating income. We endeavor to increase sales through our company-operated stores,
outside sales teams and telemarketing and web-based sales and fulfillment capabilities, as well as through our extensive indirect distribution network of retail outlets and prepaid replenishment locations and netbook and notebook OEMs. In addition,
we sell network access to both traditional resellers, which resell network services to their end-users, and to various companies to enable wireless communications for their M2M devices or for their provision of telematics services.

Capital resources . In order to expand the capacity and coverage of their networks and introduce new products and services, wireless service
providers require significant capital resources. We generate significant cash flow from operations, as do some of our competitors.         Our success will depend on our ability to anticipate and respond to various factors affecting the wireless industry, including the factors described above, as well as new technologies, new business
models, changes in customer preferences, regulatory changes, demographic trends, economic conditions and pricing strategies of competitors.   
         7   

Table of Contents  

Wireline    
     Background       The Wireline segment provides communications products and services including local exchange and long distance voice service, broadband video and data, IP network services, network access and other
services to consumers, small businesses and carriers in the United States, as well as to businesses and government customers both in the United States and in over 150 other countries around the world. In 2012, Wireline revenues were $39.8 billion,
representing approximately 34% of Verizon s aggregate revenues.       Wireline Service and Product Offerings    
  We organize our service and product offerings by the primary market targeted by these offerings   mass markets, global enterprise,
global wholesale and other.      During 2012, Verizon acquired HUGHES Telematics, Inc. (HUGHES Telematics). The acquisition has
accelerated our ability to bring more telematics offerings to market for existing and new HUGHES Telematics and Verizon customers.      During 2011, we enhanced our offerings of cloud services by acquiring Terremark Worldwide Inc. (Terremark), a global provider of information technology infrastructure and cloud services, and by acquiring
a provider of cloud software technology. These acquisitions improved Verizon s competitive position in the managed hosting and cloud services space, enhanced our offerings to business and government customers globally and contributed to our
growth in revenues.        Mass Markets        Mass Markets operations provide local exchange (basic service and end-user access) and long distance (including regional toll) voice services, broadband services (including high-speed Internet, FiOS
Internet and FiOS Video services) to residential and small business subscribers. In 2012, Mass Markets revenues were $16.7 billion, representing approximately 42% of Wireline s aggregate revenues.   
   Video Services.  We offer video service over our fiber-optic network. As of December 31, 2012, FiOS Video is available to
approximately 14.2 million homes across 12 states, as well as the District of Columbia. We believe FiOS Video has features that differentiate it from the competition, including its channel line-up, Interactive Media Guide, Home Media DVR and
breadth of high definition content, as well as the following:       

Flex View    With Flex View, FiOS customers can watch content anytime, anywhere, on any device. Customers who subscribe to FiOS Video and
Internet also have the ability to upload their photos, music and videos to their personal Flex View Library, which gives them easy access to this content via any data-capable device. Our HBO GO offering provides customers with unlimited access to
HBO programming on any data-capable device. Verizon s FiOS Video subscribers can also access Turner Broadcasting s online programming directly on the TBS and TNT sites and through Verizon FiOS Video Online. In addition, through FiOS TV
Widgets, viewers have one-touch, on demand access to local weather, traffic and community information and popular social media applications, such as Facebook, YouTube and Twitter, as well as online commerce opportunities. The widget platform has
evolved in an open-development environment, which provides opportunities for third parties to develop enhanced customer features via the FiOS Video product.      

Customer Premise Equipment interoperability    We continue to partner with major corporations such as Microsoft and Apple to offer
further interoperability with various products such as the Xbox, smart televisions and iPads. This technology further expands our initiative to provide customers with the ability to watch content anytime, anywhere, on any data-capable device.
        In February 2012, Verizon entered into a venture with Redbox Automated Retail, LLC (Redbox), a subsidiary
of Coinstar, Inc., to offer customers nationwide access to media rentals through online and mobile content streaming as well as physical media rentals through Redbox kiosks. Verizon holds a 65% majority ownership share in the venture and Redbox
holds a 35% ownership share. The venture is consolidated by Verizon for reporting purposes. In December 2012, the venture introduced its product portfolio, which includes subscription services, under the name Redbox Instant by Verizon. The
initial funding related to the formation of the venture is not significant to Verizon.       Data services.  We offer
high-speed Internet and FiOS broadband data products with varying downstream and upstream processing speeds, including FiOS Quantum. As consumers power multiple devices and stream more movies and video services, the need for faster broadband is
evident. With FiOS Quantum, customers can achieve download speeds up to 300 megabytes per second (Mbps) and upload speeds up to 65 Mbps.       Voice services.  We offer voice services that include local exchange, regional, long distance, wire maintenance and voice messaging services, as well as VoIP services, which use the Internet or
private broadband networks to transmit voice communications. We also offer plans that include landline and wireless services with calling features and unlimited calling between a Verizon customer s home phone and wireless handset, all on a
single bill.   
         8   

Table of Contents  

     Global Enterprise        Global Enterprise offers Strategic services, including networking products and solutions, advanced communications services, and other core communications services to medium and large business customers,
including multinational corporations, as well as state and federal government customers. Global Enterprise jointly markets these services with Verizon s other business units through Verizon Enterprise Solutions. In 2012, Global Enterprise
revenues were $15.3 billion, representing approximately 39% of Wireline s aggregate revenues.       Strategic services. 
Strategic services consist of networking products and solutions, advanced communication services for voice and video and security, infrastructure and cloud services.      Networking products and solutions primarily include:       

Private IP    This service, built on multiprotocol label switching (MPLS), enables customers to leverage the efficiency, performance and
value of IP in a secure manner. Our Private IP network allows customers to communicate over a private, secure network in more than 120 countries using a variety of access methods, including Ethernet and Verizon Wireless 4G LTE.

Other corporate networking services    Other services primarily include Ethernet access and ring services. Ethernet services allow
customers to connect network environments around the world and enable applications and technologies to work seamlessly and with little disruption. Ring services include technologies that help customers handle bandwidth demands while controlling
costs.         Advanced communication services primarily include:   

IP communications - Our IP communications services simplify network management and drive operational efficiencies by enabling the convergence of
voice and data traffic on the same access connection.          

Infrastructure and cloud services    Our infrastructure and cloud services include managed hosting services that provide enterprise
customers with data center and network facilities, connectivity, security, architecture and support; data center collocation services that house and protect customers  critical applications and systems, including several facilities that offer
extensive carrier neutral options; application management services that provide customers with comprehensive monitoring and management of applications; and advanced enterprise-class cloud services that provide organizations with the ability to
virtualize IT resources such as computing, memory and storage enabling their constituents to produce, consume and share information.          

M2M Services   Our acquisition of HUGHES Telematics in July 2012 provides a technology platform that can be leveraged to enter multiple M2M
markets.          

Security    We provide integrated solutions to help companies secure their networks and data through the following services:

Security professional services    Security consultants that construct security plans tailored to the needs of our customers;

Governance, risk and compliance    Allows customers to assess risk levels based on current security controls and develop plans to address
security-related compliance objectives;          

Identity management    Provides identity-based access management for customer data, application, and systems across multiple IT
environments;          

Managed security    We design, implement, and maintain a secure IT infrastructure for our clients and help them prevent, detect, and
report security threats.          

Other advanced communications services    Other services primarily include: dedicated Internet access, which provides enterprise
customers with high-bandwidth dedicated access to Verizon s global network, unified communications and collaboration capabilities, which enable customers to communicate in real time through VoIP and IP conferencing, and emergency communication
services, which allow customers to respond effectively to emergencies while maintaining business continuity.          Core
services . Core services include core voice and data services, which consist of a comprehensive portfolio of global solutions utilizing traditional telecommunications technology, such as conferencing and contact center solutions, and private line
and data access networks. Core services also include providing customer premise equipment, installation, maintenance and site services. We are continuing to transition customers out of historical core services such as Frame Relay and Asynchronous
Transfer Mode (ATM) services.           Global Wholesale        Global Wholesale provides communications services including data, voice, local dial tone and broadband services primarily to local, long distance and other carriers that use our facilities to provide
services to their customers. In 2012, Global Wholesale revenues were $7.2 billion, representing approximately 18% of Wireline s aggregate revenues. A portion of Global Wholesale revenues is generated by a few large telecommunication companies,
most of which compete directly with us.   
         9   

Table of Contents  

   Global Wholesale provides the following services, which it jointly markets with
Verizon s other business units through Verizon Enterprise Solutions:       

Data services.  We offer a robust portfolio of data services with varying speeds and options to enhance our wholesale customers  networks
and provide connections to their end users and subscribers. Our data services include high-speed digital data offerings, such as Ethernet and Synchronous Optical Network, as well as core data circuits, such as DS1s and DS3s. In addition, data
services include special access revenues that are generated from carriers that buy dedicated local exchange capacity to support their private networks.      
  New Ethernet connectivity in the United States represents the largest data growth opportunity in wholesale, as we pursue
our technology upgrade initiative and customers look to the future and higher capacity demands. These customers are also migrating networks from time division multiplexing (TDM) to Ethernet, which will better scale and service the growth of
broadband services driven by smartphones, mobile broadband and mobile video. Global Wholesale offers a complete suite of services to support the expansion of 3G networks and 4G networks.   
  Data services also includes certain value-added business services, which leverage many of the same offerings available in
the Global Enterprise portfolio, including:       

Managed services    Offers wholesale customers the opportunity to outsource the management of their networks, security, remote access,
and web applications to Verizon;          

Mobility    Enables wholesale customers to enhance their portfolio to triple-play or quad-play capability by leveraging wireless devices
and services offered through Verizon Wireless and packaged and resold under their own carrier brand; and          

Security    Provides wholesale customers integrated solutions to help their enterprise end-users secure their networks and data.

Voice services . We provide switched access services that allow carriers to complete their end-user calls that originate or terminate within
our territory.          

Local services.  We offer an array of local dial tone and broadband services to competitive local exchange carriers, some of which are offered
to comply with telecommunications regulations. In addition, we offer services such as collocation, resale and unbundled network elements in compliance with applicable regulations.      
    Other        Other
services include such services as local exchange and long distance services derived from former MCI mass market customers and operator services. In 2012, Other revenues were $0.5 billion, representing approximately 1% of Wireline s aggregate
revenues.       Network       To provide services to our customers, we operate an advanced telecommunications network in the United States and around the world.   
   FiOS.  Our goal is to be the premier broadband and entertainment service provider in our service areas, and we
believe network reliability and expanded functionality are key to achieving this goal. As of December 31, 2012, the FiOS network passed over 17.6 million premises. Verizon has extended FiOS to the business market, as Ethernet services have
seen significant growth across all lines of business. We leverage our fiber-to-the-premise infrastructure to offer new services to the business community, expanding our coverage and Ethernet and IP WAN services sought by businesses today. We offer
Internet speeds up to 300 Mbps utilizing Fiber-to-the-Premise (FTTP) access technologies over fiber optic cables. Our network architecture also provides the flexibility to adapt our facilities more easily to future product development. For example,
new optical terminals can be added to the FTTP network providing greater bandwidth and new services without any additional field construction. Field trials have successfully achieved connection speeds of nearly one gigabit per second (Gbps)
downstream and upstream, and when a more advanced XG-PON2 technology was connected to the fiber-optic network, connection speeds of 10 Gbps were reached, demonstrating the significant capacity built into the FiOS network.   
   Global IP . Verizon s global network encompasses over 830,000 route miles of terrestrial and undersea cable.
We have expanded our Virtual Private LAN service to Europe, Asia-Pacific and additional North American locations. This long haul fiber network serves the business community to support and enable far reaching international operations. We have focused
on the expansion of our private IP network to serve all key international markets with Quality of Service-aware IP Virtual Private Network managed services. Our Public IP network is now interconnected to our private IP network through Security
Gateway platforms that allow business customers to extend the reach of their private virtual networks to  off-net  sites, such as employees  homes, small branch offices and mobile work forces. We have installed additional private IP
edge routers for a total of 1,145 edge routers in 257 sites throughout 66 countries.      Global IP traffic
increased in recent years. Verizon s key build-out efforts in 2012 included network expansion initiatives into Europe, Asia, Africa, and South America, as well as continued deployment of the industry s first commercial 100G (gigabits per
second) technology on U.S. and European backbone routes. More than 12,000 100G Ultra-Long-Haul route miles were added to the global IP backbone in 2012. We expect to further extend our 100G technology in 2013, from our long haul backbone into our
metro networks. This expansion will enable us to meet growing demand with higher access speeds, and fully support increases in the use of cloud applications, video distribution services and wireless technologies in the enterprise market.   

         10   

Table of Contents  

    Fiber-to-the-Cellsite.  Our FTTCS Ethernet backhaul initiative is
critical to supporting the substantial growth requirements of expanding 3G and 4G LTE wireless data networks nationwide. To support this initiative, over 21,000 total cell site connections have been completed since the start of this program.
     In conjunction with the evolution of our access plant, we are also transitioning our metro (local) network infrastructure
from traditional TDM/SONET (Synchronous Optical Network)/ATM technologies to Ethernet over Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexing (DWDM). This new optical transport network provides features optimized for video distribution services and high-speed
data services, while maintaining the level of network reliability achieved with SONET.      To leverage this new network
infrastructure and allow for the more efficient sharing of our network across services, we are upgrading our multiplexing and routing infrastructure to use IP, Ethernet and MPLS technologies. In addition, we are migrating from traditional TDM-based
voice switching to VoIP. This migration lowers the cost of current data and voice services and creates a network that can offer future multi-media communications services by adding service platforms without requiring widespread network upgrades. We
have been focused on growing our Ethernet infrastructure to support the full range of Ethernet private line and E-LAN services locally, domestically and globally. To lower the access cost and provide significant service flexibility, we are using a
converged packet access strategy that replaces the private circuit-based customer access and aggregates traffic from multiple customers onto a shared Ethernet and MPLS network. We also continue to focus on emerging optical transport technologies to
lower overall cost as we integrate Ethernet, SONET and Optics and ultra-long-haul technologies.       Competition    
  The wireline telecommunications industry is highly competitive. We expect competition to intensify further with traditional,
non-traditional and emerging players seeking increased market share. Current and potential competitors include cable companies, wireless service providers, other domestic and foreign telecommunications providers, satellite television companies,
Internet service providers and other companies that offer network services and managed enterprise solutions.      In addition,
companies with a global presence increasingly compete with our wireline businesses. A relatively small number of telecommunications and integrated service providers with global operations serve customers in the global enterprise and, to a lesser
extent, global wholesale markets. We compete with these full or near-full service providers for large contracts to provide integrated services to global enterprises. Many of these companies have a strong market presence, brand recognition, and
existing customer relationships, all of which contribute to intensifying competition and which may affect our future revenue growth.      We
believe the following are the most important competitive factors and trends in the wireline industry:       

Customer service : Customers expect industry-leading service from their service providers. As technologies and services evolve, the ability of
a carrier to excel in this area is very important for customer acquisition and retention. In Mass Markets, we compete in this area through our service representatives and online support. In Global Enterprise, we provide our customers with ready
access to their system and performance information and we conduct proactive testing of our network to identify minor issues before they affect customers. In the wholesale business, we believe service improvement can be achieved through continued
system automation initiatives.          

Network reliability and bandwidth (speed):  As both consumers and small business customers look to leverage high-speed connections for
entertainment, communications and productivity, we expect broadband penetration will continue to increase over the next several years. As online and online-enabled activities increase, so will bandwidth requirements, both downstream and upstream. To
succeed, we and other network-based providers must ensure that our networks can deliver against these increasing bandwidth requirements. We continue to invest in our network to be able to meet this future demand. In addition, network reliability and
security are increasingly important competitive factors in the global enterprise market.          

Pricing : Cable, telecommunications companies and integrated service providers use pricing to capture market share from incumbents. Pricing is
also a significant factor as non-traditional modes of providing communication services emerge and new entrants compete for customers. For example, VoIP and portal-based calling is free or nearly free to customers and is often supported by
advertising revenues.          

Product differentiation:  As a result of pricing pressures, providers need to differentiate their products and services. Customers are
shifting their focus from access to applications and are seeking ways to leverage their broadband and video connections. Converged features, such as integrated wireless and wireline functionality, are becoming similarly important, driven by both
customer demand and technological advancement.         In the Mass Markets business, cable operators are
significant competitors. Cable operators have increased the size and digital capacity of their networks so that they can offer digital products and services. We continue to market competitive bundled offerings that include high-speed Internet
access, digital television and voice services. Several major cable operators also offer bundles with wireless services through strategic relationships.      In addition, wireless substitution is an ongoing competitive trend, which we expect to continue as wireless companies position their service as a landline alternative. We also face increasing competition
from cable companies and other providers of VoIP services as well as Internet portal providers.      As a result of the
Telecommunications Act of 1996, which requires us to allow potential competitors to purchase our services for resale or access components of our network on an unbundled basis at a prescribed cost, competition in our local exchange markets continues.
Our telephone   
         11   

Table of Contents  

operations generally have been required to sell their services to competitive local exchange carriers at significant discounts from the prices our telephone operations charge their retail
customers. The scope of these obligations going forward and the rates we receive are subject to ongoing review and revision by the FCC and state regulators. (See  Regulatory and Competitive Trends  in the 2012 Verizon Annual Report to
Shareowners.)      In the global enterprise market, the customer s need to reduce technical complexity coupled with the
growth opportunity created by technology convergence is driving the expansion of the competitive landscape. Major competitors include system integrators, carriers and hardware and software providers. Some of the biggest companies in IT services are
either making acquisitions or forging new alliances to be better positioned for a rebound in technology spending. Most new alliances and acquisitions have focused on emerging fields such as cloud computing, software delivery, communication
applications and other computing tasks via the network, rather than on in-house machines. Carriers have also utilized acquisitions to make significant inroads into enterprise outsourcing markets that have long been dominated by the major IT
outsourcers.      Global Wholesale competes with traditional carriers for long-haul, voice and IP services. In addition, mobile
video and data needs are driving a greater need for wireless backhaul. Network providers, cable companies and niche players are competitors for this new revenue opportunity.   
         12   

Table of Contents  

Patents, Trademarks and Licenses    
    Verizon owns or has licenses to various patents, copyrights, trademarks, domain names and other
intellectual property rights necessary to conduct our business. We actively pursue the filing and registration of patents, copyrights, domain names, trademarks and service marks to protect our intellectual property rights within the United States
and abroad. Verizon also actively grants licenses, in exchange for appropriate fees or other consideration and subject to appropriate safeguards and restrictions, to other companies that enable such companies to utilize certain Verizon intellectual
property rights and proprietary technology as part of their products and services. Such licenses enable such third party licensees to take advantage of the results of Verizon s research and development efforts. While these licenses result in
valuable consideration being paid to Verizon, we do not believe that loss of such consideration, or the expiration of any of our intellectual property rights, would have a material effect on our results of operations.   
  Verizon periodically receives offers from third parties to purchase or obtain licenses for patents and other intellectual property rights
in exchange for royalties or other payments. We also periodically receive notices alleging that our products or services infringe on third party patents or other intellectual property rights. These claims, whether against us directly or against
third-party suppliers of products or services that we, in turn, sell to our customers, if successful, could require us to pay damages or royalties, or cease offering the relevant products or services.   

Acquisitions and Divestitures    
     Acquisitions and Divestitures  on page 44 of the 2012 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners is
incorporated by reference into this report.       

Regulatory and Competitive Trends    
     Regulatory and Competitive Trends  included in  Other Factors That May Affect Future
Results  on pages 45 through 47 of the 2012 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners is incorporated by reference into this report.       

Environmental Matters    
     Environmental Matters  included in  Other Factors That May Affect Future Results  on
page 47 of the 2012 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners is incorporated by reference into this report.       

Executive Officers    
    See Part III, Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K for information about our executive officers.       

Employees    
    As of December 31, 2012, Verizon and its subsidiaries had approximately 183,400 employees. Unions
represent approximately 29% of our employees. During 2012, we reached agreements with the Communications Workers of America and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers on new, three-year contracts that cover approximately 43,000 Wireline
employees. These new agreements will expire on August 1, 2015.       

Information on Our Internet Website    
    We make available, free of charge on our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports at www.verizon.com/investor. Verizon has adopted a code of ethics, as that term is defined in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K, which applies to our Chief Executive
Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller. A copy of this code may be found on our website at www.verizon.com/investor. Any amendments to this code or any waiver of this code for any executive officer will be posted on that website.
  
         13   

Table of Contents  

Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements    
    In this report we have made forward-looking statements. These statements are based on our estimates and
assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include the information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations. Forward-looking statements also include those preceded or followed by the
words  anticipates,   believes,   estimates,   hopes  or similar expressions. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995.      The following important factors, along with those discussed elsewhere in this report could
affect future results and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements:       

adverse conditions in the U.S. and international economies;      

competition in our markets;          

material changes in available technology or technology substitution;      

disruption of our key suppliers  provisioning of products or services;      

changes in the regulatory environments in which we operate, including any increase in restrictions on our ability to operate our networks;

breaches of network or information technology security, natural disasters, terrorist attacks or significant litigation and any resulting financial
impact not covered by insurance;          

an adverse change in the ratings afforded our debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations or adverse conditions in the credit
markets impacting the cost, including interest rates, and/or availability of financing;          

changes in our accounting assumptions that regulatory agencies, including the SEC, may require or that result from changes in the accounting rules
or their application, which could result in an impact on earnings;          

material adverse changes in labor matters, including labor negotiations, and any resulting financial and/or operational impact;

significant increases in benefit plan costs or lower investments returns on plan assets; and      

the inability to implement our business strategies.      
         14   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A.    Risk Factors       
    The following discussion of  Risk Factors  identifies the most significant factors that may
adversely affect our business, operations, financial condition or future performance. This information should be read in conjunction with  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and the
consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report. The following discussion of risks is not all-inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our business and
expectations. These factors could cause our future results to differ materially from our historical results and from expectations reflected in forward-looking statements.       Adverse conditions in the U.S. and international economies could impact our results of operations.       Unfavorable general economic conditions, such as a recession or economic slowdown in the United States or in one or more of our other major markets, could negatively affect the affordability of and demand
for some of our products and services. In difficult economic conditions, consumers may seek to reduce discretionary spending by forgoing purchases of our products, electing to use fewer higher margin services or obtaining lower-cost products and
services offered by other companies. Similarly, under these conditions the business customers that we serve in the United States and abroad may delay purchasing decisions, delay full implementation of service offerings or reduce their use of
services. In addition, adverse economic conditions may lead to an increased number of our consumer and business customers that are unable to pay for services. If these events were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations.       We face significant competition that may reduce our market share and lower our profits.    
  We face significant competition in our industry. The rapid development of new technologies, services and products has eliminated the
traditional distinctions between wireless, cable, Internet, local and long distance communication services and brought new competitors to our markets, including other telephone companies, cable companies, wireless service providers, satellite
providers, application and device providers, electric utilities, and providers of VoIP services. While these changes have enabled us to offer new types of services, they have also allowed other service providers to broaden the scope of their own
competitive offerings. Our ability to compete effectively will depend on, among other things, our network quality, capacity and coverage, the pricing of our services and equipment, the quality of our customer service, our development of new and
enhanced products and services, the reach and quality of our sales and distribution channels and our capital resources. It will also depend on how successfully we anticipate and respond to various factors affecting our industry, including new
technologies and business models, changes in consumer preferences and demand for existing services, demographic trends and economic conditions. If we are not able to successfully respond to these competitive challenges, we could lose market share
and experience reduced profits.       If we are not able to adapt to changes in technology and address changing consumer demand
on a timely basis, we may experience a decline in the demand for our services, be unable to implement our business strategy and experience reduced profits.       Our industry is experiencing rapid change as new technologies are developed that offer consumers an array of choices for their communications needs. In order to grow and remain competitive, we will need
to adapt to future changes in technology, enhance our existing offerings and introduce new offerings to address our customers  changing demands. If we are unable to meet future challenges from competing technologies on a timely basis or at an
acceptable cost, we could lose customers to our competitors. We may not be able to accurately predict technological trends or the success of new services in the market. In addition, there could be legal or regulatory restraints to our introduction
of new services. If our services fail to gain acceptance in the marketplace, or if costs associated with implementation and completion of the introduction of these services materially increase, our ability to retain and attract customers could be
adversely affected.      In addition to introducing new technologies and offerings, we must phase out outdated and unprofitable
technologies and services. If we are unable to do so on a cost-effective basis, we could experience reduced profits.       We depend on key
suppliers and vendors to provide equipment that we need to operate our business.       We depend on various key suppliers and
vendors to provide us, directly or through other suppliers, with equipment and services, such as switch and network equipment, handsets and other devices and equipment, that we need in order to operate our business and provide products to our
customers. For example, our handset and other device suppliers often rely on one vendor for the manufacture and supply of critical components, such as chipsets, used in their devices. If these suppliers or vendors fail to provide equipment or
service on a timely basis or fail to meet our performance expectations, we may be unable to provide products and services as and when requested by our customers. We also may be unable to continue to maintain or upgrade our networks. Because of the
costs and time lags that can be associated with transitioning from one supplier to another, our business could be substantially disrupted if we were required to, or chose to, replace the products or services of one or more major suppliers with
products or services from another source, especially if the replacement became necessary on short notice. Any such disruption could increase our costs, decrease our operating efficiencies and have a material adverse effect on our business, results
of operations and financial condition.   
         15   

Table of Contents  

   The suppliers and vendors on which we rely may also be subject to litigation with respect to
technology on which we depend, including litigation involving claims of patent infringement. Such claims have been growing rapidly in the communications industry. We are unable to predict whether our business will be affected by any such litigation.
We expect our dependence on key suppliers to continue as we develop and introduce more advanced generations of technology.   
   Changes in the regulatory framework under which we operate could adversely affect our business prospects or results of operations.
      Our domestic operations are subject to regulation by the FCC and other federal, state and local agencies, and our
international operations are regulated by various foreign governments and international bodies. These regulatory regimes frequently restrict our ability to operate in or provide specified products or services in designated areas and require that we
maintain licenses for our operations and conduct our operations in accordance with prescribed standards. We are frequently involved in regulatory and non-regulatory governmental proceedings related to the application of these requirements. It is
impossible to predict with any certainty the outcome of pending federal and state regulatory proceedings relating to our operations, or the reviews by federal or state courts of regulatory rulings. Unless we are able to obtain appropriate relief,
existing laws and regulations may inhibit our ability to expand our business and introduce new products and services. Similarly, we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in obtaining the licenses needed to carry out our business plan or
maintaining our existing licenses. For example, the FCC grants wireless licenses for terms generally lasting 10 years that are subject to renewal. The loss of, or a material limitation on, certain of our licenses could have a material adverse effect
on our wireless business, results of operations and financial condition.      The adoption of new laws or regulations or changes
to the existing regulatory framework at the federal or state level could also adversely affect our business plans. New regulations could restrict the ways in which we can manage our wireline and wireless networks, impose additional costs, impair
revenue opportunities, and potentially impede our ability to provide services in a manner that would be attractive to us and our customers. For example, the development of new technologies, such as IP-based services, including VoIP and super
high-speed broadband and video, could be subject to conflicting regulation by the FCC and various state and local authorities, which could significantly increase the cost of implementing and introducing new services based on this technology.
     As the holder of 700 MHz C Block licenses, we are required to comply with certain  open access  regulations that
the FCC has imposed on all licensees of 700 MHz C Block spectrum. These rules require us to allow customers to use devices and applications of their choice on the LTE network we are deploying on that spectrum, including those obtained from
sources other than us or our distributors or dealers, subject to certain technical limitations established by us. In addition, our broadband Internet access services are subject to certain FCC-imposed  net neutrality  rules, which took
effect in November 2011 and are subject to a pending appeal. These rules limit the ways that a broadband Internet access service provider can manage its network and the services it can provide over the network. Given that the scope of the
restrictions and many critical terms in the  open access  and  net neutrality  rules are not fully defined and given that the rules create procedural mechanisms for parties to complain of violations, it is reasonable to expect
litigation to resolve ambiguities, which could lead to yet further regulation. The regulation of broadband activities and any related court decisions could restrict our ability to compete in the marketplace and limit the return we can expect to
achieve on past and future investments in our broadband networks.       Cyber attacks or other breaches of network or information technology
security could have an adverse effect on our business.       Cyber attacks or other breaches of network or information
technology (IT) security may cause equipment failures or disruptions to our operations. Our inability to operate our wireline or wireless networks as a result of such events, even for a limited period of time, may result in significant
expenses and/or loss of market share to other communications providers. In addition, the potential liabilities associated with these events could exceed the insurance coverage we maintain. Cyber attacks, which include the use of malware, computer
viruses and other means for disruption or unauthorized access, on companies, including Verizon, have increased in frequency, scope and potential harm in recent years. While, to date, we have not been subject to cyber attacks or other cyber
incidents which, individually or in the aggregate, have been material to our operations or financial condition, the preventive actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology and networks may be
insufficient to repel a major cyber attack in the future. The costs associated with a major cyber attack on Verizon could include expensive incentives offered to existing customers and business partners to retain their business, increased
expenditures on cyber security measures, lost revenues from business interruption, litigation and damage to our reputation. Further, certain of Verizon s businesses, including the provisioning of security solutions and infrastructure and cloud
services to business customers, could be negatively affected if our ability to protect our own networks is called into question as a result of a cyber attack. In addition, if we fail to prevent the theft of valuable information such as financial
data, sensitive information about the Company and intellectual property, or if we fail to protect the privacy of customer and employee confidential data against breaches of network or IT security, it could result in damage to our reputation, which
could adversely impact customer and investor confidence. Any of these occurrences could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   
         16   

Table of Contents  

    Natural disasters, terrorist acts or acts of war could cause damage to our infrastructure
and result in significant disruptions to our operations.       Our business operations are subject to interruption by natural
disasters, power outages, terrorist attacks, other hostile acts and events beyond our control. Such events could cause significant damage to our infrastructure, resulting in degradation or disruption of service to our customers. While we maintain
insurance coverage for some of these events, the potential liabilities associated with these events could exceed the insurance coverage we maintain. Our system redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate and our disaster recovery planning
may not be sufficient for all eventualities. These events could also damage the infrastructure of the suppliers that provide us with the equipment and services we need to operate our business and provide products to our customers. A natural disaster
or other event causing significant physical damage could cause us to experience substantial losses resulting in significant recovery time and expenditures to resume operations. In addition, these occurrences could result in lost revenues from
business interruption as well as damage to our reputation.       Adverse changes in the credit markets could increase our borrowing costs and
the availability of financing.       We require a significant amount of capital to operate and grow our business. We fund our
capital needs in part through borrowings in the public and private credit markets. Adverse changes in the credit markets, including increases in interest rates, could increase our cost of borrowing and make it more difficult for us to obtain
financing for our operations. In addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies which are based, in significant part, on our performance as measured by customary credit
metrics. A decrease in these ratings would likely increase our cost of borrowing and/or make it more difficult for us to obtain financing. A severe disruption in the global financial markets could impact some of the financial institutions with which
we do business, and such instability could affect our access to financing.       Increases in costs for pension benefits and
active and retiree healthcare benefits may reduce our profitability and increase our funding commitments.       With
approximately 183,400 employees and approximately 205,600 retirees as of December 31, 2012 participating in Verizon s benefit plans, the costs of pension benefits and active and retiree healthcare benefits have a significant impact on our
profitability. Our costs of maintaining these plans, and the future funding requirements for these plans, are affected by several factors including the continuing implementation of the provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and
the Health Care Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, increases in healthcare costs, decreases in investment returns on funds held by our pension and other benefit plan trusts and changes in the discount rate used to calculate pension and other
postretirement expenses. If we are unable to limit future increases in the costs of our benefit plans, those costs could reduce our profitability and increase our funding commitments.   
   A significant portion of our workforce is represented by labor unions and we could incur additional costs or experience work stoppages
as a result of the renegotiation of our labor contracts.       As of December 31, 2012, approximately 29% of our workforce
was represented by labor unions. We are currently engaged in contract negotiations with labor unions representing approximately 4,800 Wireline employees, and we will engage in additional negotiations as other labor contracts expire in the
future. Depending on the outcome of these negotiations, we could incur additional costs and/or experience lengthy work stoppages, which could adversely affect our business operations, including causing a loss of revenue and strained
relationships with customers.       We are subject to a significant amount of litigation, which could require us to pay significant damages or
settlements.       Our business faces a substantial amount of litigation, including, from time to time, patent infringement
lawsuits, antitrust class actions, wage and hour class actions, personal injury claims and lawsuits relating to our advertising, sales, billing and collection practices. In addition, our wireless business also faces personal injury and consumer
class action lawsuits relating to alleged health effects of wireless phones or radio frequency transmitters, and class action lawsuits that challenge marketing practices and disclosures relating to alleged adverse health effects of handheld wireless
phones. We may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. In addition, we may be required to pay significant awards or settlements.   
         17   

Table of Contents  

Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments       
    None.       

Item 2.    Properties       
    Our principal properties do not lend themselves to simple description by character and location. Our total
investment in plant, property and equipment was approximately $210 billion at December 31, 2012 and $216 billion at December 31, 2011, including the effect of retirements, but before deducting accumulated depreciation. Our gross investment
in plant, property and equipment consisted of the following:       
    Our properties as a percentage of total
properties are as follows:       
    Network equipment consists primarily of cable (aerial, buried, underground or undersea) and the related
support structures of poles and conduit, wireless plant, switching equipment, network software, transmission equipment and related facilities. Land, buildings and building equipment consists of land and land improvements, central office buildings or
any other buildings that house network equipment, and buildings that are used for administrative and other purposes. Substantially all the switching centers are located on land and in buildings we own due to their critical role in the network and
high set-up relocation costs. We also maintain facilities throughout the United States comprised of administrative and sales offices, customer care centers, retail sales locations, switching centers, cell sites and data centers. Furniture and other
consists of telephone equipment, furniture, data processing equipment, office equipment, motor vehicles, plant under construction, capitalized non-network computer software costs and leasehold improvements. A portion of our property is subject to
the liens of their respective mortgages securing funded debt.   
         18   

Table of Contents  

Item 3.    Legal Proceedings       
    On September 15, 2010, the U.S. Bank National Association (U.S. Bank), as Litigation Trustee for the
Idearc Inc. Litigation Trust (Litigation Trust), filed suit in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas against Verizon and certain subsidiaries challenging the November 2006 spin-off of Verizon s former directories business then
known as Idearc Inc. U.S. Bank, which represents a group of creditors who filed claims in the Idearc Inc. bankruptcy proceedings, alleges that Idearc Inc. was insolvent at the time of the spin-off or became insolvent shortly thereafter. The
Litigation Trust seeks over $9 billion in damages. Following a two-week trial in October 2012 limited to the question of the value of Idearc Inc. on the date of the spin-off, on January 22, 2013, the Court issued a decision finding that
the value was  at least $12 billion.  As $12 billion exceeds the value of the debt and cash that Idearc transferred to Verizon on the date of the spin-off, the Court issued a related Order to Show Cause directing the Litigation Trust to
submit a brief that  explains why any (or all) of its legal claims are viable in light of the court s finding on Idearc s value.  Briefing of that issue is scheduled to be completed by March 15, 2013.   
  On October 25, 2011, a Litigation Trust created during the bankruptcy proceedings of FairPoint Communications, Inc. filed a
complaint in state court in Mecklenburg County, North Carolina, against Verizon and other related entities, including Verizon Wireless. The complaint claims that FairPoint s acquisition of Verizon s landline operations in Maine, New
Hampshire and Vermont in March 2008 was structured and carried out in a way that left FairPoint insolvent or led to its insolvency shortly thereafter and ultimately to its October 2009 bankruptcy. The Litigation Trust seeks approximately $2 billion
in damages. Verizon removed the case to the United States District Court for the Western District of North Carolina in November 2011. In June 2012, the Litigation Trust filed a Second Amended Complaint that dropped all claims against Verizon
Wireless. Verizon filed a motion to dismiss the majority of claims in the Second Amended Complaint and a decision is pending. Discovery in the case is ongoing, with a trial set for May 2013.   

Item 4.    Mine Safety Disclosures       
    None.   
         19   

Table of Contents  

PART II     
 
           Item 5.    Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities       

The principal market for trading in the common stock of Verizon is the New York Stock Exchange. As of
December 31, 2012, there were 614,409 shareowners of record.      High and low stock prices, as reported on the New York
Stock Exchange composite tape of transactions, and dividend data are as follows:       
    On February 3, 2011, the Board approved a share buyback program which authorized the repurchase of
up to 100 million shares of Verizon common stock terminating no later than the close of business on February 28, 2014. The Board also determined that no additional shares were to be purchased under the previously authorized buyback
program. The program permits Verizon to repurchase shares over time, with the amount and timing of repurchases depending on market conditions and corporate needs. The Company may also enter into Rule 10b5-1 plans from time to time to facilitate
repurchases of its shares under this authorization. A Rule 10b5-1 plan permits the Company to repurchase shares at times when it might otherwise be prevented from doing so, provided the plan is adopted when the Company is not aware of material
non-public information.      During the fourth quarter of 2012, Verizon did not repurchase any shares of Verizon common stock. At
December 31, 2012, the maximum number of shares that could be purchased by or on behalf of Verizon under our share buyback program was 100 million. Through February 15, 2013, we purchased approximately 3.50 million shares under this
authorization.      For other information required by this item, see the section entitled  Stock Performance Graph  on
page 21 of the 2012 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners, which is incorporated herein by reference.       

Item 6.    Selected Financial Data       
    Information required by this item is included in the 2012 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners under the
heading  Selected Financial Data  on page 21, which is incorporated herein by reference.       

Item 7.    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations       
    Information required by this item is included in the 2012 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners under the
heading  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  on pages 22 through 40, which is incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk       
    Information required by this item is included in the 2012 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners under the
heading  Market Risk  on page 41, which is incorporated herein by reference.       

Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data       
    Information required by this item is included in the 2012 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners on pages 50
through 83, which is incorporated herein by reference.   
         20   

Table of Contents  

Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure       
    None.       

Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures       
    Our chief executive officer and chief financial officer have evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report, that ensure that information relating to the
registrant which is required to be disclosed in this report is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within required time periods. Based on this evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer have concluded that the
registrant s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2012.      There were no changes in
the registrant s internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter of 2012 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
     Management s report on internal control over financial reporting and the attestation report of Verizon s
independent registered public accounting firm are included in the 2012 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners on pages 48 and 49 and are incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 9B.    Other Information       
    None.       

PART III     

Item 10.    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance       

Set forth below is information with respect to our executive officers.   

Name  
      
  Age  

Office  
      
  Held Since   

Lowell C. McAdam   

58  

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  
      
  2011   
 
    Robert J. Barish   

51  

Senior Vice President and Controller  
      
  2009   
 
    Roy H. Chestnutt   

53  

Executive Vice President   Strategy, Development and Planning  
      
  2013   
 
    Roger Gurnani   

52  

Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer   
      
  2010   
 
    Daniel S. Mead   

59  

Executive Vice President and President and Chief Executive Officer   Verizon Wireless Joint Venture   
      
  2010   
 
    Anthony J. Melone   

52  

Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer  
      
  2010   
 
    Randal S. Milch   

54  

Executive Vice President   Public Policy and General Counsel  
      
  2008   
 
    W. Robert Mudge   

53  

President   Consumer and Mass Business Markets  
      
  2012   
 
    Marc C. Reed   

54  

Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer  
      
  2004   
 
    Francis J. Shammo   

52  

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  
      
  2010   
 
    John G. Stratton   

51  

Executive Vice President and President   Verizon Enterprise  
      
  2012   
    Prior to serving as an executive officer, each of the above officers has held high-level managerial
positions with the Company or one of its subsidiaries for at least five years, with the exception of Mr. Chestnutt, who has been with the Company since 2011. Officers are not elected for a fixed term of office and may be removed from office at
any time at the discretion of the Board of Directors.      Roy H. Chestnutt is Executive Vice President of Strategy, Development
and Planning for Verizon. From the time he joined the Company in 2011 until he was appointed to his current role in January 2013, Mr. Chestnutt was Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategy. Prior to joining Verizon, Mr. Chestnutt served
as Corporate Vice President of the Americas at Motorola Networks from June 2010 to June 2011, and from 2006 to 2009, Mr. Chestnutt was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Grande Communications Networks (Grande), a facilities-based provider
of bundled communications services. Prior to joining Grande, Mr. Chestnutt held a variety of management positions with Sprint-Nextel Corporation, Nextel Communications and AirTouch Communications.   
         21   

Table of Contents  

   For other information required by this item, see the sections entitled  Election of
Directors,   About Verizon s Governance Practices,   About the Board of Directors  and  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance  in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to shareholders in connection with our 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11.    Executive Compensation       
    For information with respect to executive compensation, see the section entitled  Compensation
Discussion and Analysis  in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to shareholders in connection with our 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by
reference.       

Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters       
    For information with respect to the security ownership of the Directors and executive officers and for
information with respect to securities authorized for issuance under Verizon s equity compensation plan, see the sections entitled  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  and  Approval of Performance
Goals and Award Limits under Verizon s 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan , respectively in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to shareholders in connection with our 2013 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference.       

Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence       
    For information with respect to certain relationships and related transactions and Director independence,
see the sections entitled  About Verizon s Governance Practices  and  About the Board of Directors  in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to shareholders in
connection with our 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which are incorporated herein by reference.       

Item 14.    Principal Accounting Fees and Services       
    For information with respect to principal accounting fees and services, see the section entitled
 Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to shareholders in connection with our 2013 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference.   
         22   

Table of Contents  

PART IV     

Item 15.    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules       
    (a) Documents filed as part of this report:   

Page   

(1)  
      
    Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   
      
  *   

(2)  
      
    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   
      
  *   

(3)  
      
    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial Statements   
      
  *   

Financial Statements covered by Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm:   

Consolidated Statements of Income   
      
  *   

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income   
      
  *   

Consolidated Balance Sheets   
      
  *   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   
      
  *   

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity   
      
  *   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
      
  *   

*       Incorporated herein by reference to the appropriate portions of the
registrant s Annual Report to Shareowners for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012. (See Part II.)   

(4)  
      
    Financial Statement Schedule   

II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts     
      
  28   

(5)  
      
    Exhibits   

23   

Table of Contents  

24   

Table of Contents  

10e   
     
    Verizon Income Deferral Plan (filed as Exhibit 10f to Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2002 and incorporated herein by
reference).**    

10e(i)   
     
    Description of Amendment to Plan (filed as Exhibit 10o(i) to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and incorporated herein by
reference).**    

10f   
     
    Verizon Excess Pension Plan (filed as Exhibit 10p to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and incorporated herein by
reference).**    

10f(i)   
     
    Description of Amendment to Plan (filed as Exhibit 10p(i) to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and incorporated herein by
reference).**    

10g   
     
    GTE s Executive Salary Deferral Plan, as amended (filed as Exhibit 10.10 to GTE s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998, File
No. 1-2755 and incorporated herein by reference).**    

10h   
     
    Bell Atlantic Senior Management Long-Term Disability and Survivor Protection Plan, as amended (filed as Exhibit 10h to Form SE filed on
March 27, 1986 and Exhibit 10b(ii) to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference).**    

10i   
     
    fGTE Executive Retiree Life Insurance Plan (filed as Exhibit 10q to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and incorporated herein by
reference).**    

10j   
     
    Verizon Executive Life Insurance Plan, As Amended and Restated September 2009 (filed as Exhibit 10s to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2010 and incorporated herein by reference).**    

10k   
     
    Verizon Executive Deferral Plan (filed as Exhibit 10e to Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2009 and incorporated herein by
reference).**    

10l   
     
    Form of Aircraft Time Sharing Agreement (filed as Exhibit 10v to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and incorporated herein by
reference).**    

10m   
     
    Description of the Split-Dollar Insurance Arrangements (filed as Exhibit 10dd(i) to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and
incorporated herein by reference).**    

10m(i)   
     
    Description of Change to Arrangements (filed as Exhibit 10dd(i) to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and incorporated herein by
reference).**    

10n   
     
    NYNEX Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (filed as Exhibit 10gg to NYNEX s Registration Statement No. 2-87850, File No.
1-8608 and incorporated herein by reference).**    

10o   
     
    Amendment to NYNEX Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (filed as Exhibit 10iii 5a to NYNEX s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the period ended June 30, 1996, File No. 1-8608 and incorporated herein by reference).**    

10p   
     
    Verizon Senior Manager Severance Plan (filed as Exhibit 10d to Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2010 and incorporated herein by
reference).**    

10q   
     
    U.S. Wireless Agreement, dated September 21, 1999, among Bell Atlantic and Vodafone Airtouch plc, including the forms of Amended and Restated
Partnership Agreement and the Investment Agreement (filed as Exhibit 10 to Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 1999 and incorporated herein by reference).     
         25   

Table of Contents  

10r   
     
    Credit Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2008, among Verizon Wireless and Verizon Wireless Capital LLC, as co-borrowers, Bank of America,
N.A., as administrative agent, and the lenders named therein (filed as Exhibit 99 to Form 8-K dated December 19, 2008 and incorporated herein by reference).    

10s   
     
    Cellco Partnership Amended and Restated Partnership Agreement among the Bell Atlantic Group and the Vodafone Group, dated as of April 3, 2000
(filed August 24, 2000 as Exhibit 10.3 to the Verizon Wireless Inc. Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No. 333-44394) and incorporated herein by reference).    

10t   
     
    Amendment and Joinder to Cellco Partnership Amended and Restated Partnership Agreement, dated as of July 10, 2000 (filed July 10, 2002 as
Exhibit 3.3.1 to Cellco Partnership s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 333-92214) and incorporated herein by reference).    

10u   
     
    Amendment to Cellco Partnership Amended and Restated Partnership Agreement, dated as of July 24, 2003 (filed as Exhibit 3.3.2 to Cellco
Partnership s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2003 (No. 333-92214) and incorporated herein by reference).    

10v   
     
    Amendment No. 3 to Cellco Partnership Amended and Restated Partnership Agreement, dated as of February 6, 2004 (filed as Exhibit 3.3.3 to Cellco
Partnership s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2004 (No. 333-92214) and incorporated herein by reference).    

10w   
     
    Amendment No. 4 to Cellco Partnership Amended and Restated Partnership Agreement, dated as of July 16, 2010 (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to Cellco
Partnership s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2010 (No. 333-92214) and incorporated herein by reference).    

10x   
     
    Amendment No. 5 to Cellco Partnership Amended and Restated Partnership Agreement, dated as of January 21, 2011, (filed as Exhibit 10ll to Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference).    

12   
     
    Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges filed herewith.    

13   
     
    Portions of Verizon s Annual Report to Shareowners for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 filed herewith. Only the information
incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K is included in the exhibit.    

21   
     
    List of principal subsidiaries of Verizon filed herewith.    

23   
     
    Consent of Ernst   Young LLP filed herewith.    

31.1   
     
    Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 filed herewith.    

31.2   
     
    Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 filed herewith.    

32.1   
     
    Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 filed herewith.    

32.2   
     
    Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 filed herewith.    

101.INS   
     
    XBRL Instance Document.    

101.SCH   
     
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.    

101.PRE   
     
    XBRL Taxonomy Presentation Linkbase Document.    

101.CAL   
     
    XBRL Taxonomy Calculation Linkbase Document.     
         26   

Table of Contents  

101.LAB   
     
    XBRL Taxonomy Label Linkbase Document.    

101.DEF   
     
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.    
    ** Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.   
         27   

Table of Contents  

      Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts    
   Verizon Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries       For the Years Ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010       

(a)  
    Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts Receivable primarily includes amounts previously written off which were credited directly to this account when
recovered.          

(b)  
    Valuation Allowance for Deferred Tax Assets includes current year increase to valuation allowance charged to equity and reclassifications from other
balance sheet accounts.          

(c)  
    Amounts written off as uncollectible or transferred to other accounts or utilized.      

(d)  
    Reductions to valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets.      
         28   

Table of Contents  

Signatures    
    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.       

VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.  

By:  
     
  /s/    Robert J. Barish  

Date:  February 26, 2013   

Robert J. Barish  
          Senior Vice President and Controller   

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by
the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

Principal Executive Officer:   

/s/    Lowell C. McAdam             Lowell C. McAdam   
      
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   
     
  February 26, 2013   

Principal Financial Officer:  

/s/    Francis J. Shammo             Francis J. Shammo   
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   
     
  February 26, 2013   

Principal Accounting Officer:  

/s/    Robert J. Barish             Robert J. Barish   
      
    Senior Vice President and Controller   
     
  February 26, 2013   
 
         29   

Table of Contents  

30   

<EX-12>
 2
 d441535dex12.htm
 EX-12

EX-12 

EXHIBIT 12        Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges        Verizon Communications
Inc. and Subsidiaries        

(1)      
    We classify interest expense recognized on uncertain tax positions as income tax expense and therefore such interest expense is not included in the
Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.      

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 3
 d441535dex13.htm
 EX-13

EX-13 

Exhibit 13    

Selected Financial Data Verizon
Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries     

Significant events affecting our historical earnings trends in 2010 through 2012 are described in  Other Items  in the
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  section.          

2009 and 2008 data includes severance, pension and benefit charges, merger integration and acquisition costs, dispositions and other items.

Stock Performance
Graph     
    Comparison of Five-Year Total Return Among Verizon,   
  S P 500 Telecommunications Services Index and S P 500 Stock Index   

The graph compares the cumulative total returns of Verizon, the S P 500 Telecommunications Services
Index, and the S P 500 Stock Index over a five-year period. It assumes $100 was invested on December 31, 2007 with dividends (including the value of each respective spin-off) being reinvested.   

Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations     

Overview     
    Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon or the Company) is a holding company that, acting through its
subsidiaries is one of the world s leading providers of communications, information and entertainment products and services to consumers, businesses and governmental agencies with a presence in over 150 countries around the world. Our
offerings, designed to meet customers  demand for speed, mobility, security and control, include voice, data and video services on our wireless and wireline networks. We have two reportable segments, Verizon Wireless and Wireline. Our wireless
business, operating as Verizon Wireless, provides voice and data services and equipment sales across the United States using one of the most extensive and reliable wireless networks. Our wireline business provides consumer, business and government
customers with communications products and services, including voice, broadband data and video services, network access, long distance and other communications products and services, and also owns and operates one of the most expansive end-to-end
global Internet Protocol (IP) networks. We have a highly skilled, diverse and dedicated workforce of approximately 183,400 employees as of December 31, 2012.      In recent years Verizon has embarked upon a strategic transformation as advances in technology have changed the ways that our customers interact in their personal and professional lives and that
businesses operate. To meet the changing needs of our customers and address the changing technological landscape, we are focusing our efforts around higher margin and growing areas of our business: wireless data, wireline data and Strategic
services, including cloud computing services.      Our strategy requires significant capital investments primarily to acquire
wireless spectrum, put the spectrum into service, expand the fiber optic network that supports our wireless and wireline businesses, maintain our wireless and wireline networks and develop and maintain significant advanced database capacity.
     In our Wireless business, in 2012 compared to 2011, strong revenue growth of 8.1% was driven by connection growth and strong
demand for smartphones and Internet data devices. During 2012, we experienced a 4.3% increase in retail postpaid connections per account compared to 2011, with smartphones representing 58.1% of our retail postpaid phone base at December 31,
2012.      As of January 22, 2013, our fourth-generation (4G) Long-Term Evolution (LTE) network has been deployed in 476
markets covering more than 273 million people throughout the country, which is nearly 89% of the U.S. population. We expect to continue to deploy 4G LTE during 2013 and by year-end cover nearly our entire existing 3G network footprint. Our 4G
LTE network provides higher data throughput performance for data services at lower cost compared to those offered by 3G technologies. As of December 31, 2012, nearly 50% of our wireless data traffic was on our 4G LTE network.   
  In 2012, Verizon Wireless launched the Share Everything plans, which were made available to both new and existing postpaid customers.
These plans feature domestic unlimited voice minutes, unlimited text, video and picture messaging and a single data allowance that can be shared among up to 10 devices connected to the Verizon Wireless network. For an additional monthly access fee,
our customers have the option of sharing long distance and roaming minutes among their devices for calls from the United States to, and calls while within, Canada and Mexico. The Share Everything plans also include the Mobile Hotspot service on our
smartphones at no additional charge. The Mobile Hotspot service allows a customer to use our network to create a Wi-Fi network that can be used by Wi-Fi enabled devices. In January 2013, Verizon Wireless announced it will begin offering shared data
plans for business, with the Share Everything plans for Small Business and the Nationwide Business Data Packages and Plans. As of December 31, 2012, Share Everything accounts represented approximately 23% of our retail postpaid accounts.
     In Wireline, during 2012 compared to 2011, revenues were positively impacted by higher revenues in Consumer retail driven by
FiOS services. FiOS represented approximately 65% of Consumer retail revenue during 2012, compared to approximately 58% during 2011. As the FiOS products mature, we continue to seek ways to increase incremental revenue and further realize operating
and capital efficiencies as well as maximize profitability. As more applications are developed for this high-speed service, we expect that FiOS will become a hub for managing a multitude of home services that will eventually be part of the digital
grid, including not just entertainment and communications, but also machine-to-machine communications, such as home monitoring, home health care, energy management and utilities management.   
  Also positively impacting Wireline s revenues during 2012 was a 6.3% increase in Strategic services revenue, which represented 53%
of total Global Enterprise revenues during 2012. However, total Global Enterprise and Global Wholesale revenues declined as customers continue to be adversely affected by the economy, resulting in decreased discretionary spending and delayed
purchasing decisions. To compensate for the shrinking market for traditional voice service, we continue to build our Wireline segment around data, video and advanced business services areas where demand for reliable high-speed connections is
growing.      In 2012, we reached agreements with the Communications Workers of America and the International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers on new, three-year contracts that cover approximately 43,000 Wireline employees. The new agreements will expire on August 1, 2015.      During 2012 and 2011, we made several strategic investments to improve our competitive position:       

In 2012, we completed separate transactions with SpectrumCo, LLC (SpectrumCo) and Cox TMI Wireless, LLC to acquire Advanced Wireless Service (AWS)
spectrum. We also completed a series of purchase and exchange transactions for AWS and PCS licenses and a      

700 megahertz (MHz) lower A block license. In addition, during January 2013, we agreed to sell a portion of our 700 MHz B block licenses, which upon receipt of regulatory approval, will result in
the completion of our previously announced open sale process for all of our 700 MHz lower A and B block spectrum licenses. These transactions will allow us to meet the continued demand for wireless services.      

On June 1, 2012, we agreed to acquire HUGHES Telematics for approximately $12 per share in cash for a total acquisition price of $0.6 billion
and we completed the acquisition on July 26, 2012. The acquisition has accelerated our ability to bring more telematics offerings to market for existing and new HUGHES Telematics and Verizon customers.      

In February 2012, we entered into a venture with Redbox Automated Retail, LLC, a subsidiary of Coinstar, Inc., to offer customers nationwide access
to media rentals through online and mobile content streaming as well as physical media rentals through Redbox kiosks. In December 2012, the venture introduced its product portfolio, which includes subscription services, under the name Redbox Instant
by Verizon.         

In 2011, Verizon Wireless entered into commercial agreements, modified in 2012, with affiliates of Comcast Corporation, Time Warner Cable, Bright
House Networks and Cox Communications Inc. (the cable companies). Through these agreements, the cable companies and Verizon Wireless became agents to sell certain of one another s products and services and, over time, the cable companies will
have the option, subject to the terms and conditions of the agreements, of selling Verizon Wireless service on a wholesale basis.          

In 2011, we acquired Terremark Worldwide Inc. (Terremark), a global provider of information technology infrastructure and cloud services. This
acquisition enhanced our competitive position in managed hosting and cloud services offerings to business and government customers globally and is contributing to our growth in revenues. Additionally, in 2011, we acquired a provider of cloud
software technology, which has further enhanced our offerings of cloud services. We expect our provisioning of cloud services to be instrumental to our future growth as it allows us to meet the evolving demands of our customers.
        Investing in innovative technology like wireless networks, high-speed fiber and cloud services has
positioned Verizon at the center of the growth trends of the future. By investing in our own capabilities, we are also investing in the markets we serve by making sure our communities have an efficient, reliable infrastructure for competing in the
information economy. We are committed to putting our customers first and being a responsible member of our communities. Guided by this commitment and by our core values of integrity, respect, performance excellence and accountability, we believe we
are well-positioned to produce a long-term return for our shareowners, create meaningful work for ourselves and provide something of lasting value for society.      During 2012, we purchased a single premium group annuity contract from The Prudential Insurance Company of America and Prudential Financial Inc.   
  In the sections that follow, we provide information about the important aspects of our operations and investments, both at the
consolidated and segment levels, and discuss our results of operations, financial position and sources and uses of cash. In addition, we highlight key trends and uncertainties to the extent practicable.   
    Trends        We expect
that competition will continue to intensify with traditional, non-traditional and emerging service providers seeking increased market share. We believe that our networks differentiate us from our competitors, enabling us to provide enhanced
communications experiences to our customers. We believe our focus on the fundamentals of running a good business, including operating excellence and financial discipline, gives us the ability to plan and manage through changing economic conditions.
We will continue to invest for growth, which we believe is the key to creating value for our shareowners.       Connection and Operating Trends
      In our Wireless segment, we expect to continue to attract and maintain the loyalty of high-quality retail postpaid
customers, capitalizing on demand for data services and bringing our customers new ways of using wireless services in their daily lives. We expect that future connection growth will continue as we introduce new smartphones, Internet devices such as
tablets and our suite of 4G LTE devices. We believe these devices will attract and retain higher value retail postpaid connections, contribute to continued increases in the penetration of data services and keep our device line-up competitive versus
other wireless carriers. We expect future growth opportunities will be dependent on expanding the penetration of our network services, offering innovative wireless devices for both consumer and business customers and increasing the number of ways
that our customers can connect with our network and services.      In recent years, we have experienced continuing access line
losses in our Wireline segment as customers have disconnected both primary and secondary lines and switched to alternative technologies such as wireless, VoIP and cable for voice and data services. We expect to continue to experience access line
losses as customers continue to switch to alternate technologies.      Despite this challenging environment, we expect that we
will continue to grow key aspects of our wireline business by providing superior network reliability, offering innovative product bundles that include high-speed Internet access, digital television and local and long distance voice services,

offering more robust IP products and service, and accelerating our cloud computing strategy. We will also continue to focus on cost efficiencies to attempt to offset adverse impacts from
unfavorable economic conditions and intense competitive pressure.       Operating Revenue    
  We expect to experience service revenue growth in our Verizon Wireless segment in 2013, primarily as a result of continued growth in
postpaid connections driven by increased sales of smartphones and other data-capable devices. We expect that retail postpaid average revenue per account (ARPA) will continue to increase as connections migrate from basic phones to smartphone devices
and as the average number of connections per account increases which we expect to be driven by our new Share Everything plans that allow for the sharing of data among up to 10 devices. We expect that our future service revenue growth will be
substantially derived from an increase in the sale and usage of innovative wireless smartphones and other data-capable devices in addition to our new pricing structure that will encourage customers to continue adding data-enabled devices onto
existing accounts.      During 2012, we experienced an increase in Wireless equipment and other revenue as a result of sales of
new smartphone devices, including our 4G LTE-capable devices. We expect that continued emphasis on increasing smartphone penetration will positively impact equipment revenue as these devices typically carry higher price points than basic phones.
     We expect FiOS broadband and video penetration to positively impact our Mass Markets revenue and subscriber base and we also
expect Strategic services revenue to continue to grow as we derive additional enterprise revenues from cloud, security and other solutions-based services and customers continue to migrate their services to Private IP and other strategic networking
services. We believe the trend in these growth areas as well as new offerings in telematics and video streaming will help offset the continuing decline in revenues in our Wireline segment related to retail voice connection losses as a result of
wireless substitution as well as the continued decline in our legacy wholesale and enterprise markets.       Operating Costs and Expenses
      We anticipate our overall wireless operating costs will increase as a result of the expected increase in the volume of
smartphone sales, which will result in higher equipment and sales commission costs. In addition, we expect content costs for our FiOS video services to continue to increase. However, we expect to achieve certain cost efficiencies in 2013 and beyond
as data traffic continues to migrate to our lower-cost 4G LTE network and as we continue to streamline our business processes with a focus on improving productivity and increasing profitability.   
   Capital Expenditures    
  Our 2013 capital program includes capital to fund advanced networks and services, including 4G LTE and FiOS, the continued expansion of
our core networks, including our IP and data center enhancements, maintenance and support for our legacy voice networks and other expenditures to drive operating efficiencies. The level and the timing of the Company s capital expenditures
within these broad categories can vary significantly as a result of a variety of factors outside our control, including, for example, material weather events. We are replacing damaged copper wire with fiber-optic cable which will not alter our
capital program but should result in lower maintenance costs. Capital expenditures were approximately $16 billion in 2012 and 2011, respectively. We believe that we have significant discretion over the amount and timing of our capital expenditures
on a Company-wide basis as we are not subject to any agreement that would require significant capital expenditures on a designated schedule or upon the occurrence of designated events. We expect capital expenditures as a percentage of revenue to
decline in 2013 from levels in 2012.       Cash Flow from Operations    
  We create value for our shareowners by investing the cash flows generated by our business in opportunities and transactions that support
continued profitable growth, thereby increasing customer satisfaction and usage of our products and services. In addition, we have used our cash flows to maintain and grow our dividend payout to shareowners. Verizon s Board of Directors
increased the Company s quarterly dividend by 3.0% during 2012, making this the sixth consecutive year in which we have raised our dividend.      Our goal is to use our cash to create long-term value for our shareholders. We will continue to look for investment opportunities that will help us to grow the business. When appropriate, we will also use
our cash to reduce our debt levels and to buy back shares of our outstanding common stock, and Verizon Wireless may make distributions to its partners (see  Cash Flows from Financing Activities ). There were no repurchases of common stock
during 2012, 2011 or 2010. Through February 15, 2013, we purchased approximately 3.50 million shares under our current share buyback authorization.       Other       We do not currently expect that legislative efforts relating
to climate control will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial results or financial condition. We believe there may be opportunities for companies to increase their use of communications services, including those we
provide, in order to minimize the environmental impact of their businesses.   

Consolidated Results of
Operations     
    In this section, we discuss our overall results of operations and highlight items of a non-operational
nature that are not included in our segment results. We have two reportable segments, Verizon Wireless and Wireline, which we operate and manage as strategic business units and organize by products and services. In  Segment Results of
Operations,  we review the performance of our two reportable segments.      Corporate, eliminations and other includes
unallocated corporate expenses such as certain pension and other employee benefit related costs, intersegment eliminations recorded in consolidation, the results of other businesses such as our investments in unconsolidated businesses, lease
financing and divested operations, and other adjustments and gains and losses that are not allocated in assessing segment performance due to their non-operational nature. Although such transactions are excluded from the business segment results,
they are included in reported consolidated earnings. Gains and losses that are not individually significant are included in all segment results as these items are included in the chief operating decision maker s assessment of segment
performance. We believe that this presentation assists users of our financial statements in better understanding our results of operations and trends from period to period.      Corporate, eliminations and other during 2010 included a one-time non-cash adjustment of $0.2 billion primarily to adjust wireless service revenues. This adjustment was recorded to properly defer
previously recognized wireless service revenues that were earned and recognized in future periods. The adjustment was not material to the consolidated financial statements (see  Other Items ). In addition, the results of operations related
to the divestitures we completed in 2010 (see  Acquisitions and Divestitures ) are included in Corporate, eliminations and other, as follows:       

Consolidated Revenues    
     
     2012 Compared to 2011       The increase in consolidated revenues during 2012 compared to 2011 was primarily due to higher revenues at Verizon Wireless, as well as higher Mass Markets revenues driven by FiOS services and increased
Strategic services revenues within Global Enterprise at our Wireline segment. Partially offsetting these increases were lower Global Wholesale and Global Enterprise Core revenues at our Wireline segment.   
  Verizon Wireless  revenues increased during 2012 compared to 2011 due to growth in both service and equipment and other revenue.
Service revenue increased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily driven by higher retail postpaid service revenue, which increased largely as a result of an increase in retail postpaid connections of 5.1 million in 2012, as well as the
continued increase in penetration of higher priced smartphones. Retail postpaid connections per account increased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to the increased use of tablets and other Internet devices. In

2012, the increase in retail postpaid connection net additions was primarily due to an increase in retail postpaid and prepaid connection gross additions and improvements in our retail
connections churn rate. Higher retail postpaid connection gross additions during 2012 primarily reflect the launch of our Share Everything plans coupled with new device introductions during the second half of 2012.   
  Equipment and other revenue increased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to an increase in device upgrade fees, regulatory fees
and equipment sales.      Wireline s revenues decreased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily driven by declines in Global
Wholesale, Global Enterprise Core and Other revenues, partially offset by higher revenues in Mass Markets driven by FiOS services and higher revenues from Strategic services.      Mass Markets revenues increased during 2012 compared to 2011 due to the expansion of FiOS services (Voice, Internet and Video) as well as changes in our pricing strategy adopted in 2012, partially offset
by the continued decline of local exchange revenues.      Global Enterprise revenues decreased during 2012 compared to 2011
primarily due to lower local services and traditional circuit-based revenues, a decline in customer premise equipment revenues and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation. This decrease was partially offset by higher Strategic
services revenues, primarily due to growth in advanced services, such as managed network solutions, contact center solutions, IP communications and our cloud and data center offerings.   
  Global Wholesale revenues decreased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to a decline in traditional voice revenues as a result of
decreased minutes of use (MOUs) and a decline in domestic wholesale connections, partially offset by continuing demand for high-speed digital data services from fiber-to-the-cell customers upgrading their core data circuits to Ethernet facilities as
well as Ethernet migrations from other core customers.      Other revenues decreased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to
reduced volumes, including former MCI mass market customer losses.       2011 Compared to 2010    
  The increase in consolidated revenues during 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to higher revenues at Verizon Wireless, the expansion
of FiOS services and increased revenues from Strategic services at our Wireline segment. In addition, the increase during 2011 was partially offset by the impact of divested operations.   
  The increase in Verizon Wireless  revenues during 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to growth in both service and equipment
revenue. Service revenue increased during 2011 compared to 2010 primarily driven by higher retail postpaid service revenue, which increased as a result of an increase in retail postpaid connections of 4.3 million in 2011 as well as the
continued increase in penetration of higher priced smartphones. Retail postpaid connections per account increased during 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to the increased use of tablets and other Internet devices.   
  Equipment and other revenue increased during 2011 compared to 2010 due to an increase in the sales volume of smartphones to new and
upgrading customers.      The decrease in Wireline s revenues during 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily driven by declines
in Global Wholesale, and Global Enterprise Core and Other revenues. The decrease in Global Wholesale revenues was primarily due to a $0.4 billion decline in international voice revenues as a result of decreased MOUs in traditional voice products as
a result of increases in voice termination pricing on certain international routes. Global Enterprise Core revenues declined primarily due to lower customer premise equipment revenues, reflecting our focus on improving margins by de-emphasizing
sales of equipment that are not a part of an overall enterprise solutions bundle, as well as customers migrating to next generation IP services. Other Wireline revenue also decreased primarily as a result of former MCI mass market customer losses.
These revenue declines were partially offset by continued revenue growth in Global Enterprise Strategic services, in part due to the inclusion of the revenues of Terremark, and in Mass Markets, primarily due to the expansion of FiOS services (Voice,
Internet and Video), partially offset by the decline of local exchange revenues.   

Consolidated Operating Expenses    
     
    Consolidated operating expenses increased during 2012 and 2011 primarily due to higher non-operational
charges (see  Other Items ) as well as increased operating expenses at Verizon Wireless. The changes in consolidated operating expenses during 2011 were also favorably impacted by divested operations.   
   2012 Compared to 2011        Cost of
Services and Sales       Cost of services and sales includes the following costs directly attributable to a service or product:
salaries and wages, benefits, materials and supplies, content costs, contracted services, network access and transport costs, wireless equipment costs, customer provisioning costs, computer systems support, costs to support our outsourcing contracts
and technical facilities and contributions to the Universal Service Fund. Aggregate customer care costs, which include billing and service provisioning, are allocated between Cost of services and sales and Selling, general and administrative
expense.      Cost of services and sales increased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to higher cost of equipment sales,
increased cost of network services and increased data roaming, partially offset by a decrease in cost for data services, a decrease in network connection costs and a decrease in the cost of long distance at our Verizon Wireless segment. Also
contributing to the increase were higher content costs associated with continued FiOS subscriber growth and vendor rate increases, increased expenses related to our cloud and data center offering, higher costs related to FiOS installation as well as
higher repair and maintenance expenses caused by storm-related events in 2012, partially offset by declines in access costs and customer premise equipment costs at our Wireline segment.       Selling, General and Administrative Expense       Selling, general and
administrative expense includes: salaries and wages and benefits not directly attributable to a service or product; bad debt charges; taxes other than income taxes; advertising and sales commission costs; customer billing; call center and
information technology costs; regulatory fees; professional service fees; and rent and utilities for administrative space. Also included are a portion of the aggregate customer care costs as discussed above.   
  Selling, general and administrative expense increased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to higher non-operational charges noted
in the table below as well as higher sales commission expense and costs associated with regulatory fees at our Verizon Wireless segment.   
   Depreciation and Amortization Expense       Depreciation and amortization expense decreased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to a decrease in depreciable assets at our Wireline segment, partially offset by an increase in amortization
expense related to non-network software.       2011 Compared to 2010        Cost of Services and Sales       Cost of services and sales increased during
2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to higher cost of equipment sales at our Verizon Wireless segment, as well as increased costs at our Wireline segment related to repair and maintenance expenses caused by storm-related events during 2011, higher
content costs associated with continued FiOS subscriber growth and the acquisition of Terremark in the second quarter of 2011. Partially offsetting the increase were lower non-operational charges noted in the table below, a decrease in access costs
resulting primarily from management actions to reduce exposure to unprofitable international wholesale routes and declines in overall wholesale long distance volumes.       Selling, General and Administrative Expense       Selling, general and
administrative expense increased during 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to higher severance, pension and benefit charges and costs caused by storm-related events as well as higher sales commission expense at our Verizon Wireless segment.
Partially offsetting the   

increase was the absence of merger integration and acquisition related charges and access line spin-off charges during 2011 and a decrease in compensation expense at our Wireline segment.
      Depreciation and Amortization Expense       Depreciation and amortization expense increased during 2011 compared to 2010 as a result of growth in depreciable assets at our Wireless segment and the acquisition of Terremark in the second quarter of
2011, partially offset by lower non-operational charges noted in the table below and amortization expense as a result of a reduction in capitalized non-network software at our Wireline segment. The change in depreciation and amortization expense was
also partially attributable to the impact of divested operations.       Non-operational Charges    
  Non-operational charges included in operating expenses (see  Other Items ) were as follows:   
   
    See  Other Items  for a description of other non-operational items.

Consolidated Operating Income and EBITDA    
  Consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expenses (Consolidated EBITDA) and Consolidated Adjusted
EBITDA, which are presented below, are non-GAAP measures and do not purport to be alternatives to operating income as a measure of operating performance. Management believes that these measures are useful to investors and other users of our
financial information in evaluating operating profitability on a more variable cost basis as they exclude the depreciation and amortization expense related primarily to capital expenditures and acquisitions that occurred in prior years, as well as
in evaluating operating performance in relation to our competitors. Consolidated EBITDA is calculated by adding back interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense, equity in earnings of unconsolidated businesses and other income and
(expense), net to net income.      Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA is calculated by excluding the effect of non-operational items and
the impact of divested operations from the calculation of Consolidated EBITDA. Management believes that this measure provides additional relevant and useful information to investors and other users of our financial data in evaluating the
effectiveness of our operations and underlying business trends in a manner that is consistent with management s evaluation of business performance. See  Other Items  for additional details regarding these non-operational items and the
impact of divested operations.      Operating expenses include pension and benefit related charges based on actuarial assumptions,
including projected discount rates and an estimated return on plan assets. These estimates are updated in the fourth quarter to reflect actual return on plan assets and updated actuarial assumptions. The adjustment has been recognized in the income
statement during the fourth quarter or upon a remeasurement event pursuant to our accounting policy for the recognition of actuarial gains/losses.      It is management s intent to provide non-GAAP financial information to enhance the understanding of Verizon s GAAP financial information, and it should be considered by the reader in addition
to, but not instead of, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Each non-GAAP financial measure is presented along with the corresponding GAAP measure so as not to imply that more emphasis should be placed on the non-GAAP measure.
The non-GAAP financial information presented may be determined or calculated differently by other companies.       

(1)      
    Excludes non-operating charges included in Depreciation and amortization expense.      
  The changes in Consolidated Operating Income, Consolidated EBITDA and Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA in the table above were primarily a
result of the factors described in connection with operating revenues and operating expenses above.   

Other Consolidated Results    
     Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Businesses    
  Equity in earnings of unconsolidated businesses decreased $120 million, or 27.0%, in 2012 compared to 2011 and $64 million, or 12.6%, in
2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to lower earnings from operations at Vodafone Omnitel N.V. and, to a lesser extent, the devaluation of the Euro against the U.S. dollar.       Other Income and (Expense), Net       Additional information relating to Other
income and (expense), net is as follows:       
    nm   not meaningful   
  Other income and (expense), net decreased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily driven by higher fees of $1.1 billion related to the
early redemption of debt (see  Other Items ).      Other income and (expense), net decreased during 2011 compared to
2010 primarily driven by higher fees related to the early redemption of debt (see  Other Items ) and foreign exchange losses at our international wireline operations, partially offset by gains on sales of short-term investments.
      Interest Expense        
    Total interest costs on debt balances decreased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to a $2.7
billion decrease in average debt (see  Consolidated Financial Condition ) and a lower effective interest rate. Capitalized interest costs were lower in 2012 primarily due to our ongoing deployment of the 4G LTE network.   
  Total interest costs on debt balances decreased during 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to a $1.6 billion decrease in average debt
(see  Consolidated Financial Condition ) and a lower effective interest rate. Capitalized interest costs were lower in 2011 primarily due to our ongoing deployment of the 4G LTE network.   

Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes    
   
    nm not meaningful   
  The effective income tax rate is calculated by dividing the provision for income taxes by income before the provision for income
taxes. Our effective income tax rate is significantly lower than the statutory federal income tax rate for all years presented due to the inclusion of income attributable to Vodafone Group Plc. s (Vodafone) noncontrolling interest in the
Verizon Wireless partnership within our income before the provision for income taxes. In 2012, we recorded a tax benefit on income before the provision for income taxes, which resulted in a negative effective income tax rate. In this circumstance,
including the income attributable to Vodafone s noncontrolling interest in the Verizon Wireless partnership in our income before the provision for income taxes resulted in our negative effective tax rate being 300.3 percentage points higher
during 2012. In 2011 and 2010, we recorded a tax provision on income before the provision for income taxes and when we include the income attributable to Vodafone s noncontrolling interest in the Verizon Wireless partnership in our income
before the provision for income taxes it resulted in our effective income tax rate being 7.9 percentage points lower during 2011 and 29.8 percentage points lower during 2010.      The effective income tax rate for 2012 was (6.7)% compared to 2.7% for 2011. The negative effective income tax rate for 2012 and the decrease in the provision for income taxes during 2012 compared to 2011
was primarily due to lower income before income taxes as a result of higher severance, pension, and benefit charges as well as early debt redemption costs recorded in the current year.   
  The effective income tax rate in 2011 decreased to 2.7% from 19.4% in 2010. This decrease was primarily driven by lower income before
provision for income taxes as a result of higher pension and benefit charges recorded in 2011 as well as tax benefits from state valuation allowance reversals in 2011. The decrease was also due to a one-time, non-cash income tax charge of $1.0
billion recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2010 as a result of the enactment of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, both of which became law in March 2010
(collectively the Health Care Act). Under the Health Care Act, beginning in 2013, Verizon and other companies that receive a subsidy under Medicare Part D to provide retiree prescription drug coverage will no longer receive a federal income tax
deduction for the expenses incurred in connection with providing the subsidized coverage to the extent of the subsidy received. Because future anticipated retiree prescription drug plan liabilities and related subsidies are already reflected in
Verizon s financial statements, this change in law required Verizon to reduce the value of the related tax benefits recognized in its financial statements in the period during which the Health Care Act was enacted.   
  A reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to the effective income tax rate for each period is included in Note 12 to the
consolidated financial statements.       Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest    
   
    The increases in Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest during 2012 compared to 2011, and
2011 compared to 2010 were due to higher earnings in our Verizon Wireless segment, which has a 45% noncontrolling partnership interest attributable to Vodafone.   

Segment Results of
Operations     
    We have two reportable segments, Verizon Wireless and Wireline, which we operate and manage as strategic
business units and organize by products and services. We measure and evaluate our reportable segments based on segment operating income. The use of segment operating income is consistent with the chief operating decision maker s assessment of
segment performance.      Segment earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Segment EBITDA), which is
presented below, is a non-GAAP measure and does not purport to be an alternative to operating income as a measure of operating performance. Management believes that this measure is useful to investors and other users of our financial information in
evaluating operating profitability on a more variable cost basis as it excludes the depreciation and amortization expenses related primarily to capital expenditures and acquisitions that occurred in prior years, as well as in evaluating operating
performance in relation to our competitors. Segment EBITDA is calculated by adding back depreciation and amortization expense to segment operating income.      Verizon Wireless Segment EBITDA service margin, also presented below, is calculated by dividing Verizon Wireless Segment EBITDA by Verizon Wireless service revenues. Verizon Wireless Segment EBITDA
service margin utilizes service revenues rather than total revenues. Service revenues primarily exclude equipment revenues in order to reflect the impact of providing service to the wireless customer base on an ongoing basis. Verizon Wireline EBITDA
margin is calculated by dividing Wireline EBITDA by total Wireline revenues. You can find additional information about our segments in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.   

Verizon Wireless    
    Our Verizon Wireless segment is primarily comprised of Cellco Partnership doing business as Verizon
Wireless. Cellco Partnership is a joint venture formed in April 2000 by the combination of the U.S. wireless operations and interests of Verizon and Vodafone. Verizon owns a controlling 55% interest in Verizon Wireless and Vodafone owns the
remaining 45%. Verizon Wireless provides wireless communications services across one of the most extensive wireless networks in the United States.      We provide these services and equipment sales to consumer, business and government customers in the United States on a postpaid and prepaid basis. Postpaid connections represent individual lines of
service for which a customer is billed in advance a monthly access charge in return for a monthly network service allowance, and usage beyond the allowances is billed monthly in arrears. Our prepaid service enables individuals to obtain wireless
services without a long-term contract or credit verification by paying for all services in advance.      All financial results included in the
tables below reflect the consolidated results of Verizon Wireless.       Operating Revenues and Selected Operating Statistics    

(1)      
    As of end of period      

(2)      
    Excluding acquisitions and adjustments      

nm  
      not meaningful      
   2012 Compared to 2011    
  The increase in Verizon Wireless  total operating revenues during 2012 compared to 2011 was the result of growth in both service and
equipment and other revenue.       Accounts and Connections       Retail (non-wholesale) postpaid accounts represent retail customers under contract with Verizon Wireless that are directly served and managed by Verizon Wireless and use its branded services. Accounts
include single connection plans, family plans, Share Everything plans and corporate accounts. A single account may receive monthly wireless services for a variety of connected devices. Retail connections represent our retail customer device
connections. Churn is the rate at which service to a connection is terminated.         

Retail connections under an account may include smartphones, basic phones, Home Phone
Connect, Home Fusion, tablets, and other Internet devices. We expect to continue to experience retail connection growth based on the strength of our product offerings and network service quality. Retail connection net additions increased during 2012
compared to 2011 primarily due to an increase in retail postpaid and prepaid connection gross additions and improvements in our retail connections churn rate. Higher retail postpaid connection gross additions during 2012 primarily reflect the launch
of our Share Everything plans coupled with new device introductions during the second half of 2012.       Retail Postpaid Connections per
Account       Retail postpaid connections per account is calculated by dividing the total number of retail postpaid connections
by the average number of retail postpaid accounts in the period. Retail postpaid connections per account increased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to the increased use of tablets and other Internet devices.   
   Service Revenue       Service
revenue increased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily driven by higher retail postpaid service revenue, which increased largely as a result of an increase in retail postpaid connections of 5.1 million in 2012, as well as the continued
increase in penetration of higher priced smartphones. This increased penetration also contributed to the increase in our retail postpaid ARPA (the average revenue per account from retail postpaid accounts).   
  The increase in retail postpaid ARPA during 2012 compared to 2011 was primarily driven by increases in smartphone
penetration and retail postpaid connections per account. During 2012, we experienced a 4.3% increase in retail postpaid connections per account compared to 2011, with smartphones representing 58.1% of our retail postpaid phone base as of
December 31, 2012 compared to 43.5% as of December 31, 2011. The increase in retail postpaid connections per account is primarily due to increases in Internet data devices, which represented 9.3% of our retail postpaid connection base as
of December 31, 2012 compared to 8.1% as of December 31, 2011 primarily due to strong sales of tablets and
Jetpacks   TM   .   
  Other service revenue decreased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily as a result of a decrease in third party roaming revenue.
      Equipment and Other Revenue       Equipment and other revenue increased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to increases in device upgrade fees, regulatory fees and equipment sales.   
   2011 Compared to 2010    
  The increase in Verizon Wireless  total operating revenue during 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to growth in both service
and equipment revenue.       Accounts and Connections       Retail connections increased during 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to an increase in retail postpaid and prepaid connection gross additions as well as ongoing improvements in our retail connection
churn rate, both of which we believe were primarily the result of the strength of the devices in our product portfolio, including the Apple iPhone 4 and 4S, and our line-up of 3G and 4G Android and other 4G LTE capable devices, as well as the
reliability of our network.       Retail Postpaid Connections per Account    
  Retail postpaid connections per account increased during 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to the increased use of tablets and other
Internet devices.       Service Revenue       Service revenue increased during 2011 compared to 2010 primarily driven by higher retail postpaid service revenue which increased as a result of an increase in retail postpaid connections of
4.3 million as well as the continued increase in penetration of higher priced smartphones, which also contributed to the increase in our retail postpaid ARPA.      The increase in retail postpaid ARPA for 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily driven by increases in smartphone penetration and in retail postpaid connections per account. The proportion of our retail
postpaid phone base utilizing smartphones increased to 43.5% as of December 31, 2011 compared to 28.1% as of December 31, 2010 and retail postpaid connections per account increased by 4.1% during 2011 compared to 2010. The increase in
retail postpaid connections per account is primarily due to increases in Internet data devices, which represented 8.1% of our retail postpaid connection base as of December 31, 2011 compared to 7.0 % as of December 31, 2010 primarily
due to strong sales of Jetpacks.   

Other service revenue increased during 2011 compared to 2010 as a result of year-to-date
growth in wholesale and other connections, partially offset by a decrease in third party roaming revenue.       Equipment and Other Revenue
      Equipment and other revenue increased during 2011 compared to 2010 due to an increase in the sales volume of smartphones
to new and upgrading customers.       Operating Expenses        
     Cost of Services and Sales       Cost of services and sales increased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to $0.7 billion in higher cost of equipment sales, which was driven by increased sales of higher cost smartphones, increased
cost of network services and increased data roaming, partially offset by a decrease in cost for data services, a decrease in network connection costs due to the ongoing deployment of Ethernet backhaul facilities primarily targeted at sites upgrading
to 4G LTE and a decrease in the cost of long distance.      Cost of services and sales increased during 2011 compared to 2010
primarily due to higher costs of equipment sales. Cost of equipment sales increased by $4.9 billion driven by increased sales of higher cost smartphones, including Apple s iPhone 4 and 4S and other data-capable devices. In addition, cost
of services increased during 2011 due to higher wireless network costs resulting from an increase in local interconnection costs related to additional Evolution-Data Optimized (EV-DO) capacity to meet expected data usage demands as well as an
increase in Ethernet facilities costs that support the 4G LTE network. The increase in cost of services was also impacted by higher roaming costs incurred in markets divested during 2010 and increased data roaming. Partially offsetting these
increases was a decrease in costs for long distance and data services and applications.      Selling, General and Administrative Expense
      Selling, general and administrative expense increased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to higher sales
commission expense in our indirect channel as well as costs associated with regulatory fees. Indirect sales commission expense increased $1.3 billion during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily as a result of increases in the average commission per unit,
as the mix of units continues to shift toward smartphones and more customers activate data services.      Selling, general and
administrative expense increased during 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to higher sales commission expense in our indirect channel. Indirect sales commission expense increased $1.2 billion during 2011 compared to 2010 as a result of increases in
the average commission per unit, as the mix of units continues to shift toward data devices and more customers activate data services, and increased contract renewals in connection with equipment upgrades.   
   Depreciation and Amortization Expense       Depreciation and amortization expense was essentially unchanged during 2012 compared to 2011. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense during 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily driven by
growth in depreciable assets.   

Segment Operating Income and EBITDA    
   
    The changes in the table above during the periods presented were primarily a result of the factors
described in connection with operating revenues and operating expenses above.      Non-recurring or non-operational items excluded from Verizon
Wireless  Operating income were as follows:       

Wireline    
    The Wireline segment provides communications products and services including local exchange and long
distance voice service, broadband video and data, IP network services, network access and other services to consumers, small businesses and carriers in the United States, as well as to businesses and government customers both in the United States
and in over 150 other countries around the world.      Reclassifications have been made to reflect comparable operating results
for the spin-off of the operations included in the Frontier transaction, which we owned through June 30, 2010 (see  Acquisitions and Divestitures ).       Operating Revenues and Selected Operating Statistics        
       (1)    As of end of period      Wireline s revenues decreased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily driven by declines in Global Wholesale, Global Enterprise Core and Other revenues, partially offset by higher revenues in Consumer
retail driven by FiOS services and higher revenues from Strategic services.       Mass Markets    
  Mass Markets operations provide local exchange (basic service and end-user access) and long distance (including regional toll) voice
services, as well as broadband services (including high-speed Internet, FiOS Internet and FiOS Video) to Consumer retail and Small business subscribers.       2012 Compared to 2011       Mass Markets revenues increased during 2012 compared
to 2011 primarily due to the expansion of FiOS services (Voice, Internet and Video) as well as changes in our pricing strategy adopted in 2012, partially offset by the continued decline of local exchange revenues.   
  We have continued to grow our subscriber base and consistently improved penetration rates within our FiOS service areas during 2012. Also
contributing to the increase in revenue from FiOS services were changes in our pricing strategy adopted in 2012. As of December 31, 2012, we achieved penetration rates of 37.3% and 33.3% for FiOS Internet and FiOS Video, respectively, compared
to penetration rates of 35.5% and 31.5% for FiOS Internet and FiOS Video, respectively, at December 31, 2011.      Mass
Markets revenues were negatively impacted by the decline of local exchange revenues primarily due to a 6.1% decline in Consumer retail voice connections resulting primarily from competition and technology substitution with wireless, VoIP, broadband
and cable services. Total voice connections include traditional switched access lines in service as well as FiOS digital voice connections. There was also a decline in Small business retail voice connections, primarily reflecting challenging
economic conditions, competition and a shift to both IP and high-speed circuits.   

2011 Compared to 2010       Mass Markets revenues increased slightly during 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to the expansion of consumer and small business FiOS services (Voice, Internet, Video), partially offset by the
continued decline of local exchange revenues.      As we continued to expand the number of premises eligible to order FiOS
services and our sales and marketing efforts to attract new FiOS subscribers, we continued to grow our subscriber base and consistently improved penetration rates within our FiOS service areas. Our pricing strategy allows us to provide competitive
offerings to our customers and potential customers. As of December 31, 2011, we achieved penetration rates of 35.5% and 31.5% for FiOS Internet and FiOS Video, respectively, compared to penetration rates of 31.9% and 28.0% for FiOS Internet and
FiOS Video, respectively, at December 31, 2010.      Mass Markets revenues were negatively impacted by the decline of local
exchange revenues primarily due to a 7.2% decline in total voice connections, which resulted primarily from competition and technology substitution. Total voice connections include traditional switched access lines in service as well as FiOS digital
voice connections. The majority of the decline in total voice connections was sustained in the residential retail market, which experienced a 7.3% voice connection loss primarily due to substituting traditional landline services with wireless, VoIP,
broadband and cable services. There was also a 5.3% decline in small business retail voice connections, primarily reflecting challenging economic conditions, competition and a shift to both IP and high-speed circuits.   
   Global Enterprise    
  Global Enterprise offers Strategic services including network products and solutions, advanced communications services, and other core
communications services to medium and large business customers, multinational corporations and state and federal government customers.   
   2012 Compared to 2011    
  Global Enterprise revenues decreased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to lower local services and traditional circuit-based
revenues, a decline in customer premise equipment revenues and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation. Core services, which consist of traditional circuit-based services such as frame relay, private line and Asynchronous Transfer
Mode (ATM) services, declined compared to the similar period last year as our customer base continued to migrate to next generation IP services. The decline in customer premise equipment revenues reflects our focus on improving margins by continuing
to de-emphasize sales of equipment that is not part of an overall enterprise solutions bundle. This decrease was partially offset by higher Strategic services revenues. Strategic services revenues increased $0.5 billion, or 6.3% during 2012 compared
to 2011 primarily due to growth in advanced services, such as managed network solutions, contact center solutions, IP communications and our cloud and data center offerings.       2011 Compared to 2010       Global Enterprise Core and Other revenues increased
during 2011 compared to 2010 primarily driven by higher Strategic services revenues, in part due to the inclusion of the revenues of Terremark, partially offset by lower local services and traditional circuit-based revenues and decreased revenues
from the sale of customer premise equipment. Strategic services revenues increased $1.0 billion, or 15.2%, during 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to growth in advanced services. Traditional circuit-based services declined compared to the
similar period last year as our customer base continues to migrate to next generation IP services. The decline in customer premise equipment revenues reflects our focus on improving margins by de-emphasizing sales of equipment that is not a part of
an overall enterprise solutions bundle.       Global Wholesale       Global Wholesale provides communications services including data, voice and local dial tone and broadband services primarily to local, long distance and other carriers that use our facilities to provide
services to their customers.       2012 Compared to 2011       Global Wholesale revenues decreased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to a decline in traditional voice revenues as a result of decreased MOUs and a 5.3% decline in domestic wholesale
connections. The traditional voice product reductions are primarily due to the continued impact of competitors deemphasizing their local market initiatives coupled with the impact of technology substitution. Also contributing to the decline in voice
revenues is the elimination of low margin international products and the continuing contraction of market rates due to competition. Partially offsetting the overall decrease in wholesale revenue was a continuing demand for high-speed digital data
services from fiber-to-the-cell customers upgrading their core data circuits to Ethernet facilities as well as Ethernet migrations from other core customers. As a result of the customer upgrades, the number of core data circuits experienced a 9.6%
decline compared to the similar periods in 2011. We expect Global Wholesale revenue to continue to decline approximately 10% per quarter compared to the similar periods in the prior year, as we believe that the continued decline in core
products will only be partially offset by growth in Ethernet and IP services.       2011 Compared to 2010    
  The decrease in Global Wholesale revenues during 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to a $0.4 billion decline in international voice
revenues as a result of decreased MOUs in traditional voice products as a result of increases in voice termination pricing on certain international routes, which   

negatively impacted volume, and continued rate compression due to competition in the marketplace. Switched access and interexchange wholesale MOUs declined primarily as a result of wireless
substitution and connection losses. Domestic wholesale connections as of December 31, 2011 declined 8.3% from December 31, 2010 due to the continued impact of competitors deemphasizing their local market initiatives coupled with the impact
of technology substitution. Voice and local loop services declined during 2011 compared to 2010. Partially offsetting the overall decrease in Global Wholesale revenue was a continuing demand for high-speed digital data services primarily due to
fiber-to-the-cell customers upgrading their core data circuits to Ethernet facilities. As a result of the upgrading customers, the number of DS1/DS3 circuits experienced a 9.5% decline compared to the similar period in 2010.   
   Other       Other revenues
include such services as local exchange and long distance services from former MCI mass market customers and operator services. The decrease in revenues from other services during 2012 and 2011 was primarily due to reduced volumes, including former
MCI mass market customer losses.       Operating Expenses        
     Cost of Services and Sales       Cost of services and sales increased during 2012 compared to 2011, primarily due to higher content costs associated with continued FiOS subscriber growth and vendor rate increases and increased expenses
related to our cloud and data center offerings. Cost of services and sales was also impacted by higher costs related to FiOS installation, as well as higher repair and maintenance expenses caused by storm-related events in 2012 compared to 2011. The
increases were partially offset by a decline in access costs primarily from management actions to reduce exposure to unprofitable international wholesale routes and declines in overall wholesale long distance volumes. Costs related to customer
premise equipment also decreased, which reflects our focus on improving margins by de-emphasizing sales of equipment that are not part of an overall enterprise solutions bundle.   
  Cost of services and sales decreased during 2011 compared to 2010 due to a decrease in access costs resulting primarily from management
actions to reduce exposure to unprofitable international wholesale routes and declines in overall wholesale long distance volumes, as well as lower pension and other postretirement benefit expenses. The decrease was partially offset by higher costs
related to repair and maintenance expenses caused by storm-related events during the third quarter of 2011, content costs associated with continued FiOS subscriber growth and the acquisition of Terremark in the second quarter of 2011.   
   Selling, General and Administrative Expense       Selling, general and administrative expense decreased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to lower allocations related to centralized administrative functions, and to a lesser extent, lower
property and transaction tax expenses and employee costs.      Selling, general and administrative expense decreased during 2011
compared to 2010 primarily due to lower pension and other postretirement benefits and compensation expense, partially offset by higher costs caused by storm-related events in the third quarter of 2011, as well as the acquisition of Terremark in the
second quarter of 2011.       Depreciation and Amortization Expense       Depreciation and amortization expense decreased during 2012 compared to 2011 due to a decrease in net depreciable assets. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in amortization expense related
to non-network software.      Depreciation and amortization expense was effectively flat during 2011 compared to 2010 primarily
due to a decrease in amortization expense as a result of a reduction in capitalized non-network software, partially offset by an increase in depreciation expense primarily due to the acquisition of Terremark in the second quarter of 2011.

Segment Operating Income and EBITDA    
   
    The changes in Wireline s Operating income, Segment EBITDA and Segment EBITDA margin during the
periods presented were primarily a result of the factors described in connection with operating revenues and operating expenses above.   
  Non-recurring or non-operational items excluded from Wireline s Operating income were as follows:   

Other
Items     

Severance, Pension and Benefit Charges    
    During 2012, we recorded net pre-tax severance, pension and benefits charges of approximately $7.2 billion
primarily for our pension and postretirement plans in accordance with our accounting policy to recognize actuarial gains and losses in the year in which they occur. The charges were primarily driven by a decrease in our discount rate assumption used
to determine the current year liabilities from 5% at December 31, 2011 to a weighted-average of 4.2% at December 31, 2012 ($5.3 billion) and revisions to the retirement assumptions for participants and other assumption adjustments,
partially offset by the difference between our estimated return on assets of 7.5% and our actual return on assets of 10% ($0.7 billion). As part of this charge, we also recorded $1.0 billion related to the annuitization of pension liabilities (see
 Employee Benefit Plan Funded Status and Contributions ), as well as severance charges of $0.4 billion primarily for approximately 4,000 management employees.      During 2011, we recorded net pre-tax severance, pension and benefits charges of approximately $6.0 billion for our pension and postretirement plans in accordance with our accounting policy to recognize
actuarial gains and losses in the year in which they occur. The charges were primarily driven by a decrease in our discount rate assumption used to determine the current year liabilities from 5.75% at December 31, 2010 to 5% at
December 31, 2011 ($5.0 billion); the difference between our estimated return on assets of 8% and our actual return on assets of 5% ($0.9 billion); and revisions to the life expectancy of participants and other adjustments to assumptions.
     During 2010, we recorded net pre-tax severance, pension and benefits charges of $3.1 billion. The charges during 2010
included remeasurement losses of $0.6 billion, for our pension and postretirement plans in accordance with our accounting policy to recognize actuarial gains and losses in the year in which they occur. Additionally, in 2010, we reached an agreement
with certain unions on temporary enhancements to the separation programs contained in their existing collective bargaining agreements. These temporary enhancements were intended to help address a previously declared surplus of employees and to help
reduce the need for layoffs. Accordingly, we recorded severance, pension and benefits charges associated with approximately 11,900 union-represented employees who volunteered for the incentive offer. These charges included $1.2 billion for severance
for the 2010 separation programs mentioned above and a planned workforce reduction of approximately 2,500 employees in 2011. In addition, we recorded $1.3 billion for pension and postretirement curtailment losses and special termination benefits due
to the workforce reductions.      The Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA non-GAAP measure presented in the Consolidated Operating Income
and EBITDA discussion (See  Consolidated Results of Operations ) excludes the severance, pension and benefit charges presented above.       

Early Debt Redemption and Other Costs    
    During November 2012, we recorded debt redemption costs of $0.8 billion in connection with the purchase of
$0.9 billion of the $1.25 billion of 8.95% Verizon Communications Notes due 2039 in a cash tender offer.      During December
2012, we recorded debt redemption costs of $0.3 billion in connection with the early redemption of $0.7 billion of the $2.0 billion of 8.75% Verizon Communications Notes due 2018, $1.0 billion of 4.625% Verizon Virginia LLC Debentures, Series A, due
March 2013 and $0.75 billion of 4.35% Verizon Communications Notes due February 2013, as well as $0.3 billion of other costs.   
  During November 2011, we recorded debt redemption costs of $0.1 billion in connection with the early redemption of $1.0 billion of 7.375%
Verizon Communications Notes due September 2012, $0.6 billion of 6.875% Verizon Communications Notes due June 2012, $0.4 billion of 6.125% Verizon Florida Inc. Debentures due January 2013, $0.5 billion of 6.125% Verizon Maryland Inc. Debentures due
March 2012 and $1.0 billion of 6.875% Verizon New York Inc. Debentures due April 2012.      The Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA
non-GAAP measure presented in the Consolidated Operating Income and EBITDA discussion (See  Consolidated Results of Operations ) excludes the early debt redemption and other costs presented above.   

Litigation Settlements    
    In the third quarter of 2012, we settled a number of patent litigation matters, including cases with
ActiveVideo Networks Inc. (ActiveVideo) and TiVo Inc. (TiVo). In connection with the settlements with ActiveVideo and TiVo, we recorded a charge of $0.4 billion in the third quarter of 2012 and will pay and recognize over the next six years an
additional $0.2 billion.      The Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA non-GAAP measure presented in the Consolidated Operating Income and
EBITDA discussion (See  Consolidated Results of Operations ) excludes the litigation settlement costs presented above.   

Merger Integration Charges    
    During 2010, we recorded pre-tax merger integration charges of $0.9 billion primarily related to the
Alltel acquisition. These charges were primarily due to the decommissioning of overlapping cell sites, preacquisition contingencies, handset conversions and trade name amortization.   
  The Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA non-GAAP measure presented in the Consolidated Operating Income and EBITDA discussion (See
 Consolidated Results of Operations ) excludes the merger integration charges presented above.       

Dispositions    
     Access Line-Spin-off Related Charges       During 2010, we recorded pre-tax charges of $0.5 billion, primarily for costs incurred related to network, non-network software and other activities to enable the divested markets in the transaction with
Frontier to operate on a stand-alone basis subsequent to the closing of the transaction; professional advisory and legal fees in connection with this transaction; and fees related to the early extinguishment of debt from the use of proceeds from the
transaction (see  Acquisitions and Divestitures ).       Alltel Divestiture Markets    
  During the second quarter of 2010, we recorded a tax charge of approximately $0.2 billion for the taxable gain associated with the Alltel
Divestiture Markets (see  Acquisitions and Divestitures ).      The Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA non-GAAP measure
presented in the Consolidated Operating Income and EBITDA discussion (See  Consolidated Results of Operations ) excludes the access line spin-off and Alltel Divestiture Markets charges presented above.   

Medicare Part D Subsidy Charges    
    Under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act
of 2010, both of which became law in March 2010 (collectively the Health Care Act), beginning in 2013, Verizon and other companies that receive a subsidy under Medicare Part D to provide retiree prescription drug coverage will no longer receive a
federal income tax deduction for the expenses incurred in connection with providing the subsidized coverage to the extent of the subsidy received. Because future anticipated retiree prescription drug plan liabilities and related subsidies are
already reflected in Verizon s financial statements, this change in law required Verizon to reduce the value of the related tax benefits recognized in its financial statements in the period during which the Health Care Act was enacted. As a
result, Verizon recorded a one-time, non-cash income tax charge of $1.0 billion in the first quarter of 2010 to reflect the impact of this change.      The Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA non-GAAP measure presented in the Consolidated Operating Income and EBITDA discussion (See  Consolidated Results of Operations ) excludes the Medicare Part D
subsidy charges presented above.       

Deferred Revenue Charges    
    Corporate, eliminations and other during the periods presented include a non-cash adjustment of $0.2
billion in 2010, primarily to adjust wireless service revenues. This adjustment was recorded to properly defer previously recognized wireless service revenues that were earned and recognized in future periods. The adjustment was recorded during
2010, which reduced Net income attributable to Verizon by approximately $0.1 billion.      The Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA
non-GAAP measure presented in the Consolidated Operating Income and EBITDA discussion (See  Consolidated Results of Operations ) excludes the deferred revenue charges presented above.   

Consolidated Financial
Condition          
    We use the net cash generated from our operations to fund network expansion and modernization, repay
external financing, pay dividends, repurchase Verizon common stock from time to time and invest in new businesses. Our sources of funds, primarily from operations and, to the extent necessary, from external financing arrangements, are sufficient to
meet ongoing operating and investing requirements. We expect that our capital spending requirements will continue to be financed primarily through internally generated funds. Debt or equity financing may be needed to fund additional development
activities or to maintain an appropriate capital structure to ensure our financial flexibility. Our cash and cash equivalents are primarily held domestically in diversified accounts and are invested to maintain principal and liquidity. Accordingly,
we do not have significant exposure to foreign currency fluctuations.      The volatility in world debt and equity markets has not
had a significant impact on our ability to access external financing. Our available external financing arrangements include the issuance of commercial paper, credit available under credit facilities and other bank lines of credit, vendor financing
arrangements, issuances of registered debt or equity securities and privately-placed capital market securities.      On
February 7, 2012, we filed a new shelf registration statement for the issuance of debt or equity securities with an aggregate offering price of up to $10 billion. In connection with this filing, the previous shelf registration statement
was terminated. As of December 31, 2012, the shelf registration had an aggregate offering price of up to $5.5 billion. We may also issue short-term debt through an active commercial paper program and have a $6.2 billion credit facility to
support such commercial paper issuances.       

Cash Flows Provided By Operating Activities    
    Our primary source of funds continues to be cash generated from operations, primarily from Verizon
Wireless. Net cash provided by operating activities during 2012 increased by $1.7 billion compared to 2011 primarily due to higher consolidated earnings, as well as improved working capital levels, due to timing differences, partially offset by an
increase in pension contributions. Net cash provided by operating activities during 2012 and 2011 included net distributions received from Vodafone Omnitel of $0.3 billion and $0.4 billion, respectively.   
  Net cash provided by operating activities during 2011 decreased by $3.6 billion compared to 2010 primarily due to purchases for wireless
devices, cash flows from divested operations (see  Acquisitions and Divestitures ) and higher pension plan contributions. Net cash provided by operating activities during 2011 and 2010 included net distributions received from Vodafone
Omnitel of $0.4 billion in each year.       

Cash Flows Used In Investing Activities    
     Capital Expenditures       Capital expenditures continue to be our primary use of capital resources as they facilitate the introduction of new products and services, enhance responsiveness to competitive challenges and increase the
operating efficiency and productivity of our networks.      Capital expenditures, including capitalized software, were as follows:   

Capital expenditures declined slightly at Verizon Wireless in 2012 compared to 2011 due to
the decreased investment in the capacity of our wireless EV-DO network, partially offset by the increased build-out of our 4G LTE network. Capital expenditures declined slightly at Wireline due to lower legacy spending requirements.   
  The increase in capital expenditures at Verizon Wireless during 2011 was primarily due to the increased investment in the capacity of our
wireless EV-DO network, as well as the build-out of our 4G LTE network. The decrease in capital expenditures at Wireline during 2011 was primarily due to capital expenditures in 2010 related to the local exchange business and related activities that
were spun off to Frontier, as well as lower capital expenditures related to the build-out of FiOS.       Acquisitions    
  During 2012, 2011 and 2010, we invested $3.9 billion, $0.2 billion and $0.8 billion, respectively, in acquisitions of wireless licenses,
net. During 2012, 2011 and 2010, we also invested $0.9 billion, $1.8 billion and $0.7 billion, respectively, in acquisitions of investments and businesses, net of cash acquired.   

During 2012, we paid approximately $3.9 billion net to acquire wireless licenses primarily to meet future LTE capacity needs and enable LTE
expansion. Additionally, during 2012, we acquired HUGHES Telematics, a provider of telematics services, for $0.6 billion. See  Acquisitions and Divestitures  for additional details.      

During April 2011, we paid approximately $1.4 billion for the equity of Terremark, which was partially offset by $0.1 billion of cash acquired (see
 Acquisitions and Divestitures ) .  See  Cash Flows From Financing Activities  below regarding the debt obligations of Terremark that were repaid during May 2011. In addition, during 2011, we acquired various wireless
licenses and markets as well as a provider of cloud software technology for cash consideration that was not significant.          

On August 23, 2010, Verizon Wireless acquired the net assets and related customers of six operating markets in Louisiana and Mississippi in a
transaction with AT T Inc. for cash consideration of $0.2 billion.          Dispositions    
  During 2012, we received cash consideration that was not significant related to the sale of some of our 700 MHz lower A and B block
spectrum licenses. We acquired these licenses as part of FCC Auction 73 in 2008.      During 2010, we received cash proceeds of
$2.6 billion in connection with the sale of the Alltel Divestiture Markets (see  Acquisitions and Divestitures ).       Other, net
      During 2011, Other, net primarily included proceeds related to the sales of long-term investments, which were not
significant to our consolidated statements of income.       

Cash Flows Used In Financing Activities    
    We seek to maintain a mix of fixed and variable rate debt to lower borrowing costs within reasonable risk
parameters and to protect against earnings and cash flow volatility resulting from changes in market conditions. During 2012, 2011 and 2010, net cash used in financing activities was $21.3 billion, $5.8 billion and $13.7 billion, respectively.
      2012       During
January 2012, $1.0 billion of 5.875% Verizon New Jersey Inc. Debentures matured and were repaid. During February 2012, $0.8 billion of 5.25% Verizon Wireless Notes matured and were repaid. During July 2012, $0.8 billion of 7.0% Verizon Wireless
Notes matured and were repaid. In addition, during 2012 we utilized $0.2 billion under fixed rate vendor financing facilities.   
  On November 2, 2012, we announced the commencement of a tender offer (the Tender Offer) to purchase for cash any and all of the
outstanding $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 8.95% Verizon Communications Notes due 2039. In the Tender Offer that was completed November 9, 2012, $0.9 billion aggregate principal amount of the notes was purchased and $0.35 billion
principal amount of the notes remains outstanding. Any accrued and unpaid interest on the principal purchased was paid to the date of purchase.      During November 2012, we issued $4.5 billion aggregate principal amount of fixed rate notes at varying maturities resulting in cash proceeds of approximately $4.47 billion, net of discounts and issuance
costs. The net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes, for the Tender Offer,   

and to redeem $0.7 billion of $2.0 billion of 8.75% Verizon Communications Notes due 2018, $1.0 billion of 4.625% Verizon Virginia LLC Debentures, Series A due 2013 and $0.75 billion of 4.35%
Verizon Communications Notes due 2013.      In addition, during 2012, various fixed rate notes totaling approximately $0.2 billion
were repaid and any accrued and unpaid interest was paid to the date of payment.      See  Other Items  regarding the early debt
redemption costs incurred in connection with the aforementioned repurchases and redemptions.       2011    
  During 2011, proceeds from long-term borrowings totaled $11.1 billion, which was primarily used to repay outstanding debt, redeem higher
interest bearing debt maturing in the near term and for other general corporate purposes.      During 2011, $0.5 billion of 5.35%
Verizon Communications Notes matured and were repaid, and we utilized $0.3 billion under fixed rate vendor financing facilities.      During March 2011, we issued $6.25 billion aggregate principal amount of fixed and floating rate notes at varying maturities resulting in cash proceeds of approximately $6.19 billion, net of discounts and
issuance costs. The net proceeds were used for the repayment of commercial paper and other general corporate purposes, as well as to redeem $2.0 billion aggregate principal amount of telephone subsidiary debt during April 2011.   
  The debt obligations of Terremark that were outstanding at the time of its acquisition by Verizon were repaid during the second quarter
of 2011.      During November 2011, we issued $4.6 billion aggregate principal amount of fixed rate notes at varying maturities
resulting in cash proceeds of approximately $4.55 billion, net of discounts and issuance costs. During November 2011, the net proceeds were used to redeem $1.6 billion aggregate principal amount of Verizon Communications notes and $1.9 billion
aggregate principal amount of telephone subsidiary debt. The remaining net proceeds were used for the repayment of commercial paper and other general corporate purposes. See  Other Items  regarding the early debt redemption costs incurred
in connection with the aforementioned redemptions.      During December 2011, we repaid $0.9 billion upon maturity for the
 0.7 billion of 7.625% Verizon Wireless Notes, and the related cross currency swap was settled. During May 2011, $4.0 billion Verizon Wireless two-year fixed and floating rate notes matured and were repaid.   
   2010       During 2010,
Verizon received approximately $3.1 billion in cash in connection with the completion of the spin-off and merger of Spinco (see  Acquisitions and Divestitures ). This special cash payment was subsequently used to redeem $2.0 billion of
7.25% Verizon Communications Notes due December 2010 at a redemption price of 102.7% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, as well as other short-term borrowings. During 2010, $0.3 billion
of 6.125% and $0.2 billion of 8.625% Verizon New York Inc. Debentures, $0.2 billion of 6.375% Verizon North Inc. Debentures and $0.2 billion of 6.3% Verizon Northwest Inc. Debentures matured and were repaid. In addition, during 2010 Verizon repaid
$0.2 billion of floating rate vendor financing debt.      In 2010, Verizon Wireless exercised its right to redeem the outstanding
$1.0 billion of aggregate floating rate notes due June 2011 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption. In addition, during 2010, Verizon Wireless repaid the
remaining $4.0 billion of borrowings that were outstanding under a $4.4 billion Three-Year Term Loan Facility Agreement with a maturity date of September 2011 (Three-Year Term Loan Facility). As there were no borrowings outstanding under this
facility, it was cancelled.       Special Distributions       In November 2012, the Board of Representatives of Verizon Wireless declared a distribution to its owners, which was paid in the fourth quarter of 2012 in proportion to their partnership interests on the
payment date, in the aggregate amount of $8.5 billion. As a result, Vodafone received a cash payment of $3.8 billion and the remainder of the distribution was received by Verizon.   
  In July 2011, the Board of Representatives of Verizon Wireless declared a distribution to its owners, which was paid in the first
quarter of 2012 in proportion to their partnership interests on the payment date, in the aggregate amount of $10 billion. As a result, Vodafone received a cash payment of $4.5 billion and the remainder of the distribution was received by Verizon.

Other, net       The change in Other, net financing activities during 2012 compared to the prior year was primarily driven by higher distributions to Vodafone, which owns a 45% noncontrolling interest in Verizon Wireless
and higher early debt redemption costs (see  Other Items ). The change in Other, net financing activities during 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily driven by lower distributions to Vodafone.   
   Dividends       The Verizon
Board of Directors determines the appropriateness of the level of our dividend payments on a periodic basis by considering such factors as long-term growth opportunities, internal cash requirements and the expectations of our shareowners. During the
third quarter of 2012, the Board increased our quarterly dividend payment 3.0% to $.515 per share from $.50 per share in the same period of 2011. This is the sixth consecutive year that Verizon s Board of Directors has approved a quarterly
dividend increase. During the third quarter of 2011, the Board increased our quarterly dividend payment 2.6% to $.50 per share from $.4875 per share in the same period of 2010. During the third quarter of 2010, the Board increased our quarterly
dividend payment 2.6% to $.4875 per share from $.475 per share in the same period of 2009.      During 2012, we paid $5.2 billion
in dividends compared to $5.6 billion in 2011 and $5.4 billion in 2010. As in prior periods, dividend payments were a significant use of capital resources. While the dividends declared per common share increased, the total amount of cash dividends
paid decreased during 2012 compared with 2011 as a portion of the dividends was satisfied through the issuance of common shares from Treasury stock, as noted below (see  Common Stock ).   
   Credit Facility       As of
December 31, 2012, the unused borrowing capacity under a $6.2 billion three-year credit facility with a group of major financial institutions was approximately $6.1 billion. On August 13, 2012, we amended our credit facility primarily to
reduce fees and borrowing costs and extend the maturity date to August 12, 2016. The credit facility does not require us to comply with financial covenants or maintain specified credit ratings, and it permits us to borrow even if our business
has incurred a material adverse change. We use the credit facility to support the issuance of commercial paper, for the issuance of letters of credit and for general corporate purposes.   
  Net Debt and the Net Debt to Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA ratio are non-GAAP financial measures that management believes are useful to
investors and other users of our financial information in evaluating Verizon s leverage. Net Debt is calculated by subtracting cash and cash equivalents from the sum of debt maturing within one year and long-term debt. For purposes of the Net
Debt to Adjusted EBITDA Ratio, Adjusted EBITDA (See  Consolidated Results of Operations ) is calculated for the last 12 months. Management believes this presentation assists investors in understanding trends that are indicative of future
operating results given the non-operational or non-recurring nature of the items excluded from the calculation.   
  Verizon s ratio of net debt to Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA was 1.3x at December 31, 2012 and 1.2x at December 31, 2011.
Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA excludes the effects of non-operational items (see  Other Items ).       Common Stock    
  Common stock has been used from time to time to satisfy some of the funding requirements of employee and shareowner plans, including
24.6 million common shares issued from Treasury stock during 2012, related to dividend payments, which had an aggregate value of $1.0 billion. On February 3, 2011, the Board of Directors replaced the previously authorized share buyback
program with a new program for the repurchase of up to 100 million common shares terminating no later than the close of business on February 28, 2014. The Board also determined that no additional shares were to be purchased under the prior
program. Through February 15, 2013, we purchased approximately 3.50 million shares under this authorization.      There were no
repurchases of common stock during 2012, 2011 or 2010.       Credit Ratings    
  The debt securities of Verizon Communications and its subsidiaries continue to be accorded high ratings by the three primary rating
agencies.      Although a one-level ratings downgrade would not be expected to significantly impact our access to capital, it
could increase both the cost of refinancing existing debt and the cost of financing any new capital requirements. Securities ratings assigned by rating organizations are expressions of opinion and are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold
securities. A securities rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.   
   Covenants       Our credit
agreements contain covenants that are typical for large, investment grade companies. These covenants include requirements to pay interest and principal in a timely fashion, pay taxes, maintain insurance with responsible and reputable insurance
companies, preserve our corporate   

existence, keep appropriate books and records of financial transactions, maintain our properties, provide financial and other reports to our lenders, limit pledging and disposition of assets and
mergers and consolidations, and other similar covenants.      We and our consolidated subsidiaries are in compliance with all debt covenants.

Increase (Decrease) In Cash and Cash Equivalents    
    Our Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2012 totaled $3.1 billion, a $10.3 billion decrease
compared to Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2011 for the reasons discussed above. Our Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2011 totaled $13.4 billion, a $6.7 billion increase compared to Cash and cash equivalents at
December 31, 2010 for the reasons discussed above.      As of December 31, 2012, Verizon Wireless cash and cash
equivalents and debt outstanding totaled $0.8 billion and $10.1 billion, respectively.       Free Cash Flow    
  Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure that management believes is useful to investors and other users of Verizon s financial
information in evaluating cash available to pay debt and dividends. Free cash flow is calculated by subtracting capital expenditures from net cash provided by operating activities. The following table reconciles net cash provided by operating
activities to Free cash flow:       
    The changes in free cash flow during 2012, 2011 and 2010 were a result of the factors described in
connection with net cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures above.       

Employee Benefit Plan Funded Status and Contributions    
     Pension Annuitization       On October 17, 2012, we, along with our subsidiary Verizon Investment Management Corp., and Fiduciary Counselors Inc., as independent fiduciary of the Verizon Management Pension Plan (the Plan),
entered into a definitive purchase agreement with The Prudential Insurance Company of America (Prudential) and Prudential Financial, Inc., pursuant to which the Plan would purchase a single premium group annuity contract from Prudential.   
  On December 10, 2012, upon issuance of the group annuity contract by Prudential, Prudential irrevocably assumed the obligation to
make future annuity payments to approximately 41,000 Verizon management retirees who began receiving pension payments from the Plan prior to January 1, 2010. The amount of each retiree s annuity payment equals the amount of such
individual s pension benefit. In addition, the group annuity contract is intended to replicate the same rights to future payments, such as survivor benefits, that are currently offered by the Plan.   
  We contributed approximately $2.6 billion to the Plan between September 1, 2012 and December 31, 2012 in connection with the
transaction so that the Plan s funding percentage would not decrease as a result of the transaction.       Employer Contributions
      We operate numerous qualified and nonqualified pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans. These plans primarily
relate to our domestic business units. During 2012 and 2011, we contributed $0.9 billion and $0.4 billion, respectively, to our qualified pension plans, excluding the pension annuitization discussed above. During 2010, contributions to our qualified
pension plans were not significant. We also contributed $0.2 billion, $0.1 billion and $0.1 billion to our nonqualified pension plans in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.      In an effort to reduce the risk of our portfolio strategy and better align assets with liabilities, we have shifted our strategy to one that is more liability driven, where cash flows from investments
better match projected benefit payments but result in lower asset returns. We intend to reduce the likelihood that assets will decline at a time when liabilities increase (referred to as liability hedging), with the goal to reduce the risk of
underfunding   

to the plan and its participants and beneficiaries. Based on the revised strategy and the funded status of the plans at December 31, 2012, we expect the minimum required qualified pension
plan contribution in 2013 to be immaterial. Nonqualified pension contributions are estimated to be approximately $0.1 billion in 2013.      Contributions to our other postretirement benefit plans generally relate to payments for benefits on an as-incurred basis since the other postretirement benefit plans do not have funding requirements
similar to the pension plans. We contributed $1.5 billion, $1.4 billion and $1.2 billion to our other postretirement benefit plans in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Contributions to our other postretirement benefit plans are estimated to be
approximately $1.5 billion in 2013.       

Leasing Arrangements    
    We are the lessor in leveraged and direct financing lease agreements for commercial aircraft and power
generating facilities, which comprise the majority of our leasing portfolio along with telecommunications equipment, commercial real estate property and other equipment. These leases have remaining terms of up to 38 years as of December 31,
2012. In addition, we lease space on certain of our cell towers to other wireless carriers. Minimum lease payments receivable represent unpaid rentals, less principal and interest on third-party nonrecourse debt relating to leveraged lease
transactions. Since we have no general liability for this debt, which is secured by a senior security interest in the leased equipment and rentals, the related principal and interest have been offset against the minimum lease payments receivable in
accordance with GAAP. All recourse debt is reflected in our consolidated balance sheets.   

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations    
     Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments    
  The following table provides a summary of our contractual obligations and commercial commitments at December 31, 2012. Additional
detail about these items is included in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.       

(1)   
        Items included
in long-term debt with variable coupon rates are described in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.          

(2)      
    See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.      

(3)   
        The purchase
obligations reflected above are primarily commitments to purchase handsets and peripherals, equipment, software, programming and network services, and marketing activities, which will be used or sold in the ordinary course of
business. These amounts do not represent our entire anticipated purchases in the future, but represent only those items that are the subject of contractual obligations. We also purchase products and services as needed with no firm
commitment. For this reason, the amounts presented in this table alone do not provide a reliable indicator of our expected future cash outflows or changes in our expected cash position (see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements).

(4)   
        We are not able
to make a reliable estimate of when the unrecognized tax benefits balance of $2.9 billion and related interest and penalties will be settled with the respective taxing authorities until issues or examinations are further developed (see Note 12 to
the consolidated financial statements).          

(5)   
        Other long-term
liabilities include estimated postretirement benefit and qualified pension plan contributions (see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements).          

Guarantees    
    In connection with the execution of agreements for the sale of businesses and investments, Verizon
ordinarily provides representations and warranties to the purchasers pertaining to a variety of nonfinancial matters, such as ownership of the securities being sold, as well as financial losses (see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements).
     We guarantee the debentures and first mortgage bonds of our operating telephone company subsidiaries. As of December 31,
2012, $4.3 billion principal amount of these obligations remain outstanding. Each guarantee will remain in place for the life of the obligation unless terminated pursuant to its terms, including the operating telephone company no longer being a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Verizon.      We also guarantee the debt obligations of GTE Corporation that were issued and
outstanding prior to July 1, 2003. As of December 31, 2012, $1.7 billion principal amount of these obligations remain outstanding (see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements).   
  As of December 31, 2012 letters of credit totaling approximately $0.1 billion, which were executed in the normal course of business
and support several financing arrangements and payment obligations to third parties, were outstanding (see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements).   

Market Risk    
    We are exposed to various types of market risk in the normal course of business, including the impact of
interest rate changes, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, changes in investment, equity and commodity prices and changes in corporate tax rates. We employ risk management strategies, which may include the use of a variety of derivatives
including cross currency swaps, foreign currency and prepaid forwards and collars, interest rate swap agreements, commodity swap and forward agreements and interest rate locks. We do not hold derivatives for trading purposes.   
  It is our general policy to enter into interest rate, foreign currency and other derivative transactions only to the extent necessary to
achieve our desired objectives in limiting our exposure to various market risks. Our objectives include maintaining a mix of fixed and variable rate debt to lower borrowing costs within reasonable risk parameters and to protect against earnings and
cash flow volatility resulting from changes in market conditions. We do not hedge our market risk exposure in a manner that would completely eliminate the effect of changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates on our earnings. We do not
expect that our net income, liquidity and cash flows will be materially affected by these risk management strategies.       

Interest Rate Risk    
    We are exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily on our short-term debt and the portion of long-term
debt that carries floating interest rates. As of December 31, 2012, substantially all of the aggregate principal amount of our total debt portfolio consisted of fixed rate indebtedness, including the effect of interest rate swap agreements
designated as hedges. The impact of a 100 basis point change in interest rates affecting our floating rate debt would result in a change in annual interest expense, including our interest rate swap agreements that are designated as hedges, that is
not material. The interest rates on our existing long-term debt obligations are unaffected by changes to our credit ratings.   
  The table that follows summarizes the fair values of our long-term debt, including current maturities, and interest rate swap derivatives
as of December 31, 2012 and 2011. The table also provides a sensitivity analysis of the estimated fair values of these financial instruments assuming 100-basis-point upward and downward shifts in the yield curve. Our sensitivity analysis does
not include the fair values of our commercial paper and bank loans, if any, because they are not significantly affected by changes in market interest rates.       
     Interest Rate Swaps       We have entered into domestic interest rate swaps to achieve a targeted mix of fixed and variable rate debt. We principally receive fixed rates and pay variable rates based on the London Interbank Offered
Rate, resulting in a net increase or decrease to Interest expense. These swaps are designated as fair value hedges and hedge against changes in the fair value of our debt portfolio. We record the interest rate swaps at fair value on our consolidated
balance sheets as assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2012 the fair value of these interest rate swaps was not material, and at December 31, 2011, the fair value was $0.6 billion, primarily included in Other assets and Long-term debt.
As of December 31, 2012, the total notional amount of these interest rate swaps was $1.3 billion. During 2012, interest rate swaps with a notional value of $5.8 billion were settled. As a result of the settlements, we received net proceeds of
$0.7 billion, including accrued interest which is included in Other, net operating activities in the consolidated statement of cash flows. The fair value basis adjustment to the underlying debt instruments will be recognized into earnings as a
reduction of Interest expense over the remaining lives of the underlying debt obligations.   

Foreign Currency Translation    
    The functional currency for our foreign operations is primarily the local currency. The translation of
income statement and balance sheet amounts of our foreign operations into U.S. dollars is recorded as cumulative translation adjustments, which are included in Accumulated other comprehensive income in our consolidated balance sheets. Gains and
losses on foreign currency transactions are recorded in the consolidated statements of income in Other income and (expense), net. At December 31, 2012, our primary translation exposure was to the British Pound Sterling, the Euro, the
Indian Rupee, the Australian Dollar and the Japanese Yen.       Cross Currency Swaps    
  Verizon Wireless previously entered into cross currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges to exchange approximately $1.6 billion of
British Pound Sterling and Euro-denominated debt into U.S. dollars and to fix our future interest and principal payments in U.S. dollars, as well as to mitigate the impact of foreign currency transaction gains or losses. A portion of the gains
and losses recognized in Other comprehensive income was reclassified to Other income and (expense), net to offset the related pretax foreign currency transaction gain or loss on the underlying debt obligations. The fair value of the outstanding
swaps was not material at December 31, 2012 or December 31, 2011. During 2012 and 2011 the gains and losses with respect to these swaps were not material.       

Critical Accounting Estimates and
Recent Accounting Standards     

Critical Accounting Estimates    
    A summary of the critical accounting estimates used in preparing our financial statements is as follows:   

Wireless licenses and Goodwill are a significant component of our consolidated assets. Both our wireless licenses and goodwill are treated as
indefinite-lived intangible assets and, therefore are not amortized, but rather are tested for impairment annually in the fourth fiscal quarter, unless there are events or changes in circumstances during an interim period that indicates these assets
may not be recoverable. We believe our estimates and assumptions are reasonable and represent appropriate marketplace considerations as of the valuation date. We do not believe that reasonably likely adverse changes in our assumptions and estimates
would result in an impairment charge as of our latest impairment testing date. However, if there is a substantial and sustained adverse decline in our operating profitability, we may have impairment charges in future years. Any such impairment
charge could be material to our results of operations and financial condition.          Wireless Licenses
      The carrying value of our wireless licenses was approximately $77.7 billion as of December 31, 2012.
We aggregate our wireless licenses into one single unit of accounting, as we utilize our wireless licenses on an integrated basis as part of our nationwide wireless network. Our wireless licenses provide us with the exclusive right to utilize
certain radio frequency spectrum to provide wireless communication services. There are currently no legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factors that limit the useful life of our wireless licenses. Our impairment test
consists of comparing the estimated fair value of our wireless licenses to the aggregated carrying amount as of the test date. If the estimated fair value of our wireless licenses is less than the aggregated carrying amount of the wireless licenses
then an impairment charge is recognized. Our annual impairment tests for 2012, 2011 and 2010 indicated that the fair value significantly exceeded the carrying value and, therefore, did not result in an impairment.   
  We estimate the fair value of our wireless licenses using a direct income based valuation approach. This approach uses a
discounted cash flow analysis to estimate what a marketplace participant would be willing to pay to purchase the aggregated wireless licenses as of the valuation date. As a result we are required to make significant estimates about future cash flows
specifically associated with our wireless licenses, an appropriate discount rate based on the risk associated with those estimated cash flows and assumed terminal value and growth rates. We consider current and expected future economic conditions,
current and expected availability of wireless network technology and infrastructure and related equipment and the costs thereof as well as other relevant factors in estimating future cash flows. The discount rate represents our estimate of the
weighted-average cost of capital (or expected return,  WACC ) that a marketplace participant would require as of the valuation date. We develop the discount rate based on our consideration of the cost of debt and equity of a group of
guideline companies as of the valuation date. Accordingly, our discount rate incorporates our estimate of the expected return a marketplace participant would require as of the valuation date, including the risk premium associated with the current
and expected economic conditions as of the valuation date. The terminal value growth rate represents our estimate of the marketplace s long-term growth rate.       Goodwill       At December 31, 2012, the balance of our
goodwill was approximately $24.1 billion, of which $18.2 billion was in our Verizon Wireless segment and $5.9 billion was in our Wireline segment. Determining whether an impairment has occurred requires the determination of fair value of each
respective reporting unit. Our operating segments, Verizon Wireless and Wireline, are deemed to be our reporting units for   

purposes of goodwill impairment testing. The fair value of Verizon Wireless significantly exceeded its carrying value and the fair value of Wireline exceeded its carrying value. Accordingly, our
annual impairment tests for 2012, 2011 and 2010 did not result in an impairment.      The fair value of the
reporting unit is calculated using a market approach and a discounted cash flow method. The market approach includes the use of comparative multiples to corroborate discounted cash flow results. The discounted cash flow method is based on the
present value of two components projected cash flows and a terminal value. The terminal value represents the expected normalized future cash flows of the reporting unit beyond the cash flows from the discrete projection period. The fair value
of the reporting unit is calculated based on the sum of the present value of the cash flows from the discrete period and the present value of the terminal value. The estimated cash flows are discounted using a rate that represents our WACC.

We maintain benefit plans for most of our employees, including, for certain employees, pension and other postretirement benefit plans. At
December 31, 2012, in the aggregate, pension plan benefit obligations exceeded the fair value of pension plan assets, which will result in higher future pension plan expense. Other postretirement benefit plans have larger benefit obligations
than plan assets, resulting in expense. Significant benefit plan assumptions, including the discount rate used, the long-term rate of return on plan assets and health care trend rates are periodically updated and impact the amount of benefit plan
income, expense, assets and obligations. A sensitivity analysis of the impact of changes in these assumptions on the benefit obligations and expense (income) recorded, as well as on the funded status due to an increase or a decrease in the actual
versus expected return on plan assets as of December 31, 2012 and for the year then ended pertaining to Verizon s pension and postretirement benefit plans is provided in the table below.      

*  
    In determining its pension and other postretirement obligation, the Company used a weighted-average discount rate of 4.20%. The rate was selected to
approximate the composite interest rates available on a selection of high-quality bonds available in the market at December 31, 2012. The bonds selected had maturities that coincided with the time periods during which benefits payments are
expected to occur, were non-callable and available in sufficient quantities to ensure marketability (at least $0.3 billion par outstanding).          

Our current and deferred income taxes, and associated valuation allowances, are impacted by events and transactions arising in the normal course of
business as well as in connection with the adoption of new accounting standards, changes in tax laws and rates, acquisitions and dispositions of businesses and non-recurring items. As a global commercial enterprise, our income tax rate and the
classification of income taxes can be affected by many factors, including estimates of the timing and realization of deferred income tax assets and the timing and amount of income tax payments. We account for tax benefits taken or expected to be
taken in our tax returns in accordance with the accounting standard relating to the uncertainty in income taxes, which requires the use of a two-step approach for recognizing and measuring tax benefits taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.
We review and adjust our liability for unrecognized tax benefits based on our best judgment given the facts, circumstances, and information available at each reporting date. To the extent that the final outcome of these tax positions is different
than the amounts recorded, such differences may impact income tax expense and actual tax payments. We recognize any interest and penalties accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. Actual tax payments may materially differ
from estimated liabilities as a result of changes in tax laws as well as unanticipated transactions impacting related income tax balances.          

Our Plant, property and equipment balance represents a significant component of our consolidated assets. We record plant, property and
equipment at cost. We depreciate plant, property and equipment on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets. We expect that a one-year increase in estimated useful lives of our plant, property and equipment would result
in a decrease to our 2012 depreciation expense of $1.5 billion and that a one-year decrease would result in an increase of approximately $1.8 billion in our 2012 depreciation expense.      

Recent Accounting Standards    
    In July 2012, the accounting standard update regarding testing of intangible assets for impairment was
issued. This standard update allows companies the option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. An entity is not required to calculate the fair
value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset and perform the quantitative impairment test unless the entity determines that it is more likely than not the asset is impaired. We will adopt this standard update during the first quarter of 2013. The
adoption of this standard update is not expected to have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.      In
February 2013, the accounting standard update regarding reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income was issued. This standard update requires companies to report the effect of significant reclassifications out of accumulated
other comprehensive income on the respective line items in our consolidated statements of income if the amount being reclassified is required under U.S. GAAP to be reclassified in its entirety to net income. For other amounts that are not required
under U.S. GAAP to be reclassified in their entirety to net income in the same reporting period, an entity is required to cross-reference other disclosures required under U.S. GAAP that provide additional detail about those amounts. We will adopt
this standard in the first quarter of 2013. The adoption of this standard update is not expected to have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.   
    
      Acquisitions
 and Divestitures     
    Spectrum Licenses       During the third quarter of 2012, after receiving the required regulatory approvals, Verizon Wireless completed the following previously announced transactions in which we acquired wireless spectrum that
will be used to deploy additional fourth-generation (4G) Long Term Evolution (LTE) capacity:       

Verizon Wireless acquired AWS spectrum in separate transactions with SpectrumCo and Cox TMI Wireless, LLC for which it paid an aggregate of $3.9
billion at the time of the closings. Verizon Wireless has also recorded a liability of $0.4 billion related to a three-year service obligation to SpectrumCo s members pursuant to commercial agreements executed concurrently with the
SpectrumCo transaction.          

Verizon Wireless completed license purchase and exchange transactions with Leap Wireless, Savary Island Wireless, which is majority owned by Leap
Wireless, and a subsidiary of T-Mobile. As a result of these transactions, Verizon Wireless received an aggregate $2.6 billion of AWS and PCS licenses at fair value and net cash proceeds of $0.2 billion, transferred certain AWS licenses to T-Mobile
and a 700 megahertz (MHz) lower A block license to Leap Wireless, and recorded an immaterial gain.          HUGHES Telematics,
Inc.       On June 1, 2012, we agreed to acquire HUGHES Telematics for approximately $12 per share in cash for a total
acquisition price of $0.6 billion and we completed the acquisition on July 26, 2012. As a result of the transaction, HUGHES Telematics became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Verizon. The consolidated financial statements include the results of
HUGHES Telematics  operations from the date the acquisition closed. Upon closing, we recorded approximately $0.6 billion of goodwill, $0.1 billion of other intangibles, and assumed the debt obligations of HUGHES Telematics, which were
approximately $0.1 billion as of the date of acquisition, and which were repaid by Verizon. Had this acquisition been completed on January 1, 2012 or 2011, the results of the acquired operations of HUGHES Telematics would not have had a
significant impact on the consolidated net income attributable to Verizon. The acquisition has accelerated our ability to bring more telematics offerings to market for existing and new HUGHES Telematics and Verizon customers.   
  The acquisition of HUGHES Telematics was accounted for as a business combination under the acquisition method. The cost of the
acquisition was allocated to the assets and liabilities acquired based on their fair values as of the close of the acquisition, with the excess amount being recorded as goodwill.       Terremark Worldwide, Inc.       During April 2011, we acquired Terremark for $19
per share in cash. Closing and other direct acquisition-related costs totaled approximately $13 million after-tax. The acquisition was completed via a  short-form  merger under Delaware law through which Terremark became a wholly owned
subsidiary of Verizon. The acquisition enhanced Verizon s offerings to business and government customers globally.       Telephone Access
Line Spin-off       On July 1, 2010, after receiving regulatory approval, we completed the spin-off of the shares of a
newly formed subsidiary of Verizon (Spinco) to Verizon stockholders and the merger of Spinco with Frontier. Spinco held defined assets and liabilities that were used in Verizon s local exchange businesses and related activities in 14 states.
The total value of the transaction to Verizon and its stockholders was approximately $8.6 billion.   

Alltel Divestiture Markets       As a condition of the regulatory approvals to complete the acquisition of Alltel Corporation in January 2009, Verizon Wireless was required to divest overlapping properties in 105 operating markets in 24
states (Alltel Divestiture Markets). During the second quarter of 2010, AT T Mobility acquired 79 of the 105 Alltel Divestiture Markets, including licenses and network assets, for approximately $2.4 billion in cash, and Atlantic Tele-Network,
Inc. acquired the remaining 26 Alltel Divestiture Markets, including licenses and network assets, for $0.2 billion in cash.   
  See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information relating to the above acquisitions and divestitures.
       
      Other
Factors That May Affect Future Results     

Regulatory and Competitive Trends    
     Competition and Regulation       Technological, regulatory and market changes have provided Verizon both new opportunities and challenges. These changes have allowed Verizon to offer new types of services in an increasingly competitive
market. At the same time, they have allowed other service providers to broaden the scope of their own competitive offerings. Current and potential competitors for network services include other telephone companies, cable companies, wireless service
providers, foreign telecommunications providers, satellite providers, electric utilities, Internet service providers, providers of VoIP services, and other companies that offer network services using a variety of technologies. Many of these
companies have a strong market presence, brand recognition and existing customer relationships, all of which contribute to intensifying competition and may affect our future revenue growth. Many of our competitors also remain subject to fewer
regulatory constraints than us.      We are unable to predict definitively the impact that the ongoing changes in the
telecommunications industry will ultimately have on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The financial impact will depend on several factors, including the timing, extent and success of competition in our markets, the timing
and outcome of various regulatory proceedings and any appeals, and the timing, extent and success of our pursuit of new opportunities.       FCC
Regulation       The FCC has jurisdiction over our interstate telecommunications services and other matters under the
Communications Act of 1934, as amended (Communications Act). The Communications Act generally provides that we may not charge unjust or unreasonable rates, or engage in unreasonable discrimination when we are providing services as a common carrier,
and regulates some of the rates, terms and conditions under which we provide certain services. The FCC also has adopted regulations governing various aspects of our business including: (i) use and disclosure of customer proprietary network
information; (ii) telemarketing; (iii) assignment of telephone numbers to customers; (iv) provision to law enforcement agencies of the capability to obtain call-identifying information and call content information from calls pursuant
to lawful process; (v) accessibility of services and equipment to individuals with disabilities; (vi) interconnection with the networks of other carriers; and (vii) customers  ability to keep (or  port ) their telephone
numbers when switching to another carrier. In addition, we pay various fees to support other FCC programs, such as the universal service program discussed below. Changes to these mandates, or the adoption of additional mandates, could require us to
make changes to our operations or otherwise increase our costs of compliance.       Broadband    
  The FCC previously adopted a series of orders that impose lesser regulatory requirements on broadband services and facilities than apply
to narrowband or traditional telephone services. With respect to wireline facilities, the FCC determined that certain unbundling requirements that apply to narrowband facilities of local exchange carriers do not apply to broadband facilities such as
fiber to the premise loops and packet switches. With respect to services, the FCC concluded that both wireline and wireless broadband Internet access services qualify as largely deregulated information services. Separately, certain of our wireline
broadband services sold primarily to larger business customers were largely deregulated when our forbearance petition was granted. The latter relief has been upheld on appeal, but is subject to a continuing challenge before the FCC.   
  In December of 2010, the FCC adopted so-called  net neutrality  rules governing broadband Internet access services that it
describes as intended to preserve the openness of the Internet. These rules, which took effect in November 2011 and are subject to a pending appeal, require providers of broadband Internet access to publicly disclose information relating to the
performance and terms of its services. For  fixed  services, the rules prohibit blocking lawful content, applications, services or non-harmful devices. The rules also prohibit unreasonable discrimination in transmitting lawful traffic over
a consumer s fixed broadband Internet access service. For  mobile  services, the rules prohibit blocking access to lawful websites or blocking applications that compete with the provider s voice or video telephony services. The
restrictions are subject to  reasonable network management.  The rules also establish a complaint process, and state that the FCC will continue to monitor developments to determine whether to impose further regulations.   

Video       The FCC has a body of rules that apply to cable operators under Title VI of the Communications Act of 1934, and these rules also generally apply to telephone companies that provide cable services over
their networks. In addition, the Act generally requires companies that provide cable service over a cable system to obtain a local cable franchise, and the FCC has adopted rules that interpret and implement this requirement.   
   Interstate Access Charges and Intercarrier Compensation       In 2011, the FCC issued a broad order changing the framework for the interstate and intrastate switched access per-minute rates that carriers charge each other for the exchange of voice traffic. The new
rules will gradually reduce to zero the rates that Verizon pays to other carriers and the rates that Verizon charges other carriers. This order also established a per-minute intercarrier compensation rate applicable to the exchange of Voice over IP
traffic regardless of whether such traffic is intrastate or interstate. This order is subject to certain pending reconsideration petitions and appeals.      The FCC s current rules for special access services provide for pricing flexibility and ultimately the removal of services from price regulation when prescribed competitive thresholds are met. More
than half of special access revenues are now removed from price regulation. The FCC currently has a rulemaking proceeding underway to determine whether and how these rules should be modified.       Universal Service       The FCC has adopted a body of rules implementing the
universal service provisions of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, including provisions to support rural and non-rural high-cost areas, low income subscribers, schools and libraries and rural health care. The FCC s rules require
telecommunications companies including Verizon to pay into the Universal Service Fund (USF), which then makes distributions in support of the programs. Under the broad order issued by the FCC in 2011, the focus of the USF will be gradually shifted
from support of voice services to support of broadband services. The FCC is also currently considering other changes to the rules governing contributions to the fund. Any change in the current rules could result in a change in the contribution that
Verizon and others must make and that would have to be collected from customers, or in the amounts that these providers receive from the USF.   
   Unbundling of Network Elements       Under Section 251 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, incumbent local exchange carriers are required to provide competing carriers with access to components of their network on an unbundled basis,
known as UNEs, where certain statutory standards are satisfied. The FCC has adopted rules defining the network elements that must be made available, including criteria for determining whether high-capacity loops, transport or dark fiber transport
must be unbundled in individual wire centers. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 also adopted a cost-based pricing standard for these UNEs, which the FCC interpreted as allowing it to impose a pricing standard known as  total element long run
incremental cost  or  TELRIC.        Wireless Services    
  The FCC regulates the licensing, construction, operation, acquisition and transfer of wireless communications systems, including the
systems that Verizon Wireless operates, pursuant to the Communications Act, other legislation, and the FCC s rules. The FCC and Congress continuously consider changes to these laws and rules. Adoption of new laws or rules may raise the cost of
providing service or require modification of Verizon Wireless  business plans or operations.      To use the radio frequency
spectrum, wireless communications systems must be licensed by the FCC to operate the wireless network and mobile devices in assigned spectrum segments. Verizon Wireless holds FCC licenses to operate in several different radio services, including the
cellular radiotelephone service, personal communications service, wireless communications service, and point-to-point radio service. The technical and service rules, the specific radio frequencies and amounts of spectrum Verizon Wireless holds, and
the sizes of the geographic areas it is authorized to operate in, vary for each of these services. However, all of the licenses Verizon Wireless holds allow it to use spectrum to provide a wide range of mobile and fixed communications services,
including both voice and data services, and Verizon Wireless operates a seamless network that utilizes those licenses to provide services to customers. Because the FCC issues licenses for only a fixed time, generally 10 years, Verizon Wireless must
periodically seek renewal of those licenses. Although the FCC has routinely renewed all of Verizon Wireless  licenses that have come up for renewal to date, challenges could be brought against the licenses in the future. If a wireless license
were revoked or not renewed upon expiration, Verizon Wireless would not be permitted to provide services on the licensed spectrum in the area covered by that license.      The FCC has also imposed specific mandates on carriers that operate wireless communications systems, which increase Verizon Wireless  costs. These mandates include requirements that Verizon Wireless:
(i) meet specific construction and geographic coverage requirements during the license term; (ii) meet technical operating standards that, among other things, limit the radio frequency radiation from mobile devices and antennas;
(iii) deploy  Enhanced 911  wireless services that provide the wireless caller s number, location and other information to a state or local public safety agency that handles 911 calls; (iv) provide roaming services to other
wireless service providers; and (v) comply with regulations for the construction of transmitters and towers that, among other things, restrict siting of towers in environmentally sensitive locations and in places where the towers would affect a
site listed or eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places. Changes to these mandates could require Verizon Wireless to make changes to operations or increase its costs of compliance. In its November 4, 2008 order approving
Verizon Wireless  acquisition of Alltel, the FCC adopted conditions that impose additional requirements on Verizon Wireless in its provision of Enhanced 911 services and roaming services. Subsequently, in its August 23, 2012 order
approving Verizon Wireless  acquisition of various spectrum licenses from several cable companies and wireless carriers, the FCC adopted conditions obligating Verizon Wireless to meet specified buildout milestones for the acquired spectrum and
to offer data roaming arrangements.   

The Communications Act imposes restrictions on foreign ownership of U.S. wireless systems.
The FCC has approved the interest that Vodafone Group Plc holds, through various of its subsidiaries, in Verizon Wireless. The FCC may need to approve any increase in Vodafone s interest or the acquisition of an ownership interest by other
foreign entities. In addition, as part of the FCC s approval of Vodafone s ownership interest, Verizon Wireless, Verizon and Vodafone entered into an agreement with the U.S. Department of Defense, Department of Justice and Federal Bureau
of Investigation which imposes national security and law enforcement-related obligations on the ways in which Verizon Wireless stores information and otherwise conducts its business.   
  Verizon Wireless anticipates that it will need additional spectrum to meet future demand. It can meet spectrum needs by purchasing
licenses or leasing spectrum from other licensees, or by acquiring new spectrum licenses from the FCC. Under the Communications Act, before Verizon Wireless can acquire a license from another licensee in order to expand its coverage or its spectrum
capacity in a particular area, it must file an application with the FCC, and the FCC can grant the application only after a period for public notice and comment. This review process can delay acquisition of spectrum needed to expand services, and
can result in conditions on the purchaser that can impact its costs and business plans. The Communications Act also requires the FCC to award new licenses for most commercial wireless services through a competitive bidding process in which spectrum
is awarded to bidders in an auction. Verizon Wireless has participated in spectrum auctions to acquire licenses for radio spectrum in various bands. Most recently, Verizon Wireless participated in the FCC s auction of spectrum in the 700 MHz
band, and was the high bidder on 109 licenses in the 700 MHz band. The FCC granted all of those licenses to Verizon Wireless on November 26, 2008.      The FCC also adopted service rules that will impose costs on licensees that acquire the 700 MHz band spectrum either through auction or by purchasing such spectrum from other companies. These rules
include minimum coverage mandates by specific dates during the license terms, and, for approximately one-third of the spectrum, known as the  C Block,   open access  requirements, which generally require licensees of that
spectrum to allow customers to use devices and applications of their choice on the LTE network we are deploying on that spectrum, including those obtained from sources other than us or our distributors or dealers, subject to certain technical
limitations established by us. Verizon Wireless holds the C Block 700 MHz licenses covering the entire United States. In adopting its  net neutrality  rules discussed above, the FCC stated that the new rules operate independently from the
 open access  requirements that continue to apply to the C Block licensees.      The FCC is also conducting several
proceedings to explore making additional spectrum available for licensed and/or unlicensed use or restricting spectrum holdings. Most recently, on September 28, 2012, pursuant to legislation that Congress enacted in February 2012, the FCC began
a proceeding to consider making available certain spectrum currently used for television broadcast operations. On that day it also began a proceeding to consider whether to limit the aggregate amount of spectrum any one licensee could acquire or
otherwise regulate licensees  spectrum holdings.       State Regulation and Local Approvals    
   Telephone Operations    
  State public utility commissions regulate our telephone operations with respect to certain telecommunications intrastate matters. Our
competitive local exchange carrier and long distance operations are lightly regulated the same as other similarly situated carriers. Our incumbent local exchange operations (California, Connecticut, Delaware, the District of Columbia, Florida,
Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Texas and Virginia) are subject to various levels of pricing flexibility, deregulation, detariffing, and service quality standards. None of the states are
subject to earnings regulation.       Video       Companies that provide cable service over a cable system are typically subject to state and/or local cable television rules and regulations. As noted above, cable operators generally must obtain a local
cable franchise from each local unit of government prior to providing cable service in that local area. Some states have enacted legislation that enables cable operators to apply for, and obtain, a single cable franchise at the state, rather than
local, level. To date, Verizon has applied for and received state-issued franchises in California, Florida, New Jersey, Texas and the unincorporated areas of Delaware. We also have obtained authorization from the state commission in Rhode Island to
provide cable service in certain areas in that state, have obtained required state commission approvals for our local franchises in New York, and will need to obtain additional state commission approvals in these states to provide cable service in
additional areas. Virginia law provides us the option of entering a given franchise area using state standards if local franchise negotiations are unsuccessful.       Wireless Services       The rapid growth of the wireless industry has led to
efforts by some state legislatures and state public utility commissions to regulate the industry in ways that may impose additional costs on Verizon Wireless. The Communications Act generally preempts regulation by state and local governments of the
entry of, or the rates charged by, wireless carriers, but does not prohibit states from regulating the other  terms and conditions  of wireless service. While numerous state commissions do not currently have jurisdiction over wireless
services, state legislatures may decide to grant them such jurisdiction, and those commissions that already have authority to impose regulations on wireless carriers may adopt new rules.   
  State efforts to regulate wireless services have included proposals to regulate customer billing, termination of service, trial periods
for service, advertising, the use of handsets while driving, reporting requirements for system outages and the availability of broadband wireless services. Wireless tower and antenna facilities are also subject to state and local zoning and land use
regulation, and securing approvals for new or modified tower or antenna sites is often a lengthy and expensive process.   

Verizon Wireless (as well as AT T and Sprint-Nextel) is a party to an Assurance of
Voluntary Compliance (AVC) with 33 State Attorneys General. The AVC, which generally reflected Verizon Wireless  practices at the time it was entered into in July 2004, obligates the company to disclose certain rates and terms during a sales
transaction, to provide maps depicting coverage, and to comply with various requirements regarding advertising, billing, and other practices.       

Environmental Matters    
    During 2003, under a government-approved plan, remediation commenced at the site of a former Sylvania
facility in Hicksville, New York that processed nuclear fuel rods in the 1950s and 1960s. Remediation beyond original expectations proved to be necessary and a reassessment of the anticipated remediation costs was conducted. A reassessment of costs
related to remediation efforts at several other former facilities was also undertaken. In September 2005, the Army Corps of Engineers (ACE) accepted the Hicksville site into the Formerly Utilized Sites Remedial Action Program. This may result in the
ACE performing some or all of the remediation effort for the Hicksville site with a corresponding decrease in costs to Verizon. To the extent that the ACE assumes responsibility for remedial work at the Hicksville site, an adjustment to a reserve
previously established for the remediation may be made. Adjustments to the reserve may also be made based upon actual conditions discovered during the remediation at this or any other site requiring remediation.   

Cautionary Statement Concerning
Forward-Looking Statements     
    In this report we have made forward-looking statements. These statements are based on our estimates and
assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include the information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations. Forward-looking statements also include those preceded or followed by the
words  anticipates,   believes,   estimates,   hopes  or similar expressions. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995.      The following important factors, along with those discussed elsewhere in this report could
affect future results and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements:       

adverse conditions in the U.S. and international economies;      

competition in our markets;          

material changes in available technology or technology substitution;      

disruption of our key suppliers  provisioning of products or services;      

changes in the regulatory environments in which we operate, including any increase in restrictions on our ability to operate our networks;

breaches of network or information technology security, natural disasters, terrorist attacks or significant litigation and any resulting financial
impact not covered by insurance;          

an adverse change in the ratings afforded our debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations or adverse conditions in the credit
markets impacting the cost, including interest rates, and/or availability of financing;          

changes in our accounting assumptions that regulatory agencies, including the SEC, may require or that result from changes in the accounting rules
or their application, which could result in an impact on earnings;          

material adverse changes in labor matters, including labor negotiations, and any resulting financial and/or operational impact;

significant increases in benefit plan costs or lower investments returns on plan assets; and      

the inability to implement our business strategies.      

Report of Management on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting     
    We, the management of Verizon Communications Inc., are responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting of the company. Management has evaluated internal control over financial reporting of the company using the criteria for effective internal control established in Internal Control Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.      Management has assessed the
effectiveness of the company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012. Based on this assessment, we believe that the internal control over financial reporting of the company is effective as of December 31,
2012. In connection with this assessment, there were no material weaknesses in the company s internal control over financial reporting identified by management.      The company s financial statements included in this Annual Report have been audited by Ernst   Young LLP, independent registered public accounting firm. Ernst   Young LLP has also
provided an attestation report on the company s internal control over financial reporting.       

/s/    Lowell C. McAdam    
 
             Lowell C. McAdam     
 
            Chairman and Chief Executive Officer    

/s/    Francis J. Shammo    
 
             Francis J. Shammo     
 
            Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    

/s/    Robert J. Barish    
 
             Robert J. Barish     
 
            Senior Vice President and Controller    

Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting     
     To The Board of Directors and Shareowners of Verizon Communications Inc.:    
  We have audited Verizon Communications Inc. and subsidiaries  (Verizon) internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Verizon s management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.   
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s
internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions
and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that
receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   
  In our opinion, Verizon maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2012, based on the COSO criteria.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Verizon as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in equity for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 2012 of Verizon and our report dated February 26, 2013 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.       

Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm on Financial Statements     
     To The Board of Directors and Shareowners of Verizon Communications Inc.:    
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Verizon Communications Inc. and subsidiaries (Verizon) as of
December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2012. These financial statements are the
responsibility of Verizon s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   
  In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position
of Verizon at December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2012, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States), Verizon s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission and our report dated February 26, 2013 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.       

Consolidated Statements of Income
Verizon Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries          
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Consolidated Statements of
Comprehensive Income Verizon Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries          
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Consolidated Balance Sheets Verizon
Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries          
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
Verizon Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries     
     
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Consolidated Statements of Changes in
Equity Verizon Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries          
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements Verizon Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries     
      
      Note 1

Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies    
     Description of Business       Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon or the Company) is a holding company, which acting through its subsidiaries is one of the world s leading providers of communications, information and
entertainment products and services to consumers, businesses and governmental agencies with a presence in over 150 countries around the world. We have two reportable segments, Verizon Wireless and Wireline. For further information concerning our
business segments, see Note 13.      Verizon Wireless provides wireless communications services across one of the most extensive
wireless networks in the United States (U.S.) and has the largest third-generation (3G) and fourth-generation (4G) Long-Term Evolution technology (LTE) networks of any U.S. wireless service provider.   
  The Wireline segment provides communications products and services including local exchange and long distance voice service, broadband
video and data, IP network services, network access and other services to consumers, small businesses and carriers in the United States, as well as to businesses and government customers both in the United States and in over 150 other countries
around the world.       Consolidation       The method of accounting applied to investments, whether consolidated, equity or cost, involves an evaluation of all significant terms of the investments that explicitly grant or suggest evidence of
control or influence over the operations of the investee. The consolidated financial statements include our controlled subsidiaries. For controlled subsidiaries that are not wholly owned, the noncontrolling interest is included in Net income and
Total equity. Investments in businesses which we do not control, but have the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies, are accounted for using the equity method. Investments in which we do not have the ability
to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies are accounted for under the cost method. Equity and cost method investments are included in Investments in unconsolidated businesses in our consolidated balance sheets. Certain
of our cost method investments are classified as available-for-sale securities and adjusted to fair value pursuant to the accounting standard related to debt and equity securities. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been
eliminated.       Basis of Presentation       We have reclassified certain prior year amounts to conform to the current year presentation.      Corporate, eliminations and other during the periods presented include a non-cash adjustment of $0.2 billion in 2010, primarily to adjust wireless service revenues. This adjustment was recorded to
properly defer previously recognized wireless service revenues that were earned and recognized in future periods. The adjustment was recorded during 2010, which reduced Net income attributable to Verizon by approximately $0.1 billion.   
   Use of Estimates       We
prepare our financial statements using U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), which require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and disclosures. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
     Examples of significant estimates include: the allowance for doubtful accounts, the recoverability of plant, property and
equipment, the recoverability of intangible assets and other long-lived assets, unbilled revenues, fair values of financial instruments, unrecognized tax benefits, valuation allowances on tax assets, accrued expenses, pension and postretirement
benefit assumptions, contingencies and allocation of purchase prices in connection with business combinations.       Revenue Recognition
       Multiple Deliverable Arrangements       In both our Verizon Wireless and Wireline segments, we offer products and services to our customers through bundled arrangements. These arrangements involve multiple deliverables which may include
products, services, or a combination of products and services.      On January 1, 2011, we prospectively adopted the
accounting standard updates regarding revenue recognition for multiple deliverable arrangements, and arrangements that include software elements. These updates require us to allocate revenue in an arrangement using its best estimate of selling price
if neither vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) nor third party evidence (TPE) of selling price exists.  

Verizon Wireless       Our Verizon Wireless segment earns revenue primarily by providing access to and usage of its network. In general, access revenue is billed one month in advance and recognized when earned. Usage revenue is
generally billed in arrears and recognized when service is rendered. Equipment sales revenue associated with the sale of wireless handsets and accessories is recognized when the products are delivered to and accepted by the customer, as this is
considered to be a separate earnings process from providing wireless services. For agreements involving the resale of third-party services in which we are considered the primary obligor in the arrangements, we record the revenue gross at the time of
the sale. For equipment sales, we currently subsidize the cost of wireless devices. The amount of this subsidy is generally contingent on the arrangement and terms selected by the customer. The equipment revenue is recognized up to the amount
collected when the wireless device is sold.       Wireline       Our Wireline segment earns revenue based upon usage of its network and facilities and contract fees. In general, fixed monthly fees for voice, video, data and certain other services are billed one month
in advance and recognized when earned. Revenue from services that are not fixed in amount and are based on usage is generally billed in arrears and recognized when service is rendered.   
  We sell each of the services offered in bundled arrangements (i.e., voice, video and data), as well as separately; therefore each product
or service has a standalone selling price. For these arrangements revenue is allocated to each deliverable using a relative selling price method. Under this method, arrangement consideration is allocated to each separate deliverable based on our
standalone selling price for each product or service. These services include FiOS services, individually or in bundles, and High Speed Internet.      When we bundle equipment with maintenance and monitoring services, we recognize equipment revenue when the equipment is installed in accordance with contractual specifications and ready for the
customer s use. The maintenance and monitoring services are recognized monthly over the term of the contract as we provide the services.      Installation related fees, along with the associated costs up to but not exceeding these fees, are deferred and amortized over the estimated customer relationship period.   
  For each of our segments we report taxes imposed by governmental authorities on revenue-producing transactions between us and our
customers on a net basis.       Maintenance and Repairs       We charge the cost of maintenance and repairs, including the cost of replacing minor items not constituting substantial betterments, principally to Cost of services and sales as these costs are incurred.
      Advertising Costs       Costs for advertising products and services as well as other promotional and sponsorship costs are charged to Selling, general and administrative expense in the periods in which they are incurred (see
Note 15).       Earnings Per Common Share       Basic earnings per common share are based on the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the period. Where appropriate, diluted earnings per common share include the dilutive effect of shares
issuable under our stock-based compensation plans.      There were a total of approximately 9 million, 6 million and
3 million stock options and restricted stock units outstanding included in the computation of diluted earnings per common share for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Outstanding options to purchase shares that
were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per common share, because to do so would have been anti-dilutive for the period, were not significant for the year ended December 31, 2012 and included approximately 19 million and
73 million weighted-average shares for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.      We are authorized
to issue up to 4.25 billion and 250 million shares of common stock and Series Preferred Stock, respectively.       Cash and Cash
Equivalents       We consider all highly liquid investments with a maturity of 90 days or less when purchased to be cash
equivalents. Cash equivalents are stated at cost, which approximates quoted market value and include amounts held in money market funds.   
   Marketable Securities    
  We have investments in marketable securities, which are considered  available-for-sale  under the provisions of the accounting
standard for certain debt and equity securities, and are included in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets in Short-term investments, Investments in unconsolidated businesses or Other assets. We continually evaluate our investments in
marketable securities for impairment due to declines in   

market value considered to be other-than-temporary. That evaluation includes, in addition to persistent, declining stock prices, general economic and company-specific evaluations. In the event of
a determination that a decline in market value is other-than-temporary, a charge to earnings is recorded for the loss, and a new cost basis in the investment is established.       Inventories       Inventory consists of wireless and wireline equipment held for
sale, which is carried at the lower of cost (determined principally on either an average cost or first-in, first-out basis) or market.   
   Plant and Depreciation    
  We record plant, property and equipment at cost. Plant, property and equipment of wireline and wireless operations are generally
depreciated on a straight-line basis.      Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the estimated life of the
improvement or the remaining term of the related lease, calculated from the time the asset was placed in service.      When the
depreciable assets of our wireline and wireless operations are retired or otherwise disposed of, the related cost and accumulated depreciation are deducted from the plant accounts, and any gains or losses on disposition are recognized in income.
     We capitalize and depreciate network software purchased or developed along with related plant assets. We also capitalize
interest associated with the acquisition or construction of network-related assets. Capitalized interest is reported as a reduction in interest expense and depreciated as part of the cost of the network-related assets.   
  In connection with our ongoing review of the estimated remaining average useful lives of plant, property and equipment at our local
telephone operations, we determined that there were no changes necessary for average useful lives for 2012, 2011, and 2010. In connection with our ongoing review of the estimated remaining average useful lives of plant, property and equipment at our
wireless operations, we determined that changes were necessary to the remaining estimated useful lives as a result of technology upgrades, enhancements, and planned retirements. These changes resulted in increases in depreciation expense of $0.4
billion and $0.3 billion in 2011 and 2010, respectively. While the timing and extent of current deployment plans are subject to ongoing analysis and modification, we believe the current estimates of useful lives are reasonable.   
   Computer Software Costs    
  We capitalize the cost of internal-use network and non-network software that has a useful life in excess of one year. Subsequent
additions, modifications or upgrades to internal-use network and non-network software are capitalized only to the extent that they allow the software to perform a task it previously did not perform. Planning, software maintenance and training costs
are expensed in the period in which they are incurred. Also, we capitalize interest associated with the development of internal-use network and non-network software. Capitalized non-network internal-use software costs are amortized using the
straight-line method over a period of 3 to 7 years and are included in Other intangible assets, net in our consolidated balance sheets. For a discussion of our impairment policy for capitalized software costs, see  Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets  below. Also, see Note 3 for additional detail of internal-use non-network software reflected in our consolidated balance sheets.   
   Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets    
   Goodwill       Goodwill is the
excess of the acquisition cost of businesses over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired. Impairment testing for goodwill is performed annually in the fourth fiscal quarter. The Company has the option to perform a qualitative
assessment to determine if the fair value of the entity is less than its carrying value. However, the Company may elect to perform an impairment test even if no indications of a potential impairment exist. The impairment test for goodwill uses a
two-step approach, which is performed at the reporting unit level. We have determined that in our case, the reporting units are our operating segments since that is the lowest level at which discrete, reliable financial and cash flow information is
available. Step one compares the fair value of the reporting unit (calculated using a market approach and/or a discounted cash flow method) to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, there is a potential impairment and step
two must be performed. Step two compares the carrying value of the reporting unit s goodwill to its implied fair value (i.e., fair value of reporting unit less the fair value of the unit s assets and liabilities, including identifiable
intangible assets). If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount of goodwill, an impairment is recognized.   
   Intangible Assets Not Subject to Amortization       A significant portion of our intangible assets are wireless licenses that provide our wireless operations with the exclusive right to utilize designated radio frequency spectrum to provide wireless
communication services. While licenses are issued for only a fixed time, generally ten years, such licenses are subject to renewal by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). Renewals of licenses have occurred routinely and at nominal cost.
Moreover, we have determined that there are currently no legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factors that limit the useful life of our wireless licenses. As a result, we treat the wireless licenses as an indefinite-lived
intangible asset. We reevaluate the useful life determination for wireless licenses each year to determine whether events and circumstances continue to support an indefinite useful life.   

We test our wireless licenses for potential impairment annually. We evaluate our licenses on
an aggregate basis using a direct value approach. The direct value approach estimates fair value using a discounted cash flow analysis to estimate what a marketplace participant would be willing to pay to purchase the aggregated wireless licenses as
of the valuation date. If the fair value of the aggregated wireless licenses is less than the aggregated carrying amount of the licenses, an impairment is recognized.      Interest expense incurred while qualifying activities are performed to ready wireless licenses for their intended use is capitalized as part of wireless licenses. The capitalization period ends when the
development is discontinued or substantially complete and the license is ready for its intended use.       Intangible Assets Subject to
Amortization and Long-Lived Assets       Our intangible assets that do not have indefinite lives (primarily customer lists and
non-network internal-use software) are amortized over their useful lives. All of our intangible assets subject to amortization and long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount of the asset may not be recoverable. If any indications were present, we would test for recoverability by comparing the carrying amount of the asset group to the net undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated from the asset group. If
those net undiscounted cash flows do not exceed the carrying amount, we would perform the next step, which is to determine the fair value of the asset and record an impairment, if any. We reevaluate the useful life determinations for these
intangible assets each year to determine whether events and circumstances warrant a revision in their remaining useful lives.   
  For information related to the carrying amount of goodwill by segment, wireless licenses and other intangible assets, as well as the
major components and average useful lives of our other acquired intangible assets, see Note 3.       Fair Value Measurements    
  Fair value of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities is defined as an exit price, representing the amount that would be
received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. The three-tier hierarchy for inputs used in measuring fair value, which prioritizes the inputs used in the methodologies of measuring
fair value for assets and liabilities, is as follows:      Level 1 Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
     Level 2 Observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities   
  Level 3 No observable pricing inputs in the market      Financial assets and financial liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurements. Our assessment of the significance of a
particular input to the fair value measurements requires judgment, and may affect the valuation of the assets and liabilities being measured and their placement within the fair value hierarchy.   
   Income Taxes       Our
effective tax rate is based on pre-tax income, statutory tax rates, tax laws and regulations and tax planning strategies available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate.   
  Deferred income taxes are provided for temporary differences in the bases between financial statement and income tax assets and
liabilities. Deferred income taxes are recalculated annually at tax rates then in effect. We record valuation allowances to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized.  
  We use a two-step approach for recognizing and measuring tax benefits taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The first step is
recognition: we determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. In evaluating
whether a tax position has met the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, we presume that the position will be examined by the appropriate taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. The second step is measurement: a
tax position that meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold is measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. The tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50
percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Differences between tax positions taken in a tax return and amounts recognized in the financial statements will generally result in one or more of the following: an increase in a liability
for income taxes payable, a reduction of an income tax refund receivable, a reduction in a deferred tax asset, or an increase in a deferred tax liability.      The accounting standard relating to income taxes generated by leveraged lease transactions requires that changes in the projected timing of income tax cash flows generated by a leveraged lease transaction
be recognized as a gain or loss in the year in which the change occurs.      Significant management judgment is required in evaluating our tax
positions and in determining our effective tax rate.   

Stock-Based Compensation       We measure and recognize compensation expense for all stock-based compensation awards made to employees and directors based on estimated fair values. See Note 10 for further details.   
   Foreign Currency Translation       The functional currency of our foreign operations is generally the local currency. For these foreign entities, we translate income statement amounts at average exchange rates for the period, and we
translate assets and liabilities at end-of-period exchange rates. We record these translation adjustments in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of Equity, in our consolidated balance sheets. We report exchange gains
and losses on intercompany foreign currency transactions of a long-term nature in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Other exchange gains and losses are reported in income.       Employee Benefit Plans       Pension and postretirement health care and life
insurance benefits earned during the year as well as interest on projected benefit obligations are accrued currently. Prior service costs and credits resulting from changes in plan benefits are generally amortized over the average remaining service
period of the employees expected to receive benefits. Expected return on plan assets is determined by applying the return on assets assumption to the actual fair value of plan assets. Actuarial gains and losses are recognized in operating results in
the year in which they occur. These gains and losses are measured annually as of December 31 or upon a remeasurement event. Verizon management employees no longer earn pension benefits or earn service towards the company retiree medical subsidy
(see Note 11).      We recognize a pension or a postretirement plan s funded status as either an asset or liability on the
consolidated balance sheets. Also, we measure any unrecognized prior service costs and credits that arise during the period as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of applicable income tax.   
   Derivative Instruments    
  We have entered into derivative transactions primarily to manage our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest
rates, equity and commodity prices. We employ risk management strategies, which may include the use of a variety of derivatives including cross currency swaps, foreign currency and prepaid forwards and collars, interest rate and commodity swap
agreements and interest rate locks. We do not hold derivatives for trading purposes.      We measure all derivatives, including
derivatives embedded in other financial instruments, at fair value and recognize them as either assets or liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. Our derivative instruments are valued primarily using models based on readily observable market
parameters for all substantial terms of our derivative contracts and thus are classified as Level 2. Changes in the fair values of derivative instruments not qualifying as hedges or any ineffective portion of hedges are recognized in earnings in the
current period. Changes in the fair values of derivative instruments used effectively as fair value hedges are recognized in earnings, along with changes in the fair value of the hedged item. Changes in the fair value of the effective portions of
cash flow hedges are reported in Other comprehensive income and recognized in earnings when the hedged item is recognized in earnings.   
   Recently Adopted Accounting Standards       During the first quarter of 2012, we adopted the accounting standard update regarding the presentation of comprehensive income. This update was issued to increase the prominence of items reported in other
comprehensive income. The update requires that all nonowner changes in stockholders  equity be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate, but consecutive statements. In connection with the
adoption of this standard our consolidated financial statements include a separate statement of comprehensive income.      During
the first quarter of 2012, we adopted the accounting standard update regarding fair value measurement. This update was issued to provide a consistent definition of fair value and ensure that the fair value measurement and disclosure requirements are
similar between U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. This standard update also changes certain fair value measurement principles and enhances the disclosure requirements particularly for Level 3 fair value measurements. The
adoption of this standard update did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.      During the first
quarter of 2012, we adopted the accounting standard update regarding testing of goodwill for impairment. This standard update gives companies the option to perform a qualitative assessment to first assess whether the fair value of a reporting unit
is less than its carrying amount. If an entity determines it is not more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing the two-step impairment test is unnecessary. The Company did not
elect to use the qualitative assessment in 2012.   

Recent Accounting Standards       In July 2012, the accounting standard update regarding testing of intangible assets for impairment was issued. This standard update allows companies the option to perform a qualitative assessment to
determine whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. An entity is not required to calculate the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset and perform the quantitative impairment test
unless the entity determines that it is more likely than not the asset is impaired. We will adopt this standard update during the first quarter of 2013. The adoption of this standard update is not expected to have a significant impact on our
consolidated financial statements.      In February 2013, the accounting standard update regarding reclassifications out of
accumulated other comprehensive income was issued. This standard update requires companies to report the effect of significant reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income on the respective line items in our consolidated
statements of income if the amount being reclassified is required under U.S. GAAP to be reclassified in its entirety to net income. For other amounts that are not required under U.S. GAAP to be reclassified in their entirety to net income in the
same reporting period, an entity is required to cross-reference other disclosures required under U.S. GAAP that provide additional detail about those amounts. We will adopt this standard in the first quarter of 2013. The adoption of this standard
update is not expected to have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.   
    
      Note 2

Acquisitions and Divestitures     
     Verizon Wireless        Spectrum Licenses       During the third quarter of 2012, after receiving the
required regulatory approvals, Verizon Wireless completed the following previously announced transactions in which we acquired wireless spectrum that will be used to deploy additional fourth-generation (4G) Long Term Evolution (LTE) capacity:

Verizon Wireless acquired Advanced Wireless Service (AWS) spectrum in separate transactions with SpectrumCo, LLC (SpectrumCo) and Cox TMI Wireless,
LLC for which it paid an aggregate of $3.9 billion at the time of the closings. Verizon Wireless has also recorded a liability of $0.4 billion related to a three-year service obligation to SpectrumCo s members pursuant to commercial
agreements executed concurrently with the SpectrumCo transaction.          

Verizon Wireless completed license purchase and exchange transactions with Leap Wireless, Savary Island Wireless, which is majority owned by Leap
Wireless, and a subsidiary of T-Mobile USA, Inc. (T-Mobile). As a result of these transactions, Verizon Wireless received an aggregate $2.6 billion of AWS and PCS licenses at fair value and net cash proceeds of $0.2 billion, transferred certain AWS
licenses to T-Mobile and a 700 megahertz (MHz) lower A block license to Leap Wireless, and recorded an immaterial gain.         During 2011, Verizon Wireless entered into commercial agreements, modified in 2012, with affiliates of Comcast Corporation, Time Warner Cable, Bright House Networks and Cox Communications Inc. (the cable
companies). Through these agreements, the cable companies and Verizon Wireless became agents to sell certain of one another s products and services and, over time, the cable companies will have the option, subject to the terms and conditions of
the agreements, of selling Verizon Wireless service on a wholesale basis.      During the fourth quarter of 2012, we entered into
license exchange agreements with T-Mobile and Cricket License Company, LLC, a subsidiary of Leap Wireless, to exchange certain AWS licenses. These non-cash exchanges, which are subject to approval by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and
other customary closing conditions, are expected to close in 2013. The exchange includes a number of intra-market swaps that will result in more efficient use of the AWS band. As a result of these transactions, we expect to record an immaterial
gain.      On April 18, 2012, we announced plans to initiate an open sale process for all of our 700 MHz lower A and B block
spectrum licenses, subject to the receipt of acceptable bids. We acquired these licenses as part of FCC Auction 73 in 2008. On January 25, 2013, Verizon Wireless agreed to sell 39 lower 700 MHz B block spectrum licenses to AT T Inc.
(AT T) in exchange for a payment of $1.9 billion and the transfer by AT T to Verizon Wireless of AWS (10 MHz) licenses in certain markets in the western United States. Verizon Wireless also agreed to sell certain lower 700 MHz B block
spectrum licenses to an investment firm for a payment of $0.2 billion. These transactions are subject to approval by the FCC and the Department of Justice (DOJ). When finalized, the sales will result in the completion of the open sale
process. We expect to deploy the remaining licenses as necessary to meet our own spectrum needs.       Alltel Divestiture Markets
      As a condition of the regulatory approvals to complete the acquisition of Alltel Corporation (Alltel) in January 2009,
Verizon Wireless was required to divest overlapping properties in 105 operating markets in 24 states (Alltel Divestiture Markets). During the second quarter of 2010, AT T   

Mobility acquired 79 of the 105 Alltel Divestiture Markets, including licenses and network assets, for approximately $2.4 billion in cash and Atlantic Tele-Network, Inc. acquired the remaining 26
Alltel Divestiture Markets, including licenses and network assets, for $0.2 billion in cash.      During the second quarter of
2010, we recorded a tax charge of approximately $0.2 billion for the taxable gain associated with these transactions.       Other
      During 2012, we acquired various other wireless licenses and markets for cash consideration that was not significant and
recorded $0.2 billion of goodwill as a result of these transactions.      During 2011, we acquired various other wireless licenses and markets for
cash consideration that was not significant.      During 2010, Verizon Wireless acquired the net assets and related customers of
six operating markets in Louisiana and Mississippi in a transaction with AT T for cash consideration of $0.2 billion. The purchase price allocation resulted in $0.1 billion of wireless licenses and $0.1 billion in goodwill.   
   Merger Integration Charges       During 2010, we recorded pre-tax merger integration charges of $0.9 billion primarily related to the Alltel acquisition. These charges were primarily due to the decommissioning of overlapping cell sites,
preacquisition contingencies, handset conversions and trade name amortization.       Wireline    
   HUGHES Telematics, Inc.    
  On June 1, 2012, we agreed to acquire HUGHES Telematics, Inc. (HUGHES Telematics) for approximately $12 per share in cash for a total
acquisition price of $0.6 billion and we completed the acquisition on July 26, 2012. As a result of the transaction, HUGHES Telematics became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Verizon. The consolidated financial statements include the results of
HUGHES Telematics  operations from the date the acquisition closed. Upon closing, we recorded approximately $0.6 billion of goodwill, $0.1 billion of other intangibles, and assumed the debt obligations of HUGHES Telematics, which were
approximately $0.1 billion as of the date of acquisition, and which were repaid by Verizon. Had this acquisition been completed on January 1, 2012 or 2011, the results of the acquired operations of HUGHES Telematics would not have had a
significant impact on the consolidated net income attributable to Verizon. The acquisition has accelerated our ability to bring more telematics offerings to market for existing and new HUGHES Telematics and Verizon customers.   
  The acquisition of HUGHES Telematics was accounted for as a business combination under the acquisition method. The cost of the
acquisition was allocated to the assets and liabilities acquired based on their fair values as of the close of the acquisition, with the excess amount being recorded as goodwill.       Terremark Worldwide, Inc.       During April 2011, we acquired Terremark
Worldwide, Inc. (Terremark), a global provider of information technology infrastructure and cloud services, for $19 per share in cash. Closing and other direct acquisition-related costs totaled approximately $13 million after-tax. The acquisition
was completed via a  short-form  merger under Delaware law through which Terremark became a wholly owned subsidiary of Verizon. The acquisition enhanced Verizon s offerings to business and government customers globally.   
  The consolidated financial statements include the results of Terremark s operations from the date the acquisition closed. Had this
acquisition been consummated on January 1, 2011 or 2010, the results of Terremark s acquired operations would not have had a significant impact on the consolidated net income attributable to Verizon. The debt obligations of Terremark that
were outstanding at the time of its acquisition by Verizon were repaid during May 2011.      The acquisition of Terremark was
accounted for as a business combination under the acquisition method. The cost of the acquisition was allocated to the assets and liabilities acquired based on their fair values as of the close of the acquisition, with the excess amount being
recorded as goodwill. The fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired were determined using the income and cost approaches. The income approach was primarily used to value the intangible assets, consisting primarily of customer relationships.
The cost approach was used, as appropriate, for plant, property and equipment. The fair value of the majority of the long-term debt acquired was primarily valued based on redemption prices. The final purchase price allocation presented below
includes insignificant adjustments from the initial purchase price to the values of certain assets and liabilities acquired.   

The following table summarizes the allocation of the acquisition cost to the assets
acquired, including cash acquired of $0.1 billion, and liabilities acquired as of the acquisition date:       
    Intangible assets subject to amortization include customer lists which are being amortized on a
straight-line basis over 13 years, and other intangibles which are being amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of 5 years.   
   Telephone Access Line Spin-off       On July 1, 2010, after receiving regulatory approval, we completed the spin-off of the shares of a newly formed subsidiary of Verizon (Spinco) to Verizon stockholders and the merger of Spinco with
Frontier Communications Corporation (Frontier). Spinco held defined assets and liabilities that were used in Verizon s local exchange businesses and related activities in 14 states. The total value of the transaction to Verizon and its
stockholders was approximately $8.6 billion. The accompanying consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010 include these operations prior to the completion of the spin-off.   
  During 2010, we recorded pre-tax charges of $0.5 billion, primarily for costs incurred related to network, non-network software and other
activities to enable the divested markets in the transaction with Frontier to operate on a stand-alone basis subsequent to the closing of the transaction; professional advisory and legal fees in connection with this transaction; and fees related to
the early extinguishment of debt from the use of proceeds from the transaction.       Other    
  In February 2012, Verizon entered into a venture with Redbox Automated Retail, LLC (Redbox), a subsidiary of Coinstar, Inc., to offer
customers nationwide access to media rentals through online and mobile content streaming as well as physical media rentals through Redbox kiosks. Verizon holds a 65% majority ownership share in the venture and Redbox holds a 35% ownership
share. The venture is consolidated by Verizon for reporting purposes. In December 2012, the venture introduced its product portfolio, which includes subscription services, under the name Redbox Instant by Verizon. The initial funding
related to the formation of the venture is not significant to Verizon.      During 2011, we acquired a provider of cloud software technology for
cash consideration that was not significant.   

Note 3     

Wireless Licenses, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets    
     Wireless Licenses       Changes in the carrying amount of Wireless licenses are as follows:       
    Reclassifications, adjustments, and other includes the exchanges of wireless licenses in 2012. See Note 2
( Acquisitions and Divestitures ) for additional details.      At December 31, 2012 and 2011, approximately $7.3
billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, of wireless licenses were under development for commercial service for which we were capitalizing interest costs.     The average remaining renewal period of our wireless license portfolio was 6.1 years as of December 31, 2012 (see Note 1, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets    Intangible Assets Not Subject
to Amortization ).       Goodwill       Changes in the carrying amount of Goodwill are as follows:       

Other Intangible Assets       The following table displays the composition of Other intangible assets, net:       
    The amortization expense for Other intangible assets was as follows:   
   
    Estimated annual amortization expense for Other intangible assets is as follows:   

Note 4

Plant, Property and Equipment    
    The following table displays the details of Plant, property and equipment, which is stated at cost:   

Note 5     

Investments in Unconsolidated Businesses    
    Our investments in unconsolidated businesses are comprised of the following:   
   
    Dividends and repatriations of foreign earnings received from these investees amounted to $0.4 billion in
2012, $0.5 billion in 2011 and $0.5 billion in 2010. See Note 12 regarding undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries.       Equity
Method Investments        Vodafone Omnitel       Vodafone Omnitel N.V. (Vodafone Omnitel) is one of the largest wireless communications companies in Italy. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, our investment in Vodafone Omnitel included goodwill of $1.0
billion, respectively.       Other Equity Investees       We have limited partnership investments in entities that invest in affordable housing projects, for which we provide funding as a limited partner and receive tax deductions and tax credits based on our
partnership interests. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had equity investments in these partnerships of $0.9 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively. We adjust the carrying value of these investments for any losses incurred by the limited
partnerships through earnings.      The remaining investments include wireless partnerships in the U.S. and other smaller domestic
and international investments.   

Summarized Financial Information       Summarized financial information for our equity investees is as follows:       Balance Sheet
       
     Income Statement    

Note 6

Noncontrolling Interest    
    Noncontrolling interests in equity of subsidiaries were as follows:   
   
     Wireless Joint Venture       Our Verizon Wireless segment is primarily comprised of Cellco Partnership doing business as Verizon Wireless (Verizon Wireless). Cellco Partnership is a joint venture formed in April 2000 by the
combination of the U.S. wireless operations and interests of Verizon and Vodafone. Verizon owns a controlling 55% interest in Verizon Wireless and Vodafone owns the remaining 45%.       Special Distributions       In November 2012, the Board of Representatives of
Verizon Wireless declared a distribution to its owners, which was paid in the fourth quarter of 2012 in proportion to their partnership interests on the payment date, in the aggregate amount of $8.5 billion. As a result, Vodafone received a cash
payment of $3.8 billion and the remainder of the distribution was received by Verizon.      In July 2011, the Board of
Representatives of Verizon Wireless declared a distribution to its owners, which was paid in the first quarter of 2012 in proportion to their partnership interests on the payment date, in the aggregate amount of $10 billion. As a result, Vodafone
received a cash payment of $4.5 billion and the remainder of the distribution was received by Verizon.   

Note 7     

Leasing Arrangements    
     As Lessor       We are the lessor in leveraged and direct financing lease agreements for commercial aircraft and power generating facilities, which comprise the majority of our leasing portfolio along with
telecommunications equipment, commercial real estate property and other equipment. These leases have remaining terms of up to 38 years as of December 31, 2012. In addition, we lease space on certain of our cell towers to other wireless
carriers. Minimum lease payments receivable represent unpaid rentals, less principal and interest on third-party nonrecourse debt relating to leveraged lease transactions. Since we have no general liability for this debt, which is secured by a
senior security interest in the leased equipment and rentals, the related principal and interest have been offset against the minimum lease payments receivable in accordance with GAAP. All recourse debt is reflected in our consolidated balance
sheets.      At each reporting period, we monitor the credit quality of the various lessees in our portfolios. Regarding the
leveraged lease portfolio, external credit reports are used where available and where not available we use internally developed indicators. These indicators or internal credit risk grades factor historic loss experience, the value of the underlying
collateral, delinquency trends, and industry and general economic conditions. The credit quality of our lessees primarily varies from AAA to CCC+. For each reporting period the leveraged leases within the portfolio are reviewed for indicators of
impairment where it is probable the rent due according to the contractual terms of the lease will not be collected. All significant accounts, individually or in the aggregate, are current and none are classified as impaired.   
  Finance lease receivables, which are included in Prepaid expenses and other and Other assets in our consolidated balance sheets, are
comprised of the following:       
    Accumulated deferred taxes arising from leveraged leases, which are included in Deferred income taxes,
amounted to $1.2 billion at December 31, 2012 and $1.6 billion at December 31, 2011.      The following table is a summary of the
components of income from leveraged leases:       

The future minimum lease payments to be received from noncancelable capital leases (direct
financing and leveraged leases), net of nonrecourse loan payments related to leveraged leases and allowances for doubtful accounts, along with expected receipts relating to operating leases for the periods shown at December 31, 2012, are as
follows:       
     As Lessee       We lease certain facilities and equipment for use in our operations under both capital and operating leases. Total rent expense under operating leases amounted to $2.5 billion in 2012, 2011 and 2010,
respectively.      Amortization of capital leases is included in Depreciation and amortization expense in the consolidated
statements of income. Capital lease amounts included in Plant, property and equipment are as follows:       
    The aggregate minimum rental commitments under noncancelable leases for the periods shown at
December 31, 2012, are as follows:       

Note 8     

Debt    
    Changes to debt during 2012 are as follows:   
   
    Debt maturing within one year is as follows:   
   
    The weighted-average interest rate for our commercial paper outstanding was 0.4% at December 31,
2012 and 2011, respectively.       Credit Facility       On August 13, 2012, we amended our credit facility to reduce fees and borrowing costs and extend the maturity date to August 12, 2016. As of December 31, 2012, the unused borrowing capacity
under this $6.2 billion four-year credit facility with a group of major financial institutions was approximately $6.1 billion.   

Long-Term Debt       Outstanding long-term debt obligations are as follows:       
     2012       On November 2, 2012, we announced the commencement of a tender offer (the Tender Offer) to purchase for cash any and all of the outstanding $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 8.95% Verizon
Communications Notes due 2039. In the Tender Offer that was completed November 9, 2012, $0.9 billion aggregate principal amount of the notes was purchased at a price of 186.5% of the principal amount of the notes (see  Early Debt
Redemption and Other Costs  below) and $0.35 billion principal amount of the notes remains outstanding. Any accrued and unpaid interest on the principal purchased was paid to the date of purchase.   
  During November 2012, we issued $4.5 billion aggregate principal amount of fixed rate notes resulting in cash proceeds of approximately
$4.47 billion, net of discounts and issuance costs. The issuances consisted of the following: $1.0 billion of 0.70% Notes due 2015, $0.5 billion of 1.10% Notes due 2017, $1.75 billion of 2.45% Notes due 2022 and $1.25 billion of 3.85% Notes due
2042. During December 2012, the net proceeds were used to redeem: $0.7 billion of the $2.0 billion of 8.75% Notes due November 2018 at a redemption price of 140.2% of the principal amount of the notes (see  Early Debt Redemption and Other
Costs  below), $0.75 billion of 4.35% Notes due February 2013 at a redemption price of 100.7% of the principal amount of the notes and certain telephone subsidiary debt (see  Telephone and Other Subsidiary Debt  below), as well as for
the Tender Offer and other general corporate purposes. Any accrued and unpaid interest was paid to the date of redemption.      In addition,
during 2012 we utilized $0.2 billion under fixed rate vendor financing facilities.   

2011       During March 2011, we issued $6.25 billion aggregate principal amount of fixed and floating rate notes resulting in cash proceeds of approximately $6.19 billion, net of discounts and issuance costs. The
issuances consisted of the following: $1.0 billion of Notes due 2014 that bear interest at a rate equal to three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 0.61%, $1.5 billion of 1.95% Notes due 2014, $1.25 billion of 3.00% Notes due 2016,
$1.5 billion of 4.60% Notes due 2021 and $1.0 billion of 6.00% Notes due 2041. The net proceeds were used for the repayment of commercial paper and other general corporate purposes, as well as for the redemption of certain telephone subsidiary debt
during April 2011 (see  Telephone and Other Subsidiary Debt  below).      During November 2011, we issued $4.6 billion
aggregate principal amount of fixed rate notes resulting in cash proceeds of approximately $4.55 billion, net of discounts and issuance costs. The issuances consisted of the following: $0.8 billion of 1.25% Notes due 2014, $1.3 billion of 2.00%
Notes due 2016, $1.9 billion of 3.50% Notes due 2021 and $0.8 billion of 4.75% Notes due 2041. During November 2011, the net proceeds were used to redeem $1.0 billion of 7.375% Verizon Communications Notes due September 2012 at a redemption price of
105.2% of principal amount of the notes, $0.6 billion of 6.875% Verizon Communications Notes due June 2012 at a redemption price of 103.5% of principal amount of the notes and certain telephone subsidiary debt (see  Telephone and Other
Subsidiary Debt  below), as well as for the repayment of commercial paper and other general corporate purposes. Any accrued and unpaid interest was paid to the date of redemption. In addition, we settled the interest rate swap with a notional
value totaling $1.0 billion related to the $1.0 billion of 7.375% Verizon Communications Notes due September 2012.      During
2011, $0.5 billion of 5.35% Verizon Communications Notes matured and were repaid and we utilized $0.3 billion under fixed rate vendor financing facilities.      The debt obligations of Terremark that were outstanding at the time of its acquisition by Verizon were repaid during the second quarter of 2011.       Verizon Wireless   Notes Payable and Other       Verizon Wireless Capital
LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Verizon Wireless, is a limited liability company formed under the laws of Delaware on December 7, 2001 as a special purpose finance subsidiary to facilitate the offering of debt securities of Verizon Wireless
by acting as co-issuer. Other than the financing activities as a co-issuer of Verizon Wireless indebtedness, Verizon Wireless Capital LLC has no material assets, operations or revenues. Verizon Wireless is jointly and severally liable with
Verizon Wireless Capital LLC for co-issued notes.       2012       During February 2012, $0.8 billion of 5.25% Verizon Wireless Notes matured and were repaid. During July 2012, $0.8 billion of 7.0% Verizon Wireless Notes matured and were repaid.   
   2011       During May 2011,
$4.0 billion aggregate principal amount of Verizon Wireless two-year fixed and floating rate notes matured and were repaid. During December 2011, we repaid $0.9 billion upon maturity for the  0.7 billion of 7.625% Verizon Wireless Notes and the
related cross currency swap was settled.       Telephone and Other Subsidiary Debt        2012       During January 2012, $1.0 billion of 5.875% Verizon New Jersey Inc.
Debentures matured and were repaid. During December 2012, we redeemed the $1.0 billion of 4.625% Verizon Virginia LLC Debentures, Series A, due March 2013 at a redemption price of 101.1% of the principal amount of the debentures. Any accrued and
unpaid interest was paid to the date of redemption.      In addition, during 2012, various Telephone and Other Subsidiary
Debentures totaling approximately $0.2 billion were repaid and any accrued and unpaid interest was paid to the date of payment.       2011
      During April 2011, we redeemed the $1.0 billion of 5.65% Verizon Pennsylvania Inc. Debentures due November 15, 2011
at a redemption price of 102.9% of the principal amount of the debentures; and the $1.0 billion of 6.50% Verizon New England Inc. Debentures due September 15, 2011 at a redemption price of 102.3% of the principal amount of the debentures. Any
accrued and unpaid interest was paid through the date of redemption.   

During November 2011, we redeemed the following debentures: $0.4 billion of 6.125% Verizon
Florida Inc. Debentures due January 2013 at a redemption price of 106.3% of the principal amount of the debentures; $0.5 billion of 6.125% Verizon Maryland Inc. Debentures due March 2012 at a redemption price of 101.5% of the principal amount of the
debentures; and $1.0 billion of 6.875% Verizon New York Inc. Debentures due April 2012 at a redemption price of 102.2% of the principal amount of the debentures. Any accrued and unpaid interest was paid through the date of redemption.   
   Early Debt Redemption and Other Costs       During November 2012, we recorded debt redemption costs of $0.8 billion in connection with the purchase of $0.9 billion of the $1.25 billion of 8.95% Verizon Communications Notes due 2039 in a cash tender
offer.      During December 2012, we recorded debt redemption costs of $0.3 billion in connection with the early redemption of
$0.7 billion of the $2.0 billion of 8.75% Verizon Communications Notes due 2018, $1.0 billion of 4.625% Verizon Virginia LLC Debentures, Series A, due March 2013 and $0.75 billion of 4.35% Verizon Communications Notes due February 2013, as well as
$0.3 billion of other costs.      During November 2011, we recorded debt redemption costs of $0.1 billion in connection with the
early redemption of $1.0 billion of 7.375% Verizon Communications Notes due September 2012, $0.6 billion of 6.875% Verizon Communications Notes due June 2012, $0.4 billion of 6.125% Verizon Florida Inc. Debentures due January 2013, $0.5 billion of
6.125% Verizon Maryland Inc. Debentures due March 2012 and $1.0 billion of 6.875% Verizon New York Inc. Debentures due April 2012.   
   Guarantees       We guarantee
the debentures and first mortgage bonds of our operating telephone company subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2012, $4.3 billion principal amount of these obligations remain outstanding. Each guarantee will remain in place for the life of the
obligation unless terminated pursuant to its terms, including the operating telephone company no longer being a wholly-owned subsidiary of Verizon.      We also guarantee the debt obligations of GTE Corporation that were issued and outstanding prior to July 1, 2003. As of December 31, 2012, $1.7 billion principal amount of these obligations
remain outstanding.       Debt Covenants       We and our consolidated subsidiaries are in compliance with all debt covenants.       Maturities of
Long-Term Debt       Maturities of long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2012 are as follows:   

Note 9     

Fair Value Measurements and Financial Instruments     
    The following table presents the balances of assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31,
2012:       

(1)      
    quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities      

(2)      
    observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities      

(3)      
    no observable pricing inputs in the market         Equity securities consist of investments in common stock of domestic and international corporations measured using quoted prices in active markets.   
  Fixed income securities consist primarily of investments in municipal bonds that do not have quoted prices in active markets. For these
securities, we use alternative matrix pricing resulting in these debt securities being classified as Level 2.      Derivative
contracts are valued using models based on readily observable market parameters for all substantial terms of our derivative contracts and thus are classified within Level 2. We use mid-market pricing for fair value measurements of our derivative
instruments.      We recognize transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy as of the end of the reporting period. There
were no transfers within the fair value hierarchy during 2012.       Fair Value of Short-term and Long-term Debt    
  The fair value of our debt is determined using various methods, including quoted prices for identical terms and maturities, which is a
Level 1 measurement, as well as quoted prices for similar terms and maturities in inactive markets and future cash flows discounted at current rates, which are Level 2 measurements. The fair value of our short-term and long-term debt, excluding
capital leases, was as follows:       
     Derivative Instruments        Interest Rate Swaps       We have entered into domestic interest rate swaps to
achieve a targeted mix of fixed and variable rate debt. We principally receive fixed rates and pay variable rates based on the London Interbank Offered Rate, resulting in a net increase or decrease to Interest expense. These swaps are designated as
fair value hedges and hedge against changes in the fair value of our debt portfolio. We record the interest rate swaps at fair value on   

our consolidated balance sheets as assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2012 the fair value of these interest rate swaps was not material, and at December 31, 2011, the fair value
was $0.6 billion, primarily included in Other assets and Long-term debt. As of December 31, 2012, the total notional amount of these interest rate swaps was $1.3 billion. During 2012, interest rate swaps with a notional value of $5.8 billion
were settled. As a result of the settlements, we received net proceeds of $0.7 billion, including accrued interest which is included in Other, net operating activities in the consolidated statement of cash flows. The fair value basis adjustment to
the underlying debt instruments will be recognized into earnings as a reduction of Interest expense over the remaining lives of the underlying debt obligations.       Forward Interest Rate Swaps       In order to manage our exposure to future
interest rate changes, during the second quarter of 2012, we entered into forward interest rate swaps with a notional value of $1.0 billion. We designated these contracts as cash flow hedges. In November 2012, we settled these forward interest rate
swaps and the pretax loss was not material.       Cross Currency Swaps    
  Verizon Wireless previously entered into cross currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges to exchange approximately $1.6 billion of
British Pound Sterling and Euro-denominated debt into U.S. dollars and to fix our future interest and principal payments in U.S. dollars, as well as to mitigate the impact of foreign currency transaction gains or losses. A portion of the gains
and losses recognized in Other comprehensive income was reclassified to Other income and (expense), net to offset the related pretax foreign currency transaction gain or loss on the underlying debt obligations. The fair value of the outstanding
swaps was not material at December 31, 2012 or December 31, 2011. During 2012 and 2011 the gains and losses with respect to these swaps were not material.       Prepaid Forward Agreement       During the first quarter of 2009, we entered
into a privately negotiated prepaid forward agreement for 14 million shares of Verizon common stock at a cost of approximately $0.4 billion. We terminated the prepaid forward agreement with respect to 5 million of the shares during the
fourth quarter of 2009 and 9 million of the shares during the first quarter of 2010, which resulted in the delivery of those shares to Verizon.       Concentrations of Credit Risk       Financial instruments that subject us to
concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of temporary cash investments, short-term and long-term investments, trade receivables, certain notes receivable, including lease receivables, and derivative contracts. Our policy is to deposit our
temporary cash investments with major financial institutions. Counterparties to our derivative contracts are also major financial institutions. The financial institutions have all been accorded high ratings by primary rating agencies. We limit the
dollar amount of contracts entered into with any one financial institution and monitor our counterparties  credit ratings. We generally do not give or receive collateral on swap agreements due to our credit rating and those of our
counterparties. While we may be exposed to credit losses due to the nonperformance of our counterparties, we consider the risk remote and do not expect the settlement of these transactions to have a material effect on our results of operations or
financial condition.        
      Note 10

Stock-Based Compensation     
     Verizon Communications Long-Term Incentive Plan    
  The Verizon Communications Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (the Plan) permits the granting of stock options, stock appreciation rights,
restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares, performance stock units and other awards. The maximum number of shares available for awards from the Plan is 119.6 million shares.   
   Restricted Stock Units    
  The Plan provides for grants of Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) that generally vest at the end of the third year after the grant. The RSUs
granted prior to January 1, 2010 are classified as liability awards because the RSUs will be paid in cash upon vesting. The RSUs granted subsequent to January 1, 2010 are classified as equity awards because the RSUs will be paid in Verizon
common stock upon vesting. The RSU equity awards are measured using the grant date fair value of Verizon common stock and are not remeasured at the end of each reporting period. Dividend equivalent units are also paid to participants at the time the
RSU award is paid, and in the same proportion as the RSU award.       Performance Stock Units    
  The Plan also provides for grants of Performance Stock Units (PSUs) that generally vest at the end of the third year after the grant. As
defined by the Plan, the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors determines the number of PSUs a participant earns based on the extent to which the corresponding performance goals have been achieved over the three-year performance cycle.
The PSUs are classified as liability awards because the   

PSU awards are paid in cash upon vesting. The PSU award liability is measured at its fair value at the end of each reporting period and, therefore, will fluctuate based on the price of Verizon
common stock as well as performance relative to the targets. Dividend equivalent units are also paid to participants at the time that the PSU award is determined and paid, and in the same proportion as the PSU award. The granted and cancelled
activity for the PSU award includes adjustments for the performance goals achieved.      The following table summarizes Verizon s Restricted
Stock Unit and Performance Stock Unit activity:       
    As of December 31, 2012, unrecognized compensation expense related to the unvested portion of
Verizon s RSUs and PSUs was approximately $0.4 billion and is expected to be recognized over approximately two years.   
  The RSUs granted in 2012 and 2011, and classified as equity awards, have weighted-average grant date fair values of $38.67 and $36.38 per
unit, respectively. During 2012, 2011 and 2010, we paid $0.6 billion, $0.7 billion and $0.7 billion, respectively, to settle RSUs and PSUs classified as liability awards.       Verizon Wireless  Long-Term Incentive Plan       The Verizon Wireless
Long-Term Incentive Plan (the Wireless Plan) provides compensation opportunities to eligible employees of Verizon Wireless (the Partnership). Under the Wireless Plan, Value Appreciation Rights (VARs) were granted to eligible employees. As of
December 31, 2012, all VARs were fully vested. We have not granted new VARs since 2004.      VARs reflect the change in the
value of the Partnership, as defined in the Wireless Plan. Similar to stock options, the valuation is determined using a Black-Scholes model. Once VARs become vested, employees can exercise their VARs and receive a payment that is equal to the
difference between the VAR price on the date of grant and the VAR price on the date of exercise, less applicable taxes. All outstanding VARs are fully exercisable and have a maximum term of 10 years. All VARs were granted at a price equal to the
estimated fair value of the Partnership, as defined in the Wireless Plan, at the date of the grant.      The following table summarizes the
assumptions used in the Black-Scholes model during 2012:       
    The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of the measurement
date. Expected volatility was based on a blend of the historical and implied volatility of publicly traded peer companies for a period equal to the VARs expected life ending on the measurement date.   

The following table summarizes the Value Appreciation Rights activity:   
   
    During 2012, 2011 and 2010, we paid $0.1 billion, respectively, to
settle VARs classified as liability awards.       Stock-Based Compensation Expense    
  After-tax compensation expense for stock-based compensation related to RSUs, PSUs, and VARs described above included in Net income
attributable to Verizon was $0.7 billion, $0.5 billion and $0.5 billion for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.       Stock Options
      The Plan provides for grants of stock options to participants at an option price per share of no less than 100% of the
fair market value of Verizon common stock on the date of grant. Each grant has a 10-year life, vesting equally over a three-year period, starting at the date of the grant. We have not granted new stock options since 2004.   
  The following table summarizes Verizon s stock option activity:       
    All stock options outstanding at
December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 were exercisable.      The following table summarizes information about Verizon s stock options
outstanding as of December 31, 2012:       

The total intrinsic value for stock options outstanding as of December 31, 2012 is not
significant. The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised was $0.1 billion in 2012 and the associated tax benefits were not significant in 2012, 2011 and 2010. The amount of cash received from the exercise of stock options was $0.3 billion
in 2012, $0.2 billion in 2011 and not significant in 2010. There was no stock option expense for 2012, 2011 and 2010.   
    
      Note 11

Employee Benefits     
    We maintain non-contributory defined benefit pension plans for many of our employees. In addition, we
maintain postretirement health care and life insurance plans for our retirees and their dependents, which are both contributory and non-contributory, and include a limit on our share of the cost for certain recent and future retirees. In accordance
with our accounting policy for pension and other postretirement benefits, operating expenses include pension and benefit related charges based on actuarial assumptions, including projected discount rates and an estimated return on plan assets. These
estimates are updated in the fourth quarter to reflect actual return on plan assets and updated actuarial assumptions. The adjustment is recognized in the income statement during the fourth quarter or upon a remeasurement event pursuant to our
accounting policy for the recognition of actuarial gains/losses.       Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits    
  Pension and other postretirement benefits for many of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Modifications in
benefits have been bargained from time to time, and we may also periodically amend the benefits in the management plans. The following tables summarize benefit costs, as well as the benefit obligations, plan assets, funded status and rate
assumptions associated with pension and postretirement health care and life insurance benefit plans.       Obligations and Funded Status

See Note 12 ( Taxes ) for details regarding the impact of the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, both of which became law in March 2010.      Beginning in
2013, as a result of federal health care reform, Verizon will no longer file for the Retiree Drug Subsidy (RDS) and will instead contract with a Medicare Part D plan on a group basis to provide prescription drug benefits to Medicare
eligible retirees. This change to our Medicare Part D strategy resulted in the adoption of plan amendments during the fourth quarter of 2010 which will allow the company to be eligible for greater Medicare Part D plan
subsidies over time.      During 2012, we reached agreements with the Communications Workers of America and the International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers on new, three-year contracts that cover approximately 43,000 Wireline employees. This resulted in the adoption of plan amendments which will result in lower other postretirement benefit costs in 2013 and beyond.
     The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $26.5 billion and $30.3 billion at
December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.      Information for pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets
follows:      

Net Periodic Cost       The following table summarizes the benefit (income) cost related to our pension and postretirement health care and life insurance plans:   
   
    Other pre-tax changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive (income)
loss are as follows:       
    The estimated prior service cost for the defined benefit pension plan that will be amortized from
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year is not significant. The estimated prior service cost for the defined benefit postretirement plans that will be amortized from Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) into net periodic benefit (income) cost over the next fiscal year is $(0.2 billion).       Assumptions
      The weighted-average assumptions used in determining benefit obligations follow:   
   
    The weighted-average assumptions used in determining net periodic cost follow:       

In order to project the long-term target investment return for the total portfolio,
estimates are prepared for the total return of each major asset class over the subsequent 10-year period. Those estimates are based on a combination of factors including the current market interest rates and valuation levels, consensus earnings
expectations and historical long-term risk premiums. To determine the aggregate return for the pension trust, the projected return of each individual asset class is then weighted according to the allocation to that investment area in the
trust s long-term asset allocation policy.      The assumed health care cost trend rates follow:   

A one percentage point change in the assumed health care cost trend rate would have the following effects:   
   
     Plan Assets       Historically, our portfolio strategy emphasized a long-term equity orientation, significant global diversification, and the use of both public and private investments. In an effort to reduce the risk of
our portfolio strategy and better align assets with liabilities, we have shifted our strategy to one that is more liability driven, where cash flows from investments better match projected benefit payments but result in lower asset returns. We
intend to reduce the likelihood that assets will decline at a time when liabilities increase (referred to as liability hedging), with the goal to reduce the risk of underfunding to the plan and its participants and beneficiaries. Both active and
passive management approaches are used depending on perceived market efficiencies and various other factors. Our diversification and risk control processes serve to minimize the concentration of risk.   
  While target allocation percentages will vary over time, the company s overall investment strategy is to achieve a mix of assets,
which allows us to meet projected benefits payments while taking into consideration risk and return. The current target allocation for plan assets is designed so that 70% of the assets have the objective of achieving a return in excess of the growth
in liabilities (comprised of public equities, private equities, real estate, hedge funds and emerging debt) and 30% of the assets are invested as liability hedging assets (typically longer duration fixed income). This allocation will shift as funded
status improves to a higher allocation to liability hedging assets. Target policies will be revisited periodically to ensure they are in line with fund objectives. Due to our diversification and risks control processes, there are no significant
concentrations of risk, in terms of sector, industry, geography or company names.      Pension and healthcare and life plans assets do not include
significant amounts of Verizon common stock.   

Pension Plans       The fair values for the pension plans by asset category at December 31, 2012 are as follows:       
    The fair values for the pension plans by asset category at December 31, 2011 are as follows:   

The following is a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balance of pension plan assets that are
measured at fair value using significant unobservable inputs:       
     Health Care and Life Plans    
  The fair values for the other postretirement benefit plans by asset category at December 31, 2012 are as follows:

The fair values for the other postretirement benefit plans by asset category at December 31, 2011 are
as follows:       
    The following are general descriptions of asset categories, as well as the valuation methodologies and
inputs used to determine the fair value of each major category of assets.      Cash and cash equivalents include short-term
investment funds, primarily in diversified portfolios of investment grade money market instruments and are valued using quoted market prices or other valuation methods, and thus are classified within Level 1 or Level 2.   
  Equity securities are investments in common stock of domestic and international corporations in a variety of industry sectors, and are
valued primarily using quoted market prices or other valuation methods, and thus are classified within Level 1 or Level 2.   
  Fixed income securities include U.S. Treasuries and agencies, debt obligations of foreign governments and domestic and foreign
corporations. Fixed income also includes investments in collateralized mortgage obligations, mortgage backed securities and interest rate swaps. The fair value of fixed income securities is based on observable prices for identical or comparable
assets, adjusted using benchmark curves, sector grouping, matrix pricing, broker/dealer quotes and issuer spreads, and thus is classified within Level 1 or Level 2.      Real estate investments include those in limited partnerships that invest in various commercial and residential real estate projects both domestically and internationally. The fair values of real estate
assets are typically determined by using income and/or cost approaches or a comparable sales approach, taking into consideration discount and capitalization rates, financial conditions, local market conditions and the status of the capital markets,
and thus are classified within Level 3.      Private equity investments include those in limited partnerships that invest in
operating companies that are not publicly traded on a stock exchange. Investment strategies in private equity include leveraged buyouts, venture capital, distressed investments and investments in natural resources. These investments are valued using
inputs such as trading multiples of comparable public securities, merger and acquisition activity and pricing data from the most recent equity financing taking into consideration illiquidity, and thus are classified within Level 3.   
  Hedge fund investments include those seeking to maximize absolute returns using a broad range of strategies to enhance returns and
provide additional diversification. The fair values of hedge funds are estimated using net asset value per share (NAV) of the investments. Verizon has the ability to redeem these investments at NAV within the near term and thus are classified within
Level 2. Investments that cannot be redeemed in the near term are classified within Level 3.       Cash Flows    
  In 2012, we contributed $0.9 billion to our qualified pension plans, $0.2 billion to our nonqualified pension plans and $1.5 billion to
our other postretirement benefit plans, exclusive of the annuitization discussed below. We expect the qualified pension plan contributions in 2013 to be immaterial. We anticipate approximately $0.1 billion in contributions to our non-qualified
pension plans and $1.5 billion to our other postretirement benefit plans in 2013.   

Estimated Future Benefit Payments       The benefit payments to retirees are expected to be paid as follows:       
     Savings Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plans    
  We maintain four leveraged employee stock ownership plans (ESOP). Only one plan currently has unallocated shares. We match a certain
percentage of eligible employee contributions to the savings plans with shares of our common stock from this ESOP. At December 31, 2012, the number of unallocated and allocated shares of common stock in this ESOP was 711,000 and
64 million, respectively. All leveraged ESOP shares are included in earnings per share computations.      Total savings plan costs were $0.7
billion in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.       Pension Annuitization    
  On October 17, 2012, we, along with our subsidiary Verizon Investment Management Corp., and Fiduciary Counselors Inc., as independent
fiduciary of the Verizon Management Pension Plan (the Plan), entered into a definitive purchase agreement with The Prudential Insurance Company of America (Prudential) and Prudential Financial, Inc., pursuant to which the Plan would purchase a
single premium group annuity contract from Prudential.      On December 10, 2012, upon issuance of the group annuity contract
by Prudential, Prudential irrevocably assumed the obligation to make future annuity payments to approximately 41,000 Verizon management retirees who began receiving pension payments from the Plan prior to January 1, 2010. The amount of each
retiree s annuity payment equals the amount of such individual s pension benefit. In addition, the group annuity contract is intended to replicate the same rights to future payments, such as survivor benefits, that are currently offered by
the Plan.      We contributed approximately $2.6 billion to the Plan between September 1, 2012 and December 31, 2012 in
connection with the transaction so that the Plan s funding percentage would not decrease as a result of the transaction.       Severance
Benefits       The following table provides an analysis of our actuarially determined severance liability recorded in accordance
with the accounting standard regarding employers  accounting for postemployment benefits:       
     Severance, Pension and Benefit Charges       During 2012, we recorded net pre-tax severance, pension and benefits charges of approximately $7.2 billion primarily for our pension and postretirement plans in accordance with our accounting policy to
recognize actuarial gains and losses in the year in which they occur. The charges   

were primarily driven by a decrease in our discount rate assumption used to determine the current year liabilities from a weighted-average of 5% at December 31, 2011 to a weighted-average of
4.2% at December 31, 2012 ($5.3 billion) and revisions to the retirement assumptions for participants and other assumption adjustments, partially offset by the difference between our estimated return on assets of 7.5% and our actual return on
assets of 10% ($0.7 billion). As part of this charge, we also recorded $1.0 billion related to the annuitization of pension liabilities, as described above, as well as severance charges of $0.4 billion primarily for approximately 4,000 management
employees.      During 2011, we recorded net pre-tax severance, pension and benefits charges of approximately $6.0 billion for our
pension and postretirement plans in accordance with our accounting policy to recognize actuarial gains and losses in the year in which they occur. The charges were primarily driven by a decrease in our discount rate assumption used to determine the
current year liabilities from 5.75% at December 31, 2010 to 5% at December 31, 2011 ($5.0 billion); the difference between our estimated return on assets of 8% and our actual return on assets of 5% ($0.9 billion); and revisions to the life
expectancy of participants and other adjustments to assumptions.      During 2010, we recorded net pre-tax severance, pension and
benefits charges of $3.1 billion. The charges during 2010 included remeasurement losses of $0.6 billion, for our pension and postretirement plans in accordance with our accounting policy to recognize actuarial gains and losses in the year in which
they occur. Additionally, in 2010, we reached an agreement with certain unions on temporary enhancements to the separation programs contained in their existing collective bargaining agreements. These temporary enhancements were intended to help
address a previously declared surplus of employees and to help reduce the need for layoffs. Accordingly, we recorded severance, pension and benefits charges associated with approximately 11,900 union-represented employees who volunteered for the
incentive offer. These charges included $1.2 billion for severance for the 2010 separation programs mentioned above and a planned workforce reduction of approximately 2,500 employees in 2011. In addition, we recorded $1.3 billion for pension and
postretirement curtailment losses and special termination benefits due to the workforce reductions.   
    
      Note 12

Taxes     
    The components of income before provision for income taxes are as follows:   

The components of the provision (benefit) for income taxes are as follows:   
   
    The following table shows the principal reasons for the difference between the effective income tax rate
and the statutory federal income tax rate:       
    The effective income tax rate for 2012 was (6.7)% compared to 2.7% for 2011. The negative effective
income tax rate for 2012 and the decrease in the provision for income taxes during 2012 compared to 2011 was primarily due to lower income before income taxes as a result of higher severance, pension, and benefit charges as well as early debt
redemption costs recorded in the current year.      The effective income tax rate in 2011 decreased to 2.7% from 19.4% in 2010.
This decrease was primarily driven by lower income before provision for income taxes as a result of higher pension and benefit charges recorded in 2011 as well as tax benefits from state valuation allowance reversals in 2011. The decrease was also
due to a one-time, non-cash income tax charge of $1.0 billion recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2010 as a result of the enactment of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation
Act of 2010, both of which became law in March 2010 (collectively the Health Care Act). Under the Health Care Act, beginning in 2013, Verizon and other companies that receive a subsidy under Medicare Part D to provide retiree prescription drug
coverage will no longer receive a federal income tax deduction for the expenses incurred in connection with providing the subsidized coverage to the extent of the subsidy received. Because future anticipated retiree prescription drug plan
liabilities and related subsidies are already reflected in Verizon s financial statements, this change in law required Verizon to reduce the value of the related tax benefits recognized in its financial statements in the period during which the
Health Care Act was enacted.   

The amounts of cash taxes paid are as follows:   
   
    Deferred taxes arise because of differences in the book and tax bases of certain assets and liabilities.
Significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:       
    At December 31, 2012, undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries indefinitely invested
outside of the United States amounted to approximately $1.8 billion. The majority of Verizon s cash flow is generated from domestic operations and we are not dependent on foreign cash or earnings to meet our funding requirements, nor do we
intend to repatriate these undistributed foreign earnings to fund U.S. operations. Furthermore, a portion of these undistributed earnings represents amounts that legally must be kept in reserve in accordance with certain foreign jurisdictional
requirements and are unavailable for distribution or repatriation. As a result, we have not provided U.S. deferred taxes on these undistributed earnings because we intend that they will remain indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States and
therefore unavailable for use in funding U.S. operations. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred taxes related to these undistributed earnings is not practicable.   
  At December 31, 2012, we had net after tax loss and credit carry forwards for income tax purposes of approximately $4.6 billion. Of
these net after tax loss and credit carry forwards, approximately $4.0 billion will expire between 2013 and 2032 and approximately $0.6 billion may be carried forward indefinitely. The amount of net after tax loss and credit carry forwards reflected
as a deferred tax asset above has been reduced by approximately $0.1 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, due to federal and state tax law limitations on utilization of net operating losses.   
  During 2012, the valuation allowance decreased approximately $0.3 billion. The balance of the valuation allowance at
December 31, 2012 and the 2012 activity is primarily related to state and foreign tax losses and credit carry forwards.   

Unrecognized Tax Benefits       A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balance of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:       
    Included in the total unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 is $2.1 billion,
$2.2 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively, that if recognized, would favorably affect the effective income tax rate.      We recognized the
following net after tax benefits related to interest and penalties in the provision for income taxes:       
    The after-tax accruals for the payment of interest and penalties in the consolidated balance sheets are as follows:
      
    Verizon and/or its subsidiaries file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, and various
state, local and foreign jurisdictions. As a large taxpayer, we are under audit by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and multiple state and foreign jurisdictions for various open tax years. The IRS commenced its examination of the Company s
U.S. income tax returns for tax years 2007-2009 in the third quarter of 2012. Significant tax examinations are ongoing in Italy and New York City for tax years as early as 2000. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits will change in the next twelve
months due to the resolution of various income tax matters, including the resolution of tax litigation in Canada in the first quarter of 2013. An estimate of the range of the possible change cannot be made until these tax matters are further
developed or resolved. The impacts of the favorable resolution of the Canada litigation will be accounted for in the first quarter of 2013.   

Note 13     

Segment Information    
     Reportable Segments       We have two reportable segments, which we operate and manage as strategic business units and organize by products and services. We measure and evaluate our reportable segments based on segment operating
income, consistent with the chief operating decision maker s assessment of segment performance.      Corporate, eliminations
and other includes unallocated corporate expenses, intersegment eliminations recorded in consolidation, the results of other businesses, such as our investments in unconsolidated businesses, pension and other employee benefit related costs, lease
financing, as well as the historical results of divested operations and other adjustments and gains and losses that are not allocated in assessing segment performance due to their non-operational nature. Although such transactions are excluded from
the business segment results, they are included in reported consolidated earnings. Gains and losses that are not individually significant are included in all segment results as these items are included in the chief operating decision maker s
assessment of segment performance.      The reconciliation of segment operating revenues and expenses to consolidated operating
revenues and expenses below also includes those items of a non-recurring or non-operational nature. We exclude from segment results the effects of certain items that management does not consider in assessing segment performance, primarily because of
their non-recurring or non-operational nature.      In order to comply with regulatory conditions related to the acquisition of
Alltel in January 2009, Verizon Wireless divested overlapping properties in 105 operating markets in 24 states during the first half of 2010. In addition, on July 1, 2010, certain of Verizon s local exchange business and related activities
in 14 states were spun off (see Note 2). Accordingly, the historical Verizon Wireless and Wireline results for these operations have been reclassified to Corporate and Other to reflect comparable segment operating results.   
  We have adjusted prior-period consolidated and segment information, where applicable, to conform to current year presentation.
     Our segments and their principal activities consist of the following:   

Segment   
      
   Description    

Verizon Wireless    
      
    Verizon Wireless  communications products and services include wireless voice and data services and equipment sales, which are provided to consumer,
business and government customers across the United States.    

Wireline    
      
    Wireline s voice, data and video communications products and enhanced services include local and long distance voice, broadband Internet access and
video, corporate networking solutions, data center and cloud services and security and managed network services. We provide these products and services to consumers in the United States, as well as to carriers, businesses and government customers
both in the United States and in over 150 other countries around the world.    

The following table provides operating financial information for our two reportable segments:   

Reconciliation to Consolidated Financial Information    
  A reconciliation of the segment operating revenues to consolidated operating revenues is as follows:   

A reconciliation of the total of the reportable segments  operating income to
consolidated Income before provision for income taxes is as follows:       
    A reconciliation of the total of the reportable
segments  assets to consolidated assets is as follows:       
    We generally account for intersegment sales of products and services and asset transfers at current
market prices. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our total operating revenues during the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. International operating revenues and long-lived assets are not significant.   
    
      Note 14

Comprehensive Income     
    Comprehensive income consists of net income and other gains and losses affecting equity that, under GAAP,
are excluded from net income. Significant changes in the components of Other comprehensive income, net of provision for income taxes are described below.       Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments       The change in Foreign currency
translation adjustments during 2012, 2011 and 2010 was primarily related to our investment in Vodafone Omnitel N.V. and was primarily driven by the movements of the U.S. dollar against the Euro.   

Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Cash Flow Hedges    
  During 2012, 2011 and 2010, Unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges included in Other comprehensive income attributable to
noncontrolling interest, primarily reflect activity related to a cross currency swap (see Note 9). Reclassification adjustments for gains (losses) realized in net income were not significant.       Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Marketable Securities       During 2012, 2011
and 2010, reclassification adjustments on marketable securities for gains (losses) realized in net income were not significant.       Defined
Benefit Pension and Postretirement Plans       The change in Defined benefit pension and postretirement plans of $0.9 billion,
net of taxes of $0.6 billion at December 31, 2012 was primarily a result of plan amendments.      The change in Defined
benefit pension and postretirement plans of $0.3 billion, net of taxes of $0.2 billion at December 31, 2011 was primarily a result of plan amendments.       Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income       The components of Accumulated other
comprehensive income were as follows:       
      
      Note 15

Additional Financial
Information     
    The tables that follow provide additional financial information related to our consolidated financial statements:
      Income Statement Information    

Balance Sheet Information    
     Cash Flow Information    
    Common stock has been used from time to time to satisfy some of the funding requirements of employee and
shareowner plans, including 24.6 million common shares issued from Treasury stock during 2012, related to dividend payments, which had an aggregate value of $1.0 billion.   
    
      Note 16

Commitments and Contingencies     
    In the ordinary course of business Verizon is involved in various commercial litigation and regulatory
proceedings at the state and federal level. Where it is determined, in consultation with counsel based on litigation and settlement risks, that a loss is probable and estimable in a given matter, the Company establishes an accrual. In none of the
currently pending matters is the amount of accrual material. An estimate of the reasonably possible loss or range of loss in excess of the amounts already accrued cannot be made at this time due to various factors typical in contested
proceedings, including (1) uncertain damage theories and demands; (2) a less than complete factual record; (3) uncertainty concerning legal theories and their resolution by courts or regulators; and (4) the unpredictable
nature of the opposing party and its demands. We continuously monitor these proceedings as they develop and adjust any accrual or disclosure as needed. We do not expect that the ultimate resolution of any pending regulatory or legal matter in future
periods, including the Hicksville matter described below, will have a material effect on our financial condition, but it could have a material effect on our results of operations for a given reporting period.   
  During 2003, under a government-approved plan, remediation commenced at the site of a former Sylvania facility in Hicksville, New York
that processed nuclear fuel rods in the 1950s and 1960s. Remediation beyond original expectations proved to be necessary and a reassessment of the anticipated remediation costs was conducted. A reassessment of costs related to remediation efforts at
several other former facilities was also undertaken. In September 2005, the Army Corps of Engineers (ACE) accepted the Hicksville site into the Formerly Utilized Sites Remedial Action Program. This may result in the ACE performing some or all of the
remediation effort for the Hicksville site with a corresponding decrease in costs to Verizon. To the extent that the ACE assumes responsibility for remedial work at the Hicksville site, an adjustment to a reserve previously established for the
remediation may be made. Adjustments to the reserve may also be made based upon actual conditions discovered during the remediation at this or any other site requiring remediation.   
  Verizon is currently involved in approximately 50 federal district court actions alleging that Verizon is infringing various patents.
Most of these cases are brought by non-practicing entities and effectively seek only monetary damages; a small number are brought by companies that sell products and seek injunctive relief as well. These cases have progressed to various degrees and
a small number may go to trial in the coming 12 months if they are not otherwise resolved. In the third quarter of 2012, we settled a number of patent litigation matters, including cases with ActiveVideo Networks Inc. (ActiveVideo) and TiVo Inc.
(TiVo). In connection with the settlements with ActiveVideo and TiVo, we recorded a charge of $0.4 billion in the third quarter of 2012 and will pay and recognize over the next six years an additional $0.2 billion.   

In connection with the execution of agreements for the sales of businesses and investments,
Verizon ordinarily provides representations and warranties to the purchasers pertaining to a variety of nonfinancial matters, such as ownership of the securities being sold, as well as indemnity from certain financial losses. From time to time,
counterparties may make claims under these provisions, and Verizon will seek to defend against those claims and resolve them in the ordinary course of business.      Subsequent to the sale of Verizon Information Services Canada in 2004, we continue to provide a guarantee to publish directories, which was issued when the directory business was purchased in 2001 and had
a 30-year term (before extensions). The preexisting guarantee continues, without modification, despite the subsequent sale of Verizon Information Services Canada and the spin-off of our domestic print and Internet yellow pages directories business.
The possible financial impact of the guarantee, which is not expected to be adverse, cannot be reasonably estimated as a variety of the potential outcomes available under the guarantee result in costs and revenues or benefits that may offset each
other. We do not believe performance under the guarantee is likely.      As of December 31, 2012, letters of credit totaling
approximately $0.1 billion, which were executed in the normal course of business and support several financing arrangements and payment obligations to third parties, were outstanding.   
  We have several commitments primarily to purchase handsets and peripherals, equipment, software, programming and network services, and
marketing activities, which will be used or sold in the ordinary course of business, from a variety of suppliers totaling $41.8 billion. Of this total amount, $29.6 billion is attributable to 2013, $7.5 billion is attributable to 2014 through 2015,
$4.2 billion is attributable to 2016 through 2017 and $0.5 billion is attributable to years thereafter. These amounts do not represent our entire anticipated purchases in the future, but represent only those items that are the subject of contractual
obligations. Our commitments are generally determined based on the noncancelable quantities or termination amounts. Purchases against our commitments for 2012 totaled approximately $16 billion. Since the commitments to purchase programming
services from television networks and broadcast stations have no minimum volume requirement, we estimated our obligation based on number of subscribers at December 31, 2012, and applicable rates stipulated in the contracts in effect at that
time. We also purchase products and services as needed with no firm commitment.   
    
      Note 17     

Quarterly Financial Information
(Unaudited)     

Results of operations for the third quarter of 2012 include after-tax charges attributable to Verizon of $0.2 billion related to legal settlements.

Results of operations for the fourth quarter of 2012 include after-tax charges attributable to Verizon of $5.3 billion related to severance, pension
and benefit charges and early debt redemption and other costs.          

Results of operations for the third quarter of 2011 include after-tax charges attributable to Verizon of $0.2 billion related to severance, pension
and benefit charges.          

Results of operations for the fourth quarter of 2011 include after-tax charges attributable to Verizon of $3.5 billion related to severance, pension
and benefit charges and costs related to the early redemption of debt.          

(1)      
    Net income (loss) attributable to Verizon per common share is computed independently for each quarter and the sum of the quarters may not equal the
annual amount.      

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 4
 d441535dex21.htm
 EX-21

EX-21 

EXHIBIT 21        Verizon Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries       Principal Subsidiaries of
Registrant at December 31, 2012       

Name          

Jurisdiction of Organization   

Verizon California Inc.   

California    

Verizon Delaware LLC.   

Delaware    

Verizon Florida LLC.   

Florida    

Verizon Maryland LLC.   

Delaware    

Verizon New England Inc.   

New York    

Verizon New Jersey Inc.   

New Jersey    

Verizon New York Inc.   

New York    

Verizon Pennsylvania LLC.   

Delaware    

GTE Southwest Incorporated         (d/b/a Verizon Southwest)   

Delaware    

Verizon Virginia Inc.   

Virginia    

Bell Atlantic Mobile Systems LLC.   

Delaware    

Cellco Partnership         (d/b/a Verizon Wireless)   

Delaware    

GTE Corporation   

New York    

GTE Wireless Incorporated   

Delaware    

MCI Communications Corporation  

Delaware    

Verizon Business Global LLC.   

Delaware    

Cranberry Properties LLC.   

Delaware    

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 d441535dex23.htm
 EX-23

EX-23 

EXHIBIT 23       Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm      We consent to the
incorporation by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon) of our reports dated February 26, 2013, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Verizon and the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting of Verizon, included in the 2012 Annual Report to Shareowners of Verizon.      Our audits also
included the financial statement schedule of Verizon listed in Item 15(a). This schedule is the responsibility of Verizon s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, as to which the date
is February 26, 2013, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.   
  We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the following registration statements of Verizon and where applicable, related
Prospectuses, of our reports dated February 26, 2013, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Verizon and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Verizon, incorporated herein by reference, and our
report included in the preceding paragraph with respect to the financial statement schedule of Verizon included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended December 31, 2012: Form S-4, No. 333-11573; Form S-8, No. 333-41593;
Form S-8, No. 333-50146; Form S-4, No. 333-76171; Form S-8, No. 333-76171; Form S-8, No. 333-53830; Form S-8, No. 333-82690; Form S-4, No. 333-124008; Form S-8, No. 333-124008; Form S-4, No. 333-132651; Form
S-8, No. 333-169267; Form S-8, No. 333-172501; Form S-8, No. 333-172999; Form S-3, No. 333-179402 and Form S-3, No. 333-182749.       

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 d441535dex311.htm
 EX-31.1

EX-31.1 

EXHIBIT 31.1       I, Lowell C. McAdam, certify that:       

1.  
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Verizon Communications Inc.;      

2.  
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      

3.  
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;          

4.  
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      

(a)  
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;      

(b)  
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

(c)  
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and          

(d)  
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s
most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and      

5.  
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):      

(a)  
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and          

(b)  
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting.          

Date: February 26, 2013   

/s/    Lowell C. McAdam    

Lowell C. McAdam    

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer    

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 d441535dex312.htm
 EX-31.2

EX-31.2 

EXHIBIT 31.2       I, Francis J. Shammo, certify that:       

1.  
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Verizon Communications Inc.;      

2.  
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      

3.  
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;          

4.  
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      

(a)  
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;      

(b)  
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

(c)  
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and          

(d)  
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s
most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and      

5.  
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):      

(a)  
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and          

(b)  
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting.          

Date: February 26, 2013   

/s/    Francis J. Shammo    

Francis J. Shammo    

Executive Vice President  
              and Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 d441535dex321.htm
 EX-32.1

EX-32.1 

EXHIBIT 32.1       CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002, PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350 OF CHAPTER 63 OF TITLE 18 OF THE UNITED STATES CODE   
  I, Lowell C. McAdam, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Verizon Communications Inc. (the Company), certify that:   

(1)  
    the report of the Company on Form 10-K for the annual period ending December 31, 2012 (the Report) fully complies with the requirements of
section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act); and          

(2)  
    the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company
as of the dates and for the periods referred to in the Report.          

Date: February 26, 2013  
     
  /s/    Lowell C. McAdam   

Lowell C. McAdam    

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer    
    A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906, or other document
authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement required by Section 906, has been provided to Verizon Communications Inc. and will be retained
by Verizon Communications Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 9
 d441535dex322.htm
 EX-32.2

EX-32.2 

EXHIBIT 32.2       CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002, PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350 OF CHAPTER 63 OF TITLE 18 OF THE UNITED STATES CODE   
  I, Francis J. Shammo, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Verizon Communications Inc. (the Company), certify that:

(1)  
    the report of the Company on Form 10-K for the annual period ending December 31, 2012 (the Report) fully complies with the requirements of
section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act); and          

(2)  
    the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company
as of the dates and for the periods referred to in the Report.          

Date: February 26, 2013  
     
  /s/    Francis J. Shammo   

Francis J. Shammo    

Executive Vice President  
              and Chief Financial Officer    
    A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906, or other document
authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement required by Section 906, has been provided to Verizon Communications Inc. and will be retained
by Verizon Communications Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 10
 vz-20121231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 11
 vz-20121231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 12
 vz-20121231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 13
 vz-20121231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 14
 vz-20121231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 15
 vz-20121231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

