<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20150224_10-K_edgar_data_1091667_0001091667-15-000049_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>34623435</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>609534</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>10735372</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>9718164</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>9518962</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>3562265</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>82</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>15</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001091667-15-000049.hdr.sgml : 20150224
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20150223191345
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001091667-15-000049
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		19
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20141231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20150224
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20150223

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. /MO/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001091667
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES [4841]
		IRS NUMBER:				431857213
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-33664
		FILM NUMBER:		15641424

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		12405 POWERSCOURT DRIVE
		CITY:			ST. LOUIS
		STATE:			MO
		ZIP:			63131
		BUSINESS PHONE:		314-965-0555

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		12405 POWERSCOURT DRIVE
		CITY:			ST. LOUIS
		STATE:			MO
		ZIP:			63131

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS INC /MO/
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19990723

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001091667-15-000049.txt : 20150224

10-K
 1
 chtr123114-10k.htm
 10-K

CHTR 12.31.14 - 10K 

UNITED STATES  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION    
  Washington, D.C. 20549    
  ______________ 
  FORM 10-K    
  ______________ 

For the Transition Period From             to               Commission File Number: 001-33664 
     
  Charter Communications, Inc.    
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)    

Securities registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the Act: 
                   Title of each class 
      
    Name of Exchange which registered 
      Class A Common Stock, $.001 Par Value 
      
    NASDAQ Global Select Market 

Securities registered pursuant to section 12(g) of the Act:  None    
    
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes   x   No   o    
    
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes   o   No   x 
    
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes   x   No   o    
    
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrants have submitted electronically and posted on their corporate website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrants were required to submit and post such files). Yes   x   No   o 
    
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (  229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.   o 
    
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definition of  accelerated filer,   large accelerated filer,  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): 
    
  Large accelerated filer   x      Accelerated filer   o      Non-accelerated filer   o      Smaller reporting company   o 
    
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes   o   No   x    
    
  The aggregate market value of the registrant of outstanding Class A common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant at   June 30, 2014   was approximately   $12.3 billion  , computed based on the closing sale price as quoted on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on that date.  For purposes of this calculation only, directors, executive officers and the principal controlling shareholders or entities controlled by such controlling shareholders of the registrant are deemed to be affiliates of the registrant.  
    
  There were   111,999,687   shares of Class A common stock outstanding as of   December 31, 2014  .  There were no shares of Class B common stock outstanding as of the same date.  
    
  Documents Incorporated By Reference 
    
  Information required by Part III is incorporated by reference from Registrant s proxy statement or an amendment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K to be filed by April 30, 2015. 

CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC.  FORM 10-K   FOR THE YEAR ENDED   DECEMBER 31, 2014    
    
  TABLE OF CONTENTS    

Page No. 
       PART I  

Item 1  
      
     Business  
      
     1 
       Item 1A  
      
     Risk Factors  
      
     18 
       Item 1B  
      
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
      
     34 
       Item 2  
      
     Properties  
      
     34 
       Item 3  
      
     Legal Proceedings  
      
     34 
       Item 4  
      
     Mine Safety Disclosures  
      
     35 

PART II  

Item 5  
      
     Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
      
     36 
       Item 6  
      
     Selected Financial Data  
      
     39 
       Item 7  
      
     Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
      
     39 
       Item 7A  
      
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
      
     63 
       Item 8  
      
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
      
     64 
       Item 9  
      
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
      
     64 
       Item 9A  
      
     Controls and Procedures  
      
     64 
       Item 9B  
      
     Other Information  
      
     64 

PART III  

Item 10  
      
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
      
     65 
       Item 11  
      
     Executive Compensation  
      
     65 
       Item 12  
      
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
      
     65 
       Item 13  
      
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
      
     65 
       Item 14  
      
     Principal Accounting Fees and Services  
      
     65 

PART IV  

Item 15  
      
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  
      
     66 

Signatures  
      
    S- 1 

Exhibit Index  
      
    E- 1 

This annual report on Form 10-K is for the year ended   December 31, 2014  .  The Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) allows us to  incorporate by reference  information that we file with the SEC, which means that we can disclose important information to you by referring you directly to those documents.  Information incorporated by reference is considered to be part of this annual report.  In addition, information that we file with the SEC in the future will automatically update and supersede information contained in this annual report.  In this annual report,  we,   us  and  our  refer to Charter Communications, Inc. and its subsidiaries.  

i 

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS:    
    
  This annual report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the  Securities Act ), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), regarding, among other things, our plans, strategies and prospects, both business and financial including, without limitation, the forward-looking statements set forth in Part I. Item 1. under the heading "Business" and in Part II. Item 7. under the heading  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in this annual report.  Although we believe that our plans, intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that we will achieve or realize these plans, intentions or expectations.  Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, without limitation, the factors described in Part I. Item 1A. under  Risk Factors  and in Part II. Item 7. under the heading,  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in this annual report.  Many of the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report may be identified by the use of forward looking words such as  believe,   expect,   anticipate,   should,   planned,   will,   may,   intend,   estimated,   aim,   on track,   target,   opportunity,   tentative,   positioning,   designed,   create,   predict,   project,   seek,   would,   could,   continue,   ongoing,   upside,   increases  and  potential,  among others.  Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements we make in this annual report are set forth in this annual report and in other reports or documents that we file from time to time with the SEC, and include, but are not limited to:  
    
  Risks Related to Comcast Corporation ("Comcast") Transactions    

the ultimate outcome of the proposed transactions between us and Comcast including the possibility that such transactions may not occur if closing conditions are not satisfied; 

if any such transactions were to occur, the ultimate outcome and results of integrating operations and application of our operating strategies to the acquired assets and the ultimate ability to realize synergies at the levels currently expected as well as potential programming dis-synergies; 

the impact of the proposed transactions on our stock price and future operating results, including due to transaction and integration costs, increased interest expense, business disruption, and diversion of management time and attention; 

the reduction in our current stockholders  percentage ownership and voting interest as a result of the proposed transactions; 

the increase in indebtedness as a result of the proposed transactions, which will increase interest expense and may decrease our operating flexibility; 
       
  Risks Related to Our Business    

our ability to sustain and grow revenues and cash flow from operations by offering video, Internet, voice, advertising and other services to residential and commercial customers, to adequately meet the customer experience demands in our markets and to maintain and grow our customer base, particularly in the face of increasingly aggressive competition, the need for innovation and the related capital expenditures;  

the impact of competition from other market participants, including but not limited to incumbent telephone companies, direct broadcast satellite operators, wireless broadband and telephone providers, digital subscriber line ( DSL ) providers, video provided over the Internet and providers of advertising over the Internet;  

general business conditions, economic uncertainty or downturn, high unemployment levels and the level of activity in the housing sector;  

our ability to obtain programming at reasonable prices or to raise prices to offset, in whole or in part, the effects of higher programming costs (including retransmission consents);  

the development and deployment of new products and technologies including our cloud based user interface, Spectrum Guide       , and downloadable security for set-top boxes;  

the effects of governmental regulation on our business or potential business combination transactions;  

ii 

the availability and access, in general, of funds to meet our debt obligations prior to or when they become due and to fund our operations and necessary capital expenditures, either through (i) cash on hand, (ii) free cash flow, or (iii) access to the capital or credit markets; and   

our ability to comply with all covenants in our indentures and credit facilities, any violation of which, if not cured in a timely manner, could trigger a default of our other obligations under cross-default provisions. 
       
  All forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement.  We are under no duty or obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this annual report. 
      
  iii 

PART I 
    
    Item 1.    Business.    
    
  Introduction    
    
  We are among the largest providers of cable services in the United States, offering a variety of entertainment, information and communications solutions to residential and commercial customers.  Our infrastructure consists of a hybrid of fiber and coaxial cable plant with approximately   12.9 million   estimated passings, with   97%   at 550 megahertz ( MHz ) or greater,   98%   of plant miles two-way active and 99% of plant all-digital. A national Internet Protocol ("IP") infrastructure interconnects Charter Communications, Inc. ( Charter ) markets. See "Item 1. Business   Products and Services" for further description of these terms and services, including "customers."  
    
  As of   December 31, 2014  , we served approximately   6.2 million   residential and commercial customers. We sell our video, Internet and voice services primarily on a subscription basis, often in a bundle of two or more services, providing savings and convenience to our customers. Bundled services are available to approximately   98%   of our passings, and approximately   62%   of our customers subscribe to a bundle of services. 
    
  We served approximately   4.2 million   residential video customers as of   December 31, 2014  . We completed our all-digital rollout in 2014 and substantially all of our markets now offer over 200 HD channels and faster Internet speeds.  We have launched the Charter Spectrum  brand in our all-digital markets.  Digital video enables our customers to access advanced video services such as high definition ("HD") television, video on demand programming, an interactive program guide and digital video recorder ( DVR ) service.     
    
  We also served approximately   4.8 million   residential Internet customers as of   December 31, 2014  . Our Internet service is available in a variety of download speeds of up to 100 megabits per second ( Mbps ), and up to 120 Mbps in certain markets, and upload speeds of up to 5 Mbps.  Approximately 80% of our Internet customers have at least 60 Mbps download speed.   
    
  We provided voice service to approximately   2.4 million   residential customers as of   December 31, 2014  . Our voice services typically include unlimited local and long distance calling to the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico, plus other features, including voicemail, call waiting and caller ID. 
    
  Through Charter Business       , we provide scalable, tailored broadband communications solutions to business and carrier organizations, such as video entertainment services, Internet access, business telephone services, data networking and fiber connectivity to cellular towers and office buildings.  As of   December 31, 2014  , we served approximately   619,000   commercial primary service units, primarily small- and medium-sized commercial customers. Our advertising sales division, Charter Media , provides local, regional and national businesses with the opportunity to advertise in individual markets on cable television networks. 
    
  For the year ended   December 31, 2014  , we generated approximately   $9.1 billion   in revenue, of which approximately   83%   was generated from our residential video, Internet and voice services. We also generated revenue from providing video, Internet, voice and fiber connectivity services to commercial businesses and from the sale of advertising.  Sales from residential triple play customers (customers receiving all three service offerings, video, Internet and voice) and from commercial services have contributed to the majority of our recent revenue growth. 
    
  We have a history of net losses.  Our net losses are principally attributable to insufficient revenue to cover the combination of operating expenses, interest expenses that we incur on our debt, depreciation expenses resulting from the capital investments we have made, and continue to make, in our cable properties, amortization expenses related to our customer relationship intangibles and non-cash taxes resulting from increases in our deferred tax liabilities. 
    
  Our principal executive offices are located at 400 Atlantic Street, Stamford, Connecticut 06901.  Our telephone number is (203) 905-7801, and we have a website accessible at www.charter.com.  Our annual reports, quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments thereto, are available on our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed.  The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this annual report.  
    
  Transactions with Comcast 
  On April 25, 2014, we entered into a binding definitive agreement (the  Transactions Agreement ) with Comcast Corporation ( Comcast ), which contemplates the following transactions: (1) an asset purchase, (2) an asset exchange and (3) a contribution  
      
   1 

and spin-off transaction (collectively, the  Transactions ) as described in more detail below.  The Transactions Agreement calls for the Transactions to be consummated substantially contemporaneously with each other as promptly as practicable following the merger of a subsidiary of Comcast with Time Warner Cable Inc. ( TWC ) as previously announced by Comcast and TWC.  The completion of the Transactions will result in Charter acquiring approximately a net 1.3 million existing TWC residential and commercial video customers.  
  Asset Purchase 
    
  At closing, the Transactions Agreement calls for Charter to acquire from Comcast certain cable systems currently owned by TWC serving approximately 1.4 million video customers and all other assets and liabilities primarily related to such cable systems for cash consideration (the "Asset Purchase").  The Transactions Agreement calls for Charter to pay to Comcast the tax benefit of the step-up Charter receives in the tax basis of the assets.  The Transactions Agreement calls for such tax benefit to Charter to be paid as realized by us over an eight-year period, with an additional payment to be made at the end of such eight-year period in the amount of any remaining tax benefit (on a present value basis) not previously realized by Charter. 
  Asset Exchange 
  At closing, we and Comcast will exchange certain cable systems currently serving approximately 1.5 million TWC video customers and approximately 1.6 million Charter video customers and all other assets and liabilities primarily related to such cable systems (the "Asset Exchange").  Most tax gains associated with the Asset Exchange are expected to be offset by Charter s existing net operating losses. 
    
  Financing 
    
  Charter has received commitments from a number of leading Wall Street investment banks to provide incremental senior secured term loan facilities totaling up to $8.4 billion and a senior secured incremental revolving facility equal to $500 million under the Charter Communications Operating, LLC ("Charter Operating") credit facility.  Pursuant to that commitment, Charter has fully drawn on $3.5 billion term loan G commitments.  The amount of the commitments for incremental term loan facilities was further reduced by $3.5 billion at the closing of the offering of $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.50% senior notes due 2022 and $2.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.75% senior notes due 2024 (collectively, the "CCOH Safari Notes") by CCOH Safari, LLC ("CCOH Safari").  Charter has $1.4 billion remaining in committed Charter Operating term loans.  The proceeds from the term loan G and the CCOH Safari Notes are being held in escrow subject to the closing of the Transactions and are recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as noncurrent restricted cash and cash equivalents.  The escrow for the CCOH Safari Notes continues until November 5, 2015.  The escrow for term loan G continues so long as we pre-fund interest and the release conditions can be satisfied.  The consideration for the assets acquired and transaction expenses is currently estimated at approximately $7.2 billion.  The proceeds of the incremental facilities and the CCOH Safari Notes will be used by Charter for the purpose of financing the Asset Purchase, paying fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Asset Purchase and the other Transactions, for providing ongoing working capital and for other general corporate purposes of Charter Operating and its subsidiaries. 
    
  Contribution and Spin-Off Transaction 
    
  CCH I, LLC ( CCH I ), a current indirect subsidiary of Charter, will be reorganized to be a direct subsidiary of Charter.  CCH I will then form a new subsidiary that will merge with Charter, through a tax-free reorganization and become the new holding company ( New Charter ) that will own 100% of Charter and indirectly Charter Communications Holding Company, LLC ( Charter Holdco ) ("Charter Merger").  New Charter will then acquire an approximate 33% stake in a new publicly-traded cable provider to be spun-off by Comcast serving approximately 2.5 million existing Comcast video customers (the "Spin-Off"). The cable systems will be contributed to Midwest Cable, Inc., which upon consummation of the Transactions, is expected to change its name to GreatLand Connections Inc. ( GreatLand Connections ).  New Charter will acquire its interest in GreatLand Connections by issuing New Charter stock to Comcast shareholders (including former TWC shareholders) as a result of a merger of a wholly owned subsidiary of New Charter with and into GreatLand Connections.  Comcast shareholders, including the former TWC shareholders, are expected to own approximately 67% of GreatLand Connections, while New Charter is expected to directly own approximately 33% of GreatLand Connections. GreatLand Connections expects to incur leverage of approximately 5 times its estimated pro forma EBITDA (as such term is defined by GreatLand Connections  financing sources for purposes of the financing) to fund a distribution to Comcast and issue notes to Comcast prior to the spin-off.  Additionally, we will provide services to GreatLand Connections, and we will be reimbursed the actual economic costs of such services, in addition to a fee of 4.25% of GreatLand Connections' gross revenues. 
    
  The Asset Purchase, Asset Exchange and the acquisition of interests in GreatLand Connections will be valued at a 7.125 multiple of 2014 EBITDA (as defined by the parties), subject to certain post-closing adjustments. 
      
   2 

Corporate Entity Structure  
    
  The chart below sets forth our entity structure and that of our direct and indirect subsidiaries.  This chart does not include all of our affiliates and subsidiaries and, in some cases, we have combined separate entities for presentation purposes.  The equity ownership percentages shown below are approximations.  Indebtedness amounts shown below are principal amounts as of   December 31, 2014  .  See Note 8 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,  which also includes the accreted values of the indebtedness described below.  

3 

Charter Communications, Inc.   Charter owns 100% of Charter Holdco .  Charter Holdco, through its subsidiaries, owns cable systems.  As sole manager under applicable operating agreements, Charter controls the affairs of Charter Holdco and its limited liability company subsidiaries.  In addition, Charter provides management services to Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries under a management services agreement.  
    
  Interim Holding Companies.    As indicated in the organizational chart above, our interim holding companies indirectly own the subsidiaries that own or operate all of our cable systems, subject to a CC VIII, LLC ("CC VIII") 100% preferred interest held by CCH I, and four of these companies, CCO Holdings, LLC ("CCO Holdings"), CCOH Safari, Charter Operating and CCO Safari, LLC ("CCO Safari") had debt obligations as of   December 31, 2014  .  The amounts borrowed under CCO Safari's term loan G facility are not considered when calculating the leverage ratio on CCO Holdings' indentures as CCO Safari has been designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary under CCO Holdings' indentures.  For a description of the debt issued by these issuers please see  Part II. Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Description of Our Outstanding Debt.   
    
  Products and Services    
    
  Through our hybrid fiber and coaxial cable network, we offer our customers traditional cable video services, as well as advanced video services (such as video on demand, HD television, and DVR service), Internet services and voice services.  Our voice services are primarily provided using voice over Internet protocol ( VoIP ) technology, to transmit digital voice signals over our systems.  Our video, Internet, and voice services are offered to residential and commercial customers on a subscription basis, with prices and related charges based on the types of service selected, whether the services are sold as a  bundle  or on an individual basis, and the equipment necessary to receive the services.  
    
  The following table summarizes our customer statistics for video, Internet and voice as of   December 31, 2014   and   2013   (in thousands, except per customer data and footnotes).  

(a) 
    We calculate the aging of customer accounts based on the monthly billing cycle for each account.  On that basis, as of   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , customers include approximately   35,100   and   11,300   customers, respectively, whose accounts were over 60 days, approximately   1,500   and   800   customers, respectively, whose accounts were over 90 days, and approximately   900   and   900   customers, respectively, whose accounts were over 120 days.  The increase in aging of customer accounts over 60 days is primarily related to a third quarter change in our collections policy consistent with broader cable industry practices. 

4 

(b) 
     Video customers  represent those customers who subscribe to our video cable services.  Our methodology for reporting residential video customers generally excludes units under bulk arrangements, unless those units have a digital set-top box, thus a direct billing relationship. As we completed our all-digital transition, bulk units were supplied with digital set-top boxes adding to our bulk digital upgrade customers.  Full year 2014 and 2013 residential video net additions include   56,000   and   18,000  , respectively, bulk video units as a result of adding digital set-top boxes to bulk units. 
       
           (c) 
     Internet customers  represent those customers who subscribe to our Internet service.  
       
           (d) 
     Voice customers  represent those customers who subscribe to our voice service.   
       
           (e) 
     Primary Service Units  or  PSUs  represent the total of video, Internet and voice customers.   
       
           (f) 
    "Customer Relationships" include the number of customers that receive one or more levels of service, encompassing video, Internet and voice services, without regard to which service(s) such customers receive.  This statistic is computed in accordance with the guidelines of the National Cable   Telecommunications Association ("NCTA").  Commercial customer relationships include video customers in commercial structures, which are calculated on an EBU basis (see footnote (h)) and non-video commercial customer relationships. 
        
           (g) 
    "Monthly Residential Revenue per Residential Customer" is calculated as total residential video, Internet and voice quarterly revenue divided by three divided by average residential customer relationships during the respective quarter. 
       
           (h) 
    Included within commercial video customers are those in commercial structures, which are calculated on an equivalent bulk unit ( EBU ) basis.  We calculate EBUs by dividing the bulk price charged to accounts in an area by the published rate charged to non-bulk residential customers in that market for the comparable tier of service. This EBU method of estimating basic video customers is consistent with the methodology used in determining costs paid to programmers and is consistent with the methodology used by other multiple system operators.  As we increase our published video rates to residential customers without a corresponding increase in the prices charged to commercial service customers, our EBU count will decline even if there is no real loss in commercial service customers.  For example, commercial video customers decreased by 18,000 during the year ended December 31, 2014 due to a higher applicable video rate applied and other revisions to customer reporting methodology. 
       
  Video Services  
    
  In   2014  , residential video services represented approximately   49%   of our total revenues.  Our video service offerings include the following:  

Video.    All of our video customers receive a package of basic programming which generally consists of local broadcast television, local community programming, including governmental and public access, and limited satellite-delivered or non-broadcast channels, such as weather, shopping and religious programming along with a digital set-top box that provides an interactive electronic programming guide with parental controls, access to pay-per-view channels, including video on demand (available nearly everywhere), digital quality music channels and the option to also receive a cable card.  Customers have the option to purchase additional tiers of services including premium channels which provide original programming, commercial-free movies, sports, and other special event entertainment programming.  Although we offer subscriptions to premium channels on an individual basis, we also offer premium channels combined with our Internet and voice services.  Much of our programming is now offered through video on demand and increasingly over the Internet.   

Video On Demand, Subscription On Demand and Pay-Per-View  .   In most areas, we offer video on demand service which allows customers to select from 10,000 or more titles at any time.  Video on demand includes standard definition, HD and three dimensional ("3D") content.  Video on demand programming options may be accessed for free if the content is associated with the customer s linear subscription, or for a fee on a transactional basis.  Video on demand services may also be offered on a subscription basis included in a digital tier premium channel subscription or for a monthly fee.  Pay-per-view channels allow customers to pay on a per-event basis to view a single showing of a recently released movie, a one-time special sporting event, music concert, or similar event on a commercial-free basis. 

High Definition Television  .    HD television offers our digital customers certain video programming at a higher resolution to improve picture and audio quality versus standard basic or digital video images.  In 2014, we completed our transition to all-digital transmission of channels which allowed us to increase the number of HD channels offered to more than 200  
         
   5 

in substantially all of our markets.  We are also rolling out HD auto-tune in our markets which is a feature that ensures HD set-tops tune to the HD version of a channel even when the standard definition version is selected. 

Digital Video Recorder.   DVR service enables customers to digitally record programming and to pause and rewind live programming.    Charter customers may lease multiple DVR set-top boxes to maximize recording capacity on multiple televisions in the home.  Most of our customers also have the ability to program their DVR's remotely via tablet and phone applications or our website.   

Charter TV App.    The Charter TV App enables Charter video customers to search and discover content on a variety of customer owned devices, including the iPhone       , iPad       , and iPod Touch       , as well as the most popular Android        based tablets.  The Charter TV App allows customers to watch over 100 channels of cable TV and use the device as a remote to control their digital set-top box while in their home. It also allows customers the ability to browse Charter's program guide, search for programming, and schedule DVR recordings from inside and outside the home.  Charter's online offerings include many of our largest and most popular networks.  We also currently offer content already available online through Charter.net such as HBO Go        and WatchESPN        with other online content.  We are currently testing Spectrum Guide, a network based user interface with the same look and feel of the Charter TV App.  The user interface is being designed to work with all of our existing and future set-top boxes.  Spectrum Guide was launched in one market in 2014 and will be more widely deployed in 2015. 
       
  Internet Services 
    
  In   2014  , residential Internet services represented approximately   28%   of our total revenues.  Approximately   95%   of our estimated passings have DOCSIS 3.0 wideband technology, allowing us to offer our residential customers multiple tiers of Internet services with download speeds of up to 100 Mbps, and up to 120 Mbps in certain markets.  Our Internet services also include a new and improved Internet portal, Charter.net, making it easier for customers to manage their account, seek self-help and watch TV online.  Charter.net also provides multiple e-mail addresses, as well as variety of content and media from local, national and international providers including entertainment, games, news and sports.  Finally, Charter Security Suite is included with Charter Internet services and protects computers from viruses and spyware and provides parental control features.   
    
  Accelerated growth in the number of IP devices and bandwidth used in homes has created a need for faster speeds and greater reliability.  Charter is focused on providing services to fill those needs.  Charter offers an in-home WiFi product permitting customers to lease a high performing wireless router to maximize their wireless Internet experience.  Since going all-digital, our base Internet download speed offering is 60 Mbps, and 100 Mbps in certain markets.     
    
  Voice Services 
    
  In   2014  , residential voice services represented approximately   6%   of our total revenues.  We provide voice communications services primarily using VoIP technology to transmit digital voice signals over our network.  Charter Voice includes unlimited local and long distance calling to the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico, voicemail, call waiting, caller ID, call forwarding and other features and offers international calling either by the minute or through packages of minutes per month.  For Charter Voice and video customers, caller ID on TV is also available in most areas. 
    
  Commercial Services 
    
  In   2014  , commercial services represented approximately   11%   of our total revenues.  Commercial services offered through Charter Business, include scalable broadband communications solutions for businesses and carrier organizations of all sizes such as Internet access, data networking, fiber connectivity to cellular towers and office buildings, video entertainment services and business telephone services. 

Small Business.    Charter offers small businesses (1 - 19 employees) services similar to our residential offerings including a full range of video programming tiers and music services, coax Internet speeds of up to 100 Mbps downstream, 200 Mbps in certain markets, and up to 7 Mbps upstream in its DOCSIS 3.0 markets, a set of business cloud services including web hosting, e-mail and security, and multi-line telephone services with more than 30 business features including web-based service management. 

Medium Business  .     In addition to its other offerings, Charter also offers medium sized businesses (20-199 employees) more complex products such as fiber Internet with symmetrical speeds of up to 10 Gbps and voice trunking services such as Primary Rate Interface ("PRI") and Session Initiation Protocol ("SIP") Trunks which provide higher-capacity voice services.   Charter also offers Metro Ethernet service that connects two or more locations for commercial  
         
   6 

customers with geographically dispersed locations with services up to 10 Gbps.  Metro Ethernet service can also extend the reach of the customer's local area network ("LAN") within and between metropolitan areas. 

Large Business.    Charter offers large businesses (200+ employees) with multiple sites more specialized solutions such as custom fiber networks, Metro and long haul Ethernet, PRI and SIP Trunk services. 

Carrier Wholesale.    Charter offers high-capacity last-mile data connectivity services to wireless and wireline carriers, Internet Service Providers ("ISPs") and other competitive carriers on a wholesale basis.   
       
  Sale of Advertising 
    
  In   2014  , sales of advertising represented approximately   4%   of our total revenues.  We receive revenues from the sale of local advertising on satellite-delivered networks such as MTV       , CNN        and ESPN       .  In any particular market, we generally insert local advertising on approximately 40 channels.  In most cases, the available advertising time is sold by our sales force, however in some markets, we enter into representation agreements with contiguous cable system operators under which another operator in the area will sell advertising on our behalf for a percentage of the revenue.  In some markets, we sell advertising on behalf of other operators. 
    
  Charter has deployed Enhanced TV Binary Interchange Format ( EBIF ) technology to set-top boxes in most service areas within the Charter footprint.  EBIF is a technology foundation that will allow Charter to deliver enhanced and interactive television applications for advertising.  From time to time, certain of our vendors, including programmers and equipment vendors, have purchased advertising from us. 
    
  Pricing of Our Products and Services    
    
  Our revenues are derived principally from the monthly fees customers pay for the services we provide.  We typically charge a one-time installation fee which is sometimes waived or discounted during certain promotional periods.  The prices we charge for our products and services vary based on the level of service the customer chooses and in some cases the geographic market.  In accordance with Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") rules, the prices we charge for video cable-related equipment, such as set-top boxes and remote control devices, and for installation services, are based on actual costs plus a permitted rate of return in regulated markets.  
    
  In mid-2012, Charter launched a new pricing and packaging approach which emphasizes the triple play products of video, Internet and voice services and combines our most popular and competitive services in core packages at what we believe is a fair price.  We believe the benefits of this approach are: 

simplicity for both our customers in understanding our offers, and our employees in service delivery; 
                
    the ability to package more services at the time of sale and include more product in each service, thus increasing revenue per customer; 
                
    higher product offering quality through more HD channels, improved pricing for HD and HD/DVR equipment and faster Internet speeds;   
                
    lower expected churn as a result of higher customer satisfaction; and 
                
    gradual price increases at the end of promotional periods. 
       
  As of   December 31, 2014  , approximately 83% of our customers are in the new pricing and packaging plan, or 86% excluding those acquired in the acquisition of Bresnan Broadband Holdings, LLC and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Bresnan").  See  Part II. Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Overview.    
    
  Our Network Technology     and Customer Premise Equipment 
    
  Our network includes three components: the national backbone, regional/metro networks and the "last-mile" network.  Both our national backbone and regional/metro network components utilize or plan to utilize a redundant Internet Protocol ("IP ) ring/mesh architecture.  The national backbone provides connectivity from the regional demarcation points to nationally centralized content, connectivity and services.  The regional/metro network components provide connectivity between the regional demarcation points and headends within a specific geographic area and enable the delivery of content and services between these network components. 
    
  Our last-mile network utilizes a hybrid fiber coaxial cable ( HFC ) architecture, which combines the use of fiber optic cable with coaxial cable.  In most systems, we deliver our signals via fiber optic cable from the headend to a group of nodes, and use coaxial cable to deliver the signal from individual nodes to the homes served by that node. For our fiber Internet, Ethernet, carrier wholesale,  
      
   7 

SIP and PRI commercial customers, fiber optic cable is extended from the individual nodes all the way to the customer's site.  Our design standard is six strands of fiber to each node, with two strands activated and four strands reserved for spares and future services.  We believe that this hybrid network design provides high capacity and signal quality.  The design also provides two-way signal capabilities for the support of interactive services. 
    
  HFC architecture benefits include:  

bandwidth capacity to enable traditional and two-way video and broadband services; 
                
    dedicated bandwidth for two-way services; and 
                
    signal quality and high service reliability. 
       
  Approximately   97%   of our estimated passings are served by systems that have bandwidth of 550 megahertz or greater and   98%   are two-way activated as of   December 31, 2014  .  This bandwidth capacity enables us to offer digital television, Internet services, voice services and other advanced video services.   
    
  In 2014, we completed our transition from analog to digital transmission of the channels we distribute which allows us to recapture bandwidth.  The all-digital platform enables us to offer a larger selection of HD channels, faster Internet speeds and better picture quality while providing greater plant security and lower transaction costs. 
    
  In 2014, we launched, in one market, Spectrum Guide       , a network, or  cloud,  based user interface designed to enable our customers to enjoy a common user interface with a state-of-the-art video experience on all existing and future set-top boxes.  We plan to continue to deploy and enhance this technology in 2015. 
    
  For set-top boxes, we are implementing a video conditional access strategy utilizing our downloadable security on a set-top box specified by us which can be manufactured by many different manufacturers.   We expect to roll out downloadable security throughout our current systems to be retained after the Transactions.  Where we roll out downloadable security, we will utilize the Worldbox, and we expect to introduce Spectrum Guide        at that time as well.  Our Spectrum Guide        will deliver an improved guide on all boxes.  We believe Worldbox utilizing downloadable security along with the introduction of Spectrum Guide        will reduce our incremental set top box costs and allow for a consistent service for all of our customers and on all of their televisions with a service that is rich in HD, has modern search and discovery features and is capable of improved implementation of future enhancements. 
    
  Management, Customer Care and Marketing  
    
  Our operations are centralized with our corporate office responsible for coordinating and overseeing operations including establishing company-wide strategies, policies and procedures.  Sales and marketing, network operations, field operations, customer care, engineering, advertising sales, human resources, legal, government relations, information technology and finance are all directed at the corporate level.  Regional and local field operations are responsible for servicing customers and maintenance and construction of outside plant.   
    
  Charter continues to focus on improving the customer experience through improvements to our customer care processes, product offerings and the quality and reliability of our service.  Our customer care centers are managed centrally.  We have twelve internal customer care locations which route calls to the appropriate agents, plus several third-party call center locations that through technology and procedures function as an integrated system.  We increased the portion of service calls handled by Charter employees in 2014 and intend to continue to do so in 2015.  We also utilize our website to enable our customers to view and pay their bills on-line, obtain information regarding their account or services, and perform various equipment troubleshooting procedures.  Our customers may also obtain support through our on-line chat functionality.   
    
  Our marketing strategy emphasizes our bundled services through targeted direct response marketing programs to existing and potential customers and increases awareness and value of the Charter brand.  In 2014, Charter rolled out Charter Spectrum , our new, national brand platform.  Charter Spectrum  represents our combined video, Internet and voice offering for residential customers.  This new brand reflects our comprehensive approach to industry-leading products, driven by speed, performance and innovation.  Marketing expenditures increased by   $41 million  , or   8%  , over the year ended   December 31, 2013   to   $529 million   for the year ended   December 31, 2014   as a result of the acquisition of Bresnan in July 2013, heavier sales activity and sales channel development and higher commercial marketing.  Our marketing organization creates and executes marketing programs intended to increase customers, retain existing customers and cross-sell additional products to current customers.  We monitor the effectiveness of our marketing efforts, customer perception, competition, pricing, and service preferences, among other factors, to increase our responsiveness to our customers.  Our marketing organization also manages and directs several sales channels including direct sales, on-line, outbound telemarketing and Charter stores. 
      
   8 

Programming    
    
  General 
    
  We believe that offering a wide variety of programming influences a customer s decision to subscribe to and retain our cable services.  We rely on our experience in programming cable systems, which includes market research, customer demographics and local programming preferences to determine channel offerings in each of our markets.  We obtain basic and premium programming from a number of suppliers, usually pursuant to written contracts.  Our programming contracts generally continue for a fixed period of time, usually from three to eight years, and are subject to negotiated renewal.  Some programming suppliers offer financial incentives to support the launch of a channel and/or ongoing marketing support.  We also negotiate volume discount pricing structures.  We have more recently negotiated for additional content rights allowing us to provide programming on-line to our authenticated customers.     
    
  Costs 
    
  Programming is usually made available to us for a license fee, which is generally paid based on the number of customers to whom we make such programming available.  Programming costs are usually payable each month based on calculations performed by us and are generally subject to annual cost escalations and may be subject to audits by the programmers.  Programming license fees may include  volume  discounts available for higher numbers of customers, as well as discounts for channel placement or service penetration.  Some channels are available without cost to us for a limited period of time, after which we pay for the programming.  For home shopping channels, we receive a percentage of the revenue attributable to our customers  purchases, as well as, in some instances, incentives for channel placement.  
    
  Our programming costs have increased in every year we have operated in excess of customary inflationary and cost-of-living type increases.  We expect them to continue to increase due to a variety of factors including amounts paid for retransmission consent, annual increases imposed by programmers with additional selling power as a result of media consolidation, and carriage of incremental programming, including new sports services and on-line linear services and video on demand programming. In particular, programming costs are increasing as a result of significant sports programming cost increases over the past several years and the demands of large media companies who link carriage of their most popular networks to carriage and cost increases for all of their networks.  In addition, contracts to purchase sports programming sometimes provide for optional additional games to be added to the service and made available on a surcharge basis during the term of the contract.  Programmers continue to create new networks and migrate popular programming, such as sporting events to those networks.  Spreading popular programming across more networks often results in us having to pay more for a suite of networks offered by any one programmer.  Finally, programmers have experienced declines in demand for advertising as advertisers shift more of their marketing spend online.  We believe this results in programmers demanding higher programming fees from us as programmers seek to recover revenue they are losing to online advertising. 
    
  Federal law allows commercial television broadcast stations to make an election between  must-carry  rights and an alternative  retransmission-consent  regime.  When a station opts for the retransmission-consent regime, we are not allowed to carry the station s signal without the station s permission.  Continuing demands by owners of broadcast stations for cash payments at substantial increases over amounts paid in prior years in exchange for retransmission consent will increase our programming costs or require us to cease carriage of popular programming, potentially leading to a loss of customers in affected markets. 
    
  Over the past several years, increases in our video service rates have not fully offset increasing programming costs, and with the impact of increasing competition and other marketplace factors, we do not expect them to do so in the foreseeable future.  Although we pass along a portion of amounts paid for retransmission consent to the majority of our customers, our inability to fully pass these programming cost increases on to our video customers has had and is expected in the future to have an adverse impact on our cash flow and operating margins associated with the video product.      In order to mitigate reductions of our operating margins due to rapidly increasing programming costs, we continue to review our pricing and programming packaging strategies, and we plan to continue to migrate certain program services from our basic level of service to our digital tiers, remove underperforming services and limit the launch of non-essential, new networks.     
    
  We have programming contracts that have expired and others that will expire at or before the end of 2015.  We will seek to renegotiate the terms of these agreements.  There can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed on favorable or comparable terms.  To the extent that we are unable to reach agreement with certain programmers on terms that we believe are reasonable, we have been, and may in the future be, forced to remove such programming channels from our line-up, which may result in a loss of customers.   

9 

Franchises    
    
  As of   December 31, 2014  , our systems operated pursuant to a total of approximately 3,300 franchises, permits, and similar authorizations issued by local and state governmental authorities.  Such governmental authorities often must approve a transfer to another party.  Most franchises are subject to termination proceedings in the event of a material breach.  In addition, most franchises require us to pay the granting authority up to 5.0% of revenues as defined in the various agreements, which is the maximum amount that may be charged under the applicable federal law.  We are entitled to and generally do pass this fee through to the customer.    
    
  Prior to the scheduled expiration of most franchises, we generally initiate renewal proceedings with the granting authorities.  This process usually takes three years but can take a longer period of time.  The Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the  Communications Act ), which is the primary federal statute regulating interstate communications, provides for an orderly franchise renewal process in which granting authorities may not unreasonably withhold renewals.  In connection with the franchise renewal process, many governmental authorities require the cable operator to make certain commitments, such as building out certain of the franchise areas, customer service requirements, and supporting and carrying public access channels.  Historically, we have been able to renew our franchises without incurring significant costs, although any particular franchise may not be renewed on commercially favorable terms or otherwise.  If we fail to obtain renewals of franchises representing a significant number of our customers, it could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or our liquidity, including our ability to comply with our debt covenants.  See    Regulation and Legislation   Video Services   Franchise Matters.   
    
  Markets 
    
  We operate in geographically diverse areas which are organized in regional clusters we call key market areas.   These key market areas are managed centrally on a consolidated level.  Our twelve key market areas and the customer relationships within each market as of   December 31, 2014   are as follows (in thousands):   

Competition    
    
  We face competition for both residential and commercial customers in the areas of price, service offerings, and service reliability.  In our residential business, we compete with other providers of video, high-speed Internet access, voice services, and other sources of home entertainment.  In our commercial business, we compete with other providers of video, high-speed Internet access and related value-added services, fiber solutions, business telephony, and Ethernet services.  We operate in a competitive business environment, which can adversely affect the results of our business and operations.  We cannot predict the impact on us of broadband services offered by our competitors.   
    
  In terms of competition for customers, we view ourselves as a member of the broadband communications industry, which encompasses multi-channel video for television and related broadband services, such as high-speed Internet, voice, and other interactive video services.  In the broadband communications industry, our principal competitors for video services are direct  
      
   10 

broadcast satellite ( DBS ) and telephone companies that offer video services.  Our principal competitors for high-speed Internet services are the broadband services provided by telephone companies, including both traditional DSL, fiber-to-the-node, and fiber-to-the-home offerings.  Our principal competitors for voice services are established telephone companies, other telephone service providers, and other carriers, including VoIP providers.  At this time, we do not consider other traditional cable operators to be significant competitors in our overall market, as overbuilds are infrequent and geographically spotty (although in any particular market, a cable operator overbuilder would likely be a significant competitor at the local level).  We could, however, face additional competition from other cable operators if they began distributing video over the Internet to customers residing outside their current territories. 
    
  Our key competitors include:  
    
  DBS    
    
  Direct broadcast satellite is a significant competitor to cable systems.  The two largest DBS providers now serve more than 34 million subscribers nationwide.  DBS service allows the subscriber to receive video services directly via satellite using a dish antenna.   
    
  Video compression technology and high powered satellites allow DBS providers to offer more than 280 digital channels.  In 2014, major DBS competitors were especially competitive with promotional pricing for more basic services.  While we continue to believe that the initial investment by a DBS customer exceeds that of a cable customer, the initial equipment cost for DBS has decreased substantially, as the DBS providers have aggressively marketed offers to new customers of incentives for discounted or free equipment, installation, and multiple units.  DBS providers are able to offer service nationwide and are able to establish a national image and branding with standardized offerings, which together with their ability to avoid franchise fees of up to 5% of revenues and property tax, leads to greater efficiencies and lower costs in the lower tiers of service.  We believe that cable-delivered video on demand and subscription video on demand services, which include HD programming, are superior to DBS service, because cable headends can provide  communication to deliver many titles which customers can access and control independently, whereas DBS technology can only make available a much smaller number of titles with DVR-like customer control.  DBS providers have also made attempts at deployment of Internet access services via satellite, but those services have been technically constrained and of limited appeal.   
    
  Telephone Companies and Utilities 
    
  Incumbent telephone companies, including AT T Inc. ( AT T ) and Verizon Communications, Inc. ("Verizon"), offer video and other services in competition with us, and we expect they will increasingly do so in the future.  These companies are able to offer and provide two-way video, data services and digital voice services that are similar to ours in various portions of their networks.  In the case of Verizon, its high-speed data services (fiber optic service ( FiOS )) offer speeds as high as or higher than ours.  In addition, these companies continue to offer their traditional telephone services, as well as service bundles that include wireless voice services provided by affiliated companies.  Based on internal estimates, we believe that AT T and Verizon are offering video services in areas serving approximately   30%   and   4%  , respectively, of our estimated passings and we have experienced customer losses in these areas.  AT T and Verizon have also launched campaigns to capture more of the multiple dwelling unit ( MDU ) market. When AT T or Verizon have introduced or expanded their offering of video products in our market areas, we have seen a decrease in our video revenue as AT T and Verizon typically roll out aggressive marketing and discounting campaigns to launch their products.  Additionally, in May 2014, AT T announced its intention to acquire DirecTV, the nation s largest DBS provider.  If completed, this transaction will create an even larger competitor for Charter s video services that will have the ability to expand its video service offerings to include bundled wireless offerings. 
    
  In addition to incumbent telephone companies obtaining video franchises or alternative authorizations in some areas, and seeking them in others, they have been successful through various means in reducing or streamlining the video franchising requirements applicable to them.  They have had significant success at the federal and state level in securing FCC rulings and numerous statewide video franchise laws that facilitate telephone company entry into the video marketplace.  Because telephone companies have been successful in avoiding or reducing franchise and other regulatory requirements that remain applicable to cable operators like us, their competitive posture has often been enhanced.  The large scale entry of incumbent telephone companies as direct competitors in the video marketplace has adversely affected the profitability and valuation of our cable systems. 
    
  Most telephone companies, including AT T and Verizon, which already have plant, an existing customer base, and other operational functions in place (such as billing and service personnel), offer Internet access via traditional DSL service.  DSL service allows Internet access to subscribers at data transmission speeds greater than those formerly available over conventional telephone lines.  We believe DSL service is an alternative to our high-speed Internet service and is often offered at prices lower than our Internet services, although typically at speeds lower than the speeds we offer.  DSL providers may currently be in a better position to offer  
      
   11 

voice and data services to businesses since their networks tend to be more complete in commercial areas.  We expect DSL to remain a significant competitor to our high-speed Internet services.   
    
  Many large incumbent telephone companies also provide fiber-to-the-node or fiber-to-the-home services in select areas of their footprints.  Fiber-to-the-node networks can provide faster Internet speeds than conventional DSL, but still cannot typically match our Internet speeds.  Our primary fiber-to-the-node competitor is AT T's U-verse.  The competition from U-verse is expected to intensify over time as AT T completes an expansion based on plans announced in late 2012 by the end of 2015.  Fiber-to-the-home networks, however, can provide Internet speeds equal to or greater than Charter's current Internet speeds.  Verizon's FiOS is the primary fiber-to-the-home competitor, although AT T has also begun fiber-to-the home builds as well. 
    
  Our voice service competes directly with incumbent telephone companies and other carriers, including Internet-based VoIP providers, for both residential and commercial voice service customers.  Because we offer voice services, we are subject to considerable competition from such companies and other telecommunications providers, including wireless providers, with an increasing number of consumers choosing wireless over wired telephone services.  The telecommunications and voice services industry is highly competitive and includes competitors with greater financial and personnel resources, strong brand name recognition, and long-standing relationships with regulatory authorities and customers.  Moreover, mergers, joint ventures and alliances among our competitors have resulted in providers capable of offering cable television, Internet, and voice services in direct competition with us.   
    
  Additionally, we are subject to limited competition from utilities and/or municipal utilities that possess fiber optic transmission lines capable of transmitting signals with minimal signal distortion.  Certain of these utilities are also developing broadband over power line technology, which may allow the provision of Internet, phone and other broadband services to homes and offices.   
    
  Traditional Overbuilds 
    
  Cable systems are operated under non-exclusive franchises historically granted by state and local authorities.  More than one cable system may legally be built in the same area.  Franchising authorities may grant a second franchise to another cable operator that may contain terms and conditions more favorable than those afforded us.  Well-financed businesses from outside the cable industry, such as public utilities that already possess fiber optic and other transmission lines in the areas they serve, have in some cases become competitors.  There are a number of cities that have constructed their own cable systems, in a manner similar to city-provided utility services.  There also has been interest in traditional cable overbuilds by private companies not affiliated with established local exchange carriers.  Constructing a competing cable system is a capital intensive process which involves a high degree of risk.  We believe that in order to be successful, a competitor s overbuild would need to be able to serve the homes and businesses in the overbuilt area with equal or better service quality, on a more cost-effective basis than we can.  Any such overbuild operation would require access to capital or access to facilities already in place that are capable of delivering cable television programming. We cannot predict the extent to which additional overbuild situations may occur. 
    
  Broadcast Television 
    
  Cable television has long competed with broadcast television, which consists of television signals that the viewer is able to receive without charge using an  off-air  antenna.  The extent of such competition is dependent upon the quality and quantity of broadcast signals available through  off-air  reception, compared to the services provided by the local cable system.  Traditionally, cable television has provided higher picture quality and more channel offerings than broadcast television.  However, the recent licensing of digital spectrum by the FCC now provides traditional broadcasters with the ability to deliver HD television pictures and multiple digital-quality program streams, as well as advanced digital services such as subscription video and data transmission.  
    
  Internet Delivered Video 
    
  Internet access facilitates the streaming of video, including movies and television shows, into homes and businesses.  Online video services include those offered by Hulu, Netflix, Amazon and Apple.  Increasingly, content owners are using Internet-based delivery of content directly to consumers, some without charging a fee to access the content.  Further, due to consumer electronic innovations, consumers are able to watch such Internet-delivered content on televisions, personal computers, tablets, gaming boxes connected to televisions and mobile devices.  Recently, HBO and CBS announced plans to sell their programming direct to consumers over the Internet.  DISH Network has also announced Sling TV which will include ESPN among other programming, and Sony has announced Playstation Vue which is expected to include 75 channels to be launched in the first quarter of 2015.  We believe some customers have chosen or will  choose to receive video over the Internet rather than through our video on demand and subscription video services, thereby reducing our video revenues.  We cannot predict the impact that Internet delivered video will have on our revenues and adjusted EBITDA as technologies continue to evolve. 

12 

Private Cable 
    
  Additional competition is posed by satellite master antenna television systems, or SMATV systems, serving MDUs, such as condominiums, apartment complexes, and private residential communities.  Private cable systems can offer improved reception of local television stations, and many of the same satellite-delivered program services that are offered by cable systems.  Although disadvantaged from a programming cost perspective, SMATV systems currently benefit from operating advantages not available to franchised cable systems, including fewer regulatory burdens and no requirement to service low density or economically depressed communities.  The FCC previously adopted regulations that favor SMATV and private cable operators serving MDU complexes, allowing them to continue to secure exclusive contracts with MDU owners.  This regulatory disparity provides a competitive advantage to certain of our current and potential competitors.   
    
  Other Competitors 
    
  Local wireless Internet services operate in some markets using available unlicensed radio spectrum.  Various wireless phone companies are now offering third and fourth generation (3G and 4G) wireless high-speed Internet services. In addition, a growing number of commercial areas, such as retail malls, restaurants and airports, offer Wi-Fi Internet service. Numerous local governments are also considering or actively pursuing publicly subsidized Wi-Fi Internet access networks.  Operators are also marketing PC cards and  personal hotspots  offering wireless broadband access to their cellular networks.  These service options offer another alternative to cable-based Internet access.  
    
  Seasonality and Cyclicality  
    
  Our business is subject to seasonal and cyclical variations. Our results are impacted by the seasonal nature of customers receiving our cable services in college and vacation markets. Our revenue is subject to cyclical advertising patterns and changes in viewership levels. Our U.S. advertising revenue is generally higher in the second and fourth calendar quarters of each year, due in part to increases in consumer advertising in the spring and in the period leading up to and including the holiday season. U.S. advertising revenue is also cyclical, benefiting in even-numbered years from advertising related to candidates running for political office and issue-oriented advertising. 
    
  Regulation and Legislation  
    
  The following summary addresses the key regulatory and legislative developments affecting the cable industry and our three primary services for both residential and commercial customers: video service, Internet service, and voice service.  Cable system operations are extensively regulated by the federal government (primarily the FCC), certain state governments, and many local governments.  A failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to substantial penalties.  Our business can be dramatically impacted by changes to the existing regulatory framework, whether triggered by legislative, administrative, or judicial rulings.  Congress and the FCC have frequently revisited the subject of communications regulation and they are likely to do so again in the future.  We could be materially disadvantaged in the future if we are subject to new regulations that do not equally impact our key competitors.  We cannot provide assurance that the already extensive regulation of our business will not be expanded in the future. 
    
  Video     Service    
    
  Cable Rate Regulation.    Federal regulations currently restrict the prices that cable systems charge for the minimum level of video programming service, referred to as  basic service,  and associated equipment.  All other video service offerings are now universally exempt from rate regulation.  Although basic service rate regulation operates pursuant to a federal formula, local governments, commonly referred to as local franchising authorities, are primarily responsible for administering this regulation.  The majority of our local franchising authorities have never been certified to regulate basic service cable rates (and order rate reductions and refunds), but they generally retain the right to do so (subject to potential regulatory limitations under state franchising laws), except in those specific communities facing  effective competition,  as defined under federal law.  We have secured FCC recognition of effective competition, and become rate deregulated, in many of our communities. 
    
  There have been frequent calls to impose expanded rate regulation on the cable industry.  Confronted with rapidly increasing cable programming costs, it is possible that Congress may adopt new constraints on the retail pricing or packaging of cable programming.  Any such constraints could adversely affect our operations.   
    
  Federal rate regulations include certain marketing restrictions that could affect our pricing and packaging of service tiers and equipment.  As we attempt to respond to a changing marketplace with competitive pricing practices, we may face regulations that impede our ability to compete. 
      
   13 

Must Carry/Retransmission Consent.    There are two alternative legal methods for carriage of local broadcast television stations on cable systems.  Federal  must carry  regulations require cable systems to carry local broadcast television stations upon the request of the local broadcaster.  Alternatively, federal law includes  retransmission consent  regulations, by which popular commercial television stations can prohibit cable carriage unless the cable operator first negotiates for  retransmission consent,  which may be conditioned on significant payments or other concessions.  Congress passed legislation in 2014 imposing certain restrictions on broadcasters  exercise of retransmission consent authority and directing the FCC to review aspects of its existing retransmission consent rules.  Popular stations invoking  retransmission consent  have been demanding substantial compensation increases in their recent negotiations with cable operators, thereby significantly increasing our operating costs. 
    
  Additional government-mandated broadcast carriage obligations could disrupt existing programming commitments, interfere with our preferred use of limited channel capacity, and limit our ability to offer services that appeal to our customers and generate revenues.   
    
  Access Channels.    Local franchise agreements often require cable operators to set aside certain channels for public, educational, and governmental access programming.  Federal law also requires cable systems to designate up to 15% of their channel capacity for commercial leased access by unaffiliated third parties, who may offer programming that our customers do not particularly desire.  The FCC adopted revised rules in 2007 mandating a significant reduction in the rates that operators can charge commercial leased access users and imposing additional administrative requirements that would be burdensome on the cable industry.  The effect of the FCC's revised rules was stayed by a federal court, pending a cable industry appeal and an adverse finding by the Office of Management and Budget.  Although commercial leased access activity historically has been relatively limited, increased activity in this area could further burden the channel capacity of our cable systems. 
    
  Ownership Restrictions.    Federal regulation of the communications field traditionally included a host of ownership restrictions, which limited the size of certain media entities and restricted their ability to enter into competing enterprises.  Through a series of legislative, regulatory, and judicial actions, most of these restrictions have been either eliminated or substantially relaxed.  Changes in this regulatory area could alter the business environment in which we operate. 
    
  Pole Attachments.    The Communications Act requires most utilities owning utility poles to provide cable systems with access to poles and conduits and simultaneously subjects the rates charged for this access to either federal or state regulation.  In 2011, the FCC amended its existing pole attachment rules to promote broadband deployment.  The 2011 order allows for new penalties in certain cases involving unauthorized attachments, but generally strengthens the cable industry's ability to access investor-owned utility poles on reasonable rates, terms, and conditions.  It specifically maintains the basic rate formula applicable to  cable  attachments, but reduces the rate formula previously applicable to  telecommunications  attachments.  Although the order maintains the status quo treatment of cable-provided VoIP service as an unclassified service eligible for the favorable cable rate, the issue has not been fully resolved by the FCC, and a potential change in classification in a pending proceeding (as well as an unresolved dispute over the telecommunications rate calculation) could adversely impact our pole attachment rates.   
    
  Cable Equipment.    In 1996, Congress enacted a statute requiring the FCC to adopt regulations designed to assure the development of an independent retail market for  navigation devices,  such as cable set-top boxes. As a result, the FCC required cable operators to make a separate offering of security modules (  i.e  ., a  CableCARD ) that can be used with retail navigation devices. Some of the FCC s rules requiring support for CableCARDs were vacated by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia in 2013.  The FCC had also adopted an  integration ban,  which had required cable operators to use CableCARDs in all of their new set-top boxes.  In April 2013, Charter received a two-year waiver from the FCC s  integration ban,  on the condition that Charter meet certain milestones regarding downloadable security by the end of the waiver period.  This waiver affords Charter the ability to use lower-cost set-top boxes as it transitions to all-digital operations.  In connection with our request for this waiver, Charter committed to continue to support CableCARDs and to follow the CableCARD-related rules that were struck down by the court in 2013.  In December 2014, as part of the Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act Reauthorization Act of 2014 ( STELAR ), Congress repealed the integration ban, effective December 4, 2015, and extended the then-existing waivers, including Charter s, through that date.  STELAR also directed the FCC to establish within 45 days of enactment, a  working group of technical experts  to identify and report on downloadable security design options that are not unduly burdensome and that promote competition with respect to the availability of navigation devices.  It is possible that the FCC could propose new equipment obligations as a result of the recommendation of this working group. 
    
  MDUs / Inside Wiring  .  The FCC has adopted a series of regulations designed to spur competition to established cable operators in MDU complexes.  These regulations allow our competitors to access certain existing cable wiring inside MDUs.  The FCC also adopted regulations limiting the ability of established cable operators, like us, to enter into exclusive service contracts for MDU complexes.  In their current form, the FCC s regulations in this area favor our competitors.   

14 

Privacy     and Information Security Regulation  .  The Communications Act limits our ability to collect and disclose subscribers  personally identifiable information for our video, voice, and Internet services, as well as provides requirements to safeguard such information.  We are subject to additional federal, state, and local laws and regulations that impose additional restrictions on the collection, use and disclosure of consumer, subscriber and employee information.  Further, the FCC, FTC, and many states regulate and restrict the marketing practices of cable operators, including telemarketing and online marketing efforts. Various federal agencies, including the FTC, are now considering new restrictions affecting the use of personal and profiling data for online advertising. 
    
  Our operations are also subject to federal and state laws governing information security.  In the event of an information security breach, such rules may require consumer and government agency notification and may result in regulatory enforcement actions with the potential of monetary forfeitures.  The FCC has recently used the existing authority under its privacy and security requirements for voice services  to bring enforcement actions against two companies for failing to protect customer data from unauthorized access by and disclosure to third parties, with proposed forfeitures totaling $10 million.  Similarly, the FTC and state attorneys general regularly bring enforcement actions against companies related to information security breaches and privacy violations.  Congress and several state legislatures are considering the adoption of new data security and cybersecurity legislation that could result in additional network and information security requirements for our business.   
    
  On February 12, 2014, the National Institute for Standards and Technologies ("NIST"), in cooperation with other federal agencies and owners and operators of U.S. critical infrastructure, released a voluntary framework that provides a prioritized and flexible model for organizations to identify and manage cyber risks inherent to their business.  The NIST cybersecurity framework was directed by an Executive Order and a Presidential Policy Directive issued in 2013, and it is designed to supplement, not supersede, existing cybersecurity regulations and requirements.  Several government agencies have encouraged compliance with the NIST cybersecurity framework, including the FCC, which is also considering expansion of its cybersecurity guidelines or the adoption of cybersecurity requirements.  We cannot predict what proposals may be adopted or how new legislation and regulations, if any, would affect our business. 
    
  Other FCC Regulatory Matters.    FCC regulations cover a variety of additional areas, including, among other things: (1) equal employment opportunity obligations; (2) customer service standards; (3) technical service standards; (4) mandatory blackouts of certain network and syndicated programming; (5) restrictions on political advertising; (6) restrictions on advertising in children's programming; (7) licensing of systems and facilities; (8) maintenance of public files; (9) emergency alert systems; and (10) disability access, including new requirements governing video-description and closed-captioning.  Each of these regulations restricts our business practices to varying degrees and may impose additional costs on our operations. 
    
  It is possible that Congress or the FCC will expand or modify its regulation of cable systems in the future, and we cannot predict at this time how that might impact our business.   
    
  Copyright.    Cable systems are subject to a federal copyright compulsory license covering carriage of television and radio broadcast signals.  The possible modification or elimination of this compulsory copyright license is the subject of continuing legislative proposals and administrative review and could adversely affect our ability to obtain desired broadcast programming.  The Copyright Office adopted final rules in 2014 implementing audit procedures for copyright owners to review operators  copyright royalty reporting practices, and it is possible these audits could result in copyright owner demands for additional royalty fees.    
    
  Copyright clearances for non-broadcast programming services are arranged through private negotiations.  Cable operators also must obtain music rights for locally originated programming and advertising from the major music performing rights organizations.  These licensing fees have been the source of litigation in the past, and we cannot predict with certainty whether license fee disputes may arise in the future. 
    
  Franchise Matters.    Cable systems generally are operated pursuant to nonexclusive franchises granted by a municipality or other state or local government entity in order to utilize and cross public rights-of-way.  Cable franchises generally are granted for fixed terms and in many cases include monetary penalties for noncompliance and may be terminable if the franchisee fails to comply with material provisions.  The specific terms and conditions of cable franchises vary significantly between jurisdictions.  Cable franchises generally contain provisions governing cable operations, franchise fees, system construction, maintenance, technical performance, customer service standards, and changes in the ownership of the franchisee.  A number of states subject cable systems to the jurisdiction of centralized state government agencies, such as public utility commissions.  Although local franchising authorities have considerable discretion in establishing franchise terms, certain federal protections benefit cable operators.  For example, federal law caps local franchise fees and includes renewal procedures designed to protect incumbent franchisees from arbitrary denials of renewal.  Even if a franchise is renewed, however, the local franchising authority may seek to impose new and more onerous requirements as a condition of renewal.  Similarly, if a local franchising authority's consent is required for the  
      
   15 

purchase or sale of a cable system, the local franchising authority may attempt to impose more burdensome requirements as a condition for providing its consent. 
    
  The traditional cable franchising regime has recently undergone significant change as a result of various federal and state actions.  The FCC has adopted rules that streamline entry for new competitors (particularly those affiliated with telephone companies) and reduce certain franchising burdens for these new entrants.  The FCC adopted more modest relief for existing cable operators. 
    
  At the same time, a substantial number of states have adopted new franchising laws.  Again, these laws were principally designed to streamline entry for new competitors, and they often provide advantages for these new entrants that are not immediately available to existing cable operators.  In many instances, these franchising regimes do not apply to established cable operators until the existing franchise expires or a competitor directly enters the franchise territory.  The exact nature of these state franchising laws, and their varying application to new and existing video providers, will impact our franchising obligations and our competitive position. 
    
  Internet Service  
    
  On January 14, 2014, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals, in   Verizon v. FCC  , struck down major     portions of the FCC s 2010  net neutrality  rules governing the operating practices of broadband Internet access providers like us.  The FCC originally designed the rules to ensure an  open Internet  and included three key requirements for broadband providers:  (1) a prohibition against blocking websites or other online applications; (2) a prohibition against unreasonable discrimination among Internet users or among different websites or other sources of information; and (3) a transparency requirement compelling the disclosure of network management policies.  The Court struck down the first two requirements, concluding that they constitute  common carrier  restrictions that are not permissible given the FCC s earlier decision to classify Internet access as an  information service,  rather than a  telecommunications service.   The Court upheld the FCC s transparency requirement and the FCC's authority to adopt regulations regarding the Internet.   
    
  On May 15, 2014, the FCC initiated a new rulemaking to issue new network neutrality regulations, potentially including a reclassification of broadband services as Title II common carrier services, which could subject our services to far more extensive and burdensome federal and state regulation.  On February 4, 2015, the Chairman of the FCC released a fact sheet describing his proposed new rules.  The Chairman's proposal reclassifies wireline and wireless broadband services as Title II common carrier services, and asserts legal authority to regulate broadband service offered by ISPs under Title II, Title III, and Section 706 of the Telecommunications Act. In an effort to protect consumers and edge providers, the new rules would prohibit ISPs from engaging in blocking, throttling, and paid prioritization, and the existing transparency rules would be enhanced. Reasonable network management activities would remain permitted. For the first time, the FCC would have authority to hear complaints and take enforcement action if it determines that the interconnection agreements of ISPs are not just and reasonable, or if ISPs fail to meet a new general obligation not to harm consumers or edge providers. The Chairman has proposed forbearing from certain Title II regulation, such as rate regulation, tariffs and last-mile unbundling. The Chairman of the FCC has indicated he intends to have the Commissioners vote on his proposal at the end of February 2015.  As the FCC is made up of five Commissioners with three being Democrats, including the Chairman, it is likely the FCC will adopt the Chairman's proposed rules.  If adopted, several broadband providers have already indicated their intention to challenge the regulations in court. There are also legislative proposals in Congress to preempt the Chairman s proposed utility-style regulation, while still addressing many of the underlying concerns. We do not know at the current time if the new regulations proposed by the Chairman will go into effect, nor do we know how they would be administered, but they could limit our ability to efficiently manage our cable systems and respond to operational and competitive challenges. 
    
  As the Internet has matured, it has become the subject of increasing regulatory interest.  Congress and federal regulators have adopted a wide range of measures directly or potentially affecting Internet use, including, for example, consumer privacy, copyright protections, defamation liability, taxation, obscenity, and unsolicited commercial e-mail.  Our Internet services are subject to the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act ("CALEA") requirements regarding law enforcement surveillance.  Content owners are now seeking additional legal mechanisms to combat copyright infringement over the Internet.  Pending and future legislation in this area could adversely affect our operations as an Internet service provider and our relationship with our Internet customers.  Additionally, the FCC and Congress are considering subjecting Internet access services to the Universal Service funding requirements.  These funding requirements could impose significant new costs on our high-speed Internet service.  Also, the FCC and some state regulatory commissions direct certain subsidies to telephone companies deploying broadband to areas deemed to be  unserved  or  underserved.   Charter has opposed such subsidies when directed to areas that Charter serves.  Despite Charter s efforts, future subsidies may be directed to areas served by Charter, which could result in subsidized competitors operating in our service territories.  State and local governmental organizations have also adopted Internet-related regulations.  These various governmental jurisdictions are also considering additional regulations in these and other areas, such as privacy, pricing, service  
      
   16 

and product quality, and taxation.  The adoption of new Internet regulations or the adaptation of existing laws to the Internet could adversely affect our business.  
    
  The FCC is now considering whether online video distributors ( OVDs ) that offer programming to customers with a broadband Internet connection should be classified as multichannel video programming distributors ( MVPDs ), and thereby subject to the program access protections available to MVPDs, as well as some of the regulatory requirements applicable to MVPDs.  The outcome of this proceeding, which could impact how OVDs compete in the future with traditional cable service, cannot be determined at the current time.     
    
  On January 29, 2015, the FCC, in a nation-wide proceeding evaluating whether  advanced broadband  is being deployed in a reasonable and timely fashion, increased the minimum connection speeds required to qualify as advanced broadband service to 25 Mbps for downloads and 3 Mbps for uploads.  As a result, the FCC concluded that advanced broadband was not being sufficiently deployed and initiated a new inquiry into what steps it might take to encourage broadband deployment.  This action may lead the FCC to adopt additional measures affecting our broadband business.  At the same time, the FCC has ongoing proceedings to allocate additional spectrum for advanced wireless service, which could provide additional wireless competition to our broadband business. 
    
  The FCC is also currently considering two petitions from municipalities in North Carolina and Tennessee, respectively, seeking the preemption of state laws that restrict the ability of municipalities to construct and deploy broadband systems in competition with private offerings. The Chairman has proposed an order that grants the petitions.  While such an order would only preempt the laws of the states at issue, municipalities in other states may seek similar relief.  There are approximately 20 such state laws now in effect.  FCC preemption would be predicated on the belief that such state laws are impeding the nation-wide deployment of broadband service. Any such action would likely be subject to appeal regarding the FCC s preemptive authority, and Congress might also adopt legislation expressly limiting the FCC s authority in this area. If the FCC does preempt state restrictions and that preemption is upheld, it could lead to increased competition from municipal-provided broadband.  
    
  Voice Service 
    
  The Telecommunications Act of 1996 created a more favorable regulatory environment for us to provide telecommunications and/or competitive voice services than had previously existed.  In particular, it established requirements ensuring that competitive telephone companies could interconnect their networks with those providers of traditional telecommunications services to open the market to competition.  The FCC has subsequently ruled that competitive telephone companies that support VoIP services, such as those we offer our customers, are entitled to interconnection with incumbent providers of traditional telecommunications services, which ensures that our VoIP services can compete in the market.  Since that time, the FCC has initiated a proceeding to determine whether such interconnection rights should extend to traditional and competitive networks utilizing IP technology, and how to encourage the transition to IP networks throughout the industry.  New rules or obligations arising from these proceedings may affect our ability to compete in the provision of voice services.  On November 18, 2011, the FCC released an order significantly changing the rules governing intercarrier compensation payments for the termination of telephone traffic between carriers. The new rules will result in a substantial decrease in intercarrier compensation payments over a multi-year period. We received intercarrier compensation of approximately   $23 million  ,   $21 million   and   $19 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively.  The decreases over the multi-year transition will affect both the amounts that Charter pays to other carriers and the amounts that Charter receives from other carriers. The schedule and magnitude of these decreases, however, will vary depending on the nature of the carriers and the telephone traffic at issue, and the FCC's new ruling initiates further implementation rulemakings. We cannot yet predict with certainty the balance of the impact on Charter's revenues and expenses for voice services at particular times over this multi-year period.   
    
  Further regulatory changes are being considered that could impact our voice business and that of our primary telecommunications competitors.  The FCC and state regulatory authorities are considering, for example, whether certain common carrier regulations traditionally applied to incumbent local exchange carriers should be modified or reduced, and the extent to which common carrier requirements should be extended to VoIP providers.  The FCC has already determined that certain providers of voice services using Internet Protocol technology must comply with requirements relating to 911 emergency services ( E911 ), the CALEA (the statute governing law enforcement access to and surveillance of communications), Universal Service Fund contributions, customer privacy and Customer Proprietary Network Information issues, number portability, network outage reporting, rural call completion, disability access, regulatory fees, and discontinuance of service.  In March 2007, a federal appeals court affirmed the FCC s decision concerning federal regulation of certain VoIP services, but declined to specifically find that VoIP service provided by cable companies, such as we provide, should be regulated only at the federal level.  As a result, some states have begun proceedings to subject cable VoIP services to state level regulation.  Although we have registered with, or obtained certificates or authorizations from the FCC and the state regulatory authorities in those states in which we offer competitive voice services in order to ensure  
      
   17 

the continuity of our services and to maintain needed network interconnection arrangements, it is unclear whether and how these and other ongoing regulatory matters ultimately will be resolved.   
    
  In addition, in 2013 the FCC issued a broad data collection order that will require providers of point to point transport ( special access ) services, such as Charter, to produce information to the agency concerning the rates, terms and conditions of these services.  The FCC will use the data to evaluate whether the market for such services is competitive, or whether the market should be subject to further regulation, which may increase our costs or constrain our ability to compete in this market.  The FCC is also considering recommendations to select a new national local number portability administrator after the current administrator s contract expires in June 2015.  Any such change may impact our ability to manage number porting and related tasks. 
    
  Employees    
    
  As of   December 31, 2014  , we had approximately 23,200 full-time equivalent employees.  At   December 31, 2014  , approximately 140 of our employees were represented by collective bargaining agreements.  We have never experienced a work stoppage.   
    
    Item 1A.         Risk Factors.  
    
  Risks Related to Our Indebtedness  
    
  We have a significant amount of debt and may incur significant additional debt, including secured debt, in the future, which could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to react to changes in our business. 
    
  We have a significant amount of debt and may (subject to applicable restrictions in our debt instruments) incur additional debt in the future. As of   December 31, 2014  , our total principal amount of debt was approximately   $21.1 billion  , including $7.0 billion of debt for which proceeds are held in escrow pending consummation of the Transactions. 
    
  Our significant amount of debt could have consequences, such as: 

impact our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable rates, or at all; 
                
    make us vulnerable to interest rate increases, because approximately   28%   of our borrowings are, and may continue to be, subject to variable rates of interest; 
                
    expose us to increased interest expense to the extent we refinance existing debt with higher cost debt; 
                
    require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operating activities to make payments on our debt, reducing our funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate expenses; 
                
    limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the cable and telecommunications industries, and the economy at large; 
                
    place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt; and 
                
    adversely affect our relationship with customers and suppliers. 
       
  If current debt amounts increase, the related risks that we now face will intensify.  
    
  The agreements and instruments governing our debt contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity. 
    
  Our credit facilities and the indentures governing our debt contain a number of significant covenants that could adversely affect our ability to operate our business, our liquidity, and our results of operations.  These covenants restrict, among other things, our and our subsidiaries  ability to: 

incur additional debt; 
                
    repurchase or redeem equity interests and debt; 
                
    issue equity; 
                
    make certain investments or acquisitions; 
                
    pay dividends or make other distributions; 
                
    dispose of assets or merge; 
                
    enter into related party transactions; and  
                
    grant liens and pledge assets. 
       
  Additionally, the Charter Operating credit facilities require Charter Operating to comply with a maximum total leverage covenant and a maximum first lien leverage covenant.  The breach of any covenants or obligations in our indentures or credit facilities, not  
      
   18 

otherwise waived or amended, could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness.  In addition, the secured lenders under the Charter Operating credit facilities could foreclose on their collateral, which includes equity interests in our subsidiaries, and exercise other rights of secured creditors.         
    
  We depend on generating sufficient cash flow to fund our debt obligations, capital expenditures, and ongoing operations.   
    
  We are dependent on our cash on hand and cash flow from operations to fund our debt obligations, capital expenditures and ongoing operations. 
    
  Our ability to service our debt and to fund our planned capital expenditures and ongoing operations will depend on our ability to continue to generate cash flow and our access (by dividend or otherwise) to additional liquidity sources at the applicable obligor.  Our ability to continue to generate cash flow is dependent on many factors, including: 

our ability to sustain and grow revenues and cash flow from operations by offering video, Internet, voice, advertising and other services to residential and commercial customers, to adequately meet the customer experience demands in our markets and to maintain and grow our customer base, particularly in the face of increasingly aggressive competition, the need for innovation and the related capital expenditures; 
                
    the impact of competition from other market participants, including but not limited to incumbent telephone companies, direct broadcast satellite operators, wireless broadband and telephone providers, DSL providers, video provided over the Internet and providers of advertising over the Internet; 
                
    general business conditions, economic uncertainty or downturn, high unemployment levels and the level of activity in the housing sector;  
                
    our ability to obtain programming at reasonable prices or to raise prices to offset, in whole or in part, the effects of higher programming costs (including retransmission consents);  
                
    the development and deployment of new products and technologies; and 
                
    the effects of governmental regulation on our business or potential business combination transactions. 
       
  Some of these factors are beyond our control.  If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or we are unable to access additional liquidity sources, we may not be able to service and repay our debt, operate our business, respond to competitive challenges, or fund our other liquidity and capital needs.   
    
  Restrictions in our subsidiaries' debt instruments and under applicable law limit their ability to provide funds to us and our subsidiaries that are debt issuers. 
    
  Our primary assets are our equity interests in our subsidiaries.  Our operating subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and are not obligated to make funds available to their debt issuer holding companies for payments on our notes or other obligations in the form of loans, distributions, or otherwise.  Charter Operating s ability to make distributions to us, CCOH Safari or CCO Holdings, our other primary debt issuers, to service debt obligations is subject to its compliance with the terms of its credit facilities, and restrictions under applicable law.  See  Part II. Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   Limitations on Distributions  and    Summary of Restrictive Covenants of Our Notes   Restrictions on Distributions.   Under the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act (the  Act ), our subsidiaries may only make distributions if the relevant entity has  surplus  as defined in the Act.  Under fraudulent transfer laws, our subsidiaries may not pay dividends if the relevant entity is insolvent or is rendered insolvent thereby.  The measures of insolvency for purposes of these fraudulent transfer laws vary depending upon the law applied in any proceeding to determine whether a fraudulent transfer has occurred.  Generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if: 

the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair saleable value of all its assets; 
                
    the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or 
                
    it could not pay its debts as they became due. 
       
  While we believe that our relevant subsidiaries currently have surplus and are not insolvent, these subsidiaries may become insolvent in the future.  Our direct or indirect subsidiaries include the borrowers under the CCO Safari credit facility and the borrowers and guarantors under the Charter Operating credit facilities.  CCOH Safari and CCO Holdings are each an obligor under their respective senior notes.  As of   December 31, 2014  , our total principal amount of debt was approximately   $21.1 billion  , including $7.0 billion of debt for which proceeds are held in escrow pending consummation of the Transactions. 

19 

In the event of bankruptcy, liquidation, or dissolution of one or more of our subsidiaries, that subsidiary's assets would first be applied to satisfy its own obligations, and following such payments, such subsidiary may not have sufficient assets remaining to make payments to its parent company as an equity holder or otherwise. In that event: 

the lenders under Charter Operating's credit facilities, whose interests are secured by substantially all of our operating assets, and all holders of other debt of CCOH Safari, CCO Holdings, Charter Operating and CCO Safari, will have the right to be paid in full before us from any of our subsidiaries' assets; and 
                
    CCH I, the holder of preferred membership interests in our subsidiary, CC VIII, would have a claim on a portion of CC VIII s assets that may reduce the amounts available for repayment to holders of CCO Holdings' and CCOH Safari's outstanding notes. 
       
  All of our outstanding debt is subject to change of control provisions.  We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to fulfill our obligations under our indebtedness following a change of control, which would place us in default under the applicable debt instruments. 
    
  We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to fulfill our obligations under our notes and our credit facilities following a change of control.  Under the indentures governing our notes, upon the occurrence of specified change of control events, the debt issuer is required to offer to repurchase all of its outstanding notes.  However, we may not have sufficient access to funds at the time of the change of control event to make the required repurchase of the applicable notes, and Charter Operating is limited in its ability to make distributions or other payments to any debt issuer to fund any required repurchase.  In addition, a change of control under the Charter Operating credit facilities would result in a default under those credit facilities.  Because such credit facilities are obligations of Charter Operating, the credit facilities would have to be repaid before Charter Operating's assets could be available to CCO Holdings or CCOH Safari to repurchase their notes.  Any failure to make or complete a change of control offer would place CCO Holdings or CCOH Safari in default under its notes.  The failure of our subsidiaries to make a change of control offer or repay the amounts accelerated under their notes and credit facilities would place them in default. 
    
  Risks Related to Our Business    
    
  We operate in a very competitive business environment, which affects our ability to attract and retain customers and can adversely affect our business, operations and financial results.  
    
  The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and has become more so in recent years.  In some instances, we compete against companies with fewer regulatory burdens, better access to financing, greater personnel resources, greater resources for marketing, greater and more favorable brand name recognition, and long-established relationships with regulatory authorities and customers.  Increasing consolidation in the cable industry and the repeal of certain ownership rules have provided additional benefits to certain of our competitors, either through access to financing, resources, or efficiencies of scale.  We could also face additional competition from multi-channel video providers if they began distributing video over the Internet to customers residing outside their current territories. 
    
  Our principal competitors for video services throughout our territory are DBS providers.  The two largest DBS providers are DirecTV and DISH Network.  Competition from DBS, including intensive marketing efforts with aggressive pricing, exclusive programming and increased HD broadcasting has had an adverse impact on our ability to retain customers. DBS companies have also expanded their activities in the MDU market.     
    
  Telephone companies, including two major telephone companies, AT T and Verizon, offer video and other services in competition with us, and we expect they will increasingly do so in the future.  Upgraded portions of these networks carry two-way video, data services and provide digital voice services similar to ours.  In the case of Verizon, FIOS high-speed data services offer speeds as high as or higher than ours.  In addition, these companies continue to offer their traditional telephone services, as well as service bundles that include wireless voice services provided by affiliated companies.  Based on our internal estimates, we believe that AT T and Verizon are offering video services in areas serving approximately   30%   and   4%  , respectively, of our estimated passings and we have experienced customer losses in these areas.  AT T and Verizon have also launched campaigns to capture more of the MDU market.  AT T has publicly stated that it expects to roll out its video product beyond the territories currently served although it is unclear where and to what extent.  When AT T or Verizon have introduced or expanded their offering of video products in our market areas, we have seen a decrease in our video revenue as AT T and Verizon typically roll out aggressive marketing and discounting campaigns to launch their products.  Additionally, in May 2014, AT T announced its intention to acquire DirecTV, the nation s largest DBS provider.  If completed, this transaction will create an even larger competitor for Charter s video services that will have the ability to expand its video service offerings to include bundled wireless offerings. 

20 

Due to consumer electronic innovations, content owners are allowing consumers to watch Internet-delivered content on televisions, personal computers, tablets, gaming boxes connected to televisions and mobile devices, some without charging a fee to access the content.  Technological advancements, such as video-on-demand, new video formats, and Internet streaming and downloading, have increased the number of entertainment and information delivery choices available to consumers, and intensified the challenges posed by audience fragmentation. For example, online video services continue to offer consumers alternatives including Hulu, Netflix, Amazon and Apple.  Recently, HBO and CBS announced plans to sell their programming direct to consumers over the Internet.  DISH has also announced Sling TV which will include ESPN among other programming, and Sony has announced PlayStation Vue which is expected to include 75 TV channels to be launched in the first quarter of 2015.  The increasing number of choices available to audiences could also negatively impact advertisers  willingness to purchase advertising from us, as well as the price they are willing to pay for advertising. 
    
  With respect to our Internet access services, we face competition, including intensive marketing efforts and aggressive pricing, from telephone companies, primarily AT T and Verizon, and other providers of DSL, fiber-to-the-node and fiber-to-the-home services.  DSL service competes with our Internet service and is often offered at prices lower than our Internet services, although often at speeds lower than the speeds we offer.  Fiber-to-the-node networks can provide faster Internet speeds than conventional DSL, but still cannot typically match our Internet speeds.  Fiber-to-the-home networks, however, can provide Internet speeds equal to or greater than our current Internet speeds.  In addition, in many of our markets, DSL providers have entered into co-marketing arrangements with DBS providers to offer service bundles combining video services provided by a DBS provider with DSL and traditional telephone and wireless services offered by the telephone companies and their affiliates.  These service bundles offer customers similar pricing and convenience advantages as our bundles.   
    
  Continued growth in our residential voice business faces risks.  The competitive landscape for residential and commercial telephone services is intense; we face competition from providers of Internet telephone services, as well as incumbent telephone companies.  Further, we face increasing competition for residential voice services as more consumers in the United States are replacing traditional telephone service with wireless service.  We expect to continue to price our voice product aggressively as part of our triple play strategy which could negatively impact our revenue from voice services to the extent we do not increase volume. 
    
  The existence of more than one cable system operating in the same territory is referred to as an overbuild.  Overbuilds could adversely affect our growth, financial condition, and results of operations, by creating or increasing competition.  We are aware of traditional overbuild situations impacting certain of our markets, however, we are unable to predict the extent to which additional overbuild situations may occur.  
    
  In order to attract new customers, from time to time we make promotional offers, including offers of temporarily reduced price or free service.  These promotional programs result in significant advertising, programming and operating expenses, and also may require us to make capital expenditures to acquire and install customer premise equipment.  Customers who subscribe to our services as a result of these offerings may not remain customers following the end of the promotional period.  A failure to retain customers could have a material adverse effect on our business.  
    
  Mergers, joint ventures, and alliances among franchised, wireless, or private cable operators, DBS providers, local exchange carriers, and others, may provide additional benefits to some of our competitors, either through access to financing, resources, or efficiencies of scale, or the ability to provide multiple services in direct competition with us.  
    
  In addition to the various competitive factors discussed above, our business competes with all other sources of entertainment and information delivery, including broadcast television, movies, live events, radio broadcasts, home video products, console games, print media, and the Internet.  If we do not respond appropriately to further increases in the leisure and entertainment choices available to consumers, our competitive position could deteriorate, and our financial results could suffer.  
    
  Our services may not allow us to compete effectively.  Competition may reduce our expected growth of future cash flows which may contribute to future impairments of our franchises and goodwill and our ability to meet cash flow requirements, including debt service requirements.   
    
  Our exposure to the economic conditions of our current and potential customers, vendors and third parties could adversely affect our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. 
    
  We are exposed to risks associated with the economic conditions of our current and potential customers, the potential financial instability of our customers and their financial ability to purchase our products.  If there were a general economic downtown, we may experience increased cancellations by our customers or unfavorable changes in the mix of products purchased.  These events have adversely affected us in the past, and may adversely affect our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition if a downturn were to occur.  
      
   21 

In addition, we are susceptible to risks associated with the potential financial instability of the vendors and third parties on which we rely to provide products and services or to which we outsource certain functions.  The same economic conditions that may affect our customers, as well as volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets, also could adversely affect vendors and third parties and lead to significant increases in prices, reduction in output or the bankruptcy of our vendors or third parties upon which we rely.  Any interruption in the services provided by our vendors or by third parties could adversely affect our cash flow, results of operation and financial condition. 
    
  We face risks inherent in our commercial business.    
    
  We may encounter unforeseen difficulties as we increase the scale of our service offerings to businesses.  We sell Internet access, data networking and fiber connectivity to cellular towers and office buildings, video and business voice services to businesses and have increased our focus on growing this business.  In order to grow our commercial business, we expect to continue investment in technology, equipment and personnel focused on the commercial business.  Commercial business customers often require service level agreements and generally have heightened customer expectations for reliability of services.  If our efforts to build the infrastructure to scale the commercial business are not successful, the growth of our commercial services business would be limited.  We depend on interconnection and related services provided by certain third parties for the growth of our commercial business.  As a result, our ability to implement changes as the services grow may be limited.  If we are unable to meet these service level requirements or expectations, our commercial business could be adversely affected.  Finally, we expect advances in communications technology, as well as changes in the marketplace and the regulatory and legislative environment. Consequently, we are unable to predict the effect that ongoing or future developments in these areas might have on our voice and commercial businesses and operations. 
    
  Programming costs are rising at a much faster rate than wages or inflation, and we may not have the ability to reduce or moderate the growth rates of, or pass on to our customers, our increasing programming costs, which would adversely affect our cash flow and operating margins. 
    
  Programming has been, and is expected to continue to be, our largest operating expense item.  In recent years, the cable industry has experienced a rapid escalation in the cost of programming.  We expect programming costs to continue to increase because of a variety of factors including amounts paid for retransmission consent, annual increases imposed by programmers with additional selling power as a result of media consolidation, incremental programming, including new sports services, out-of-home or non-linear programming and attempts by programmers to replace advertising revenue they are losing to online marketing options and as a result of declining viewership ratings.  The inability to fully pass these programming cost increases on to our customers has had an adverse impact on our cash flow and operating margins associated with the video product.  We have programming contracts that have expired and others that will expire at or before the end of 2015.  There can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed on favorable or comparable terms.  To the extent that we are unable to reach agreement with certain programmers on terms that we believe are reasonable, we may be forced to remove such programming channels from our line-up, which could result in a further loss of customers. 
    
  Increased demands by owners of some broadcast stations for carriage of other services or payments to those broadcasters for retransmission consent are likely to further increase our programming costs.  Federal law allows commercial television broadcast stations to make an election between  must-carry  rights and an alternative  retransmission-consent  regime.  When a station opts for the latter, cable operators are not allowed to carry the station s signal without the station s permission.  In some cases, we carry stations under short-term arrangements while we attempt to negotiate new long-term retransmission agreements.  If negotiations with these programmers prove unsuccessful, they could require us to cease carrying their signals, possibly for an indefinite period.  Any loss of stations could make our video service less attractive to customers, which could result in less subscription and advertising revenue.  In retransmission-consent negotiations, broadcasters often condition consent with respect to one station on carriage of one or more other stations or programming services in which they or their affiliates have an interest.  Carriage of these other services, as well as increased fees for retransmission rights, may increase our programming expenses and diminish the amount of capacity we have available to introduce new services, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. 
    
  Our inability to respond to technological developments and meet customer demand for new products and services could limit our ability to compete effectively.  
    
  Our business is characterized by rapid technological change and the introduction of new products and services, some of which are bandwidth-intensive.  We may not be able to fund the capital expenditures necessary to keep pace with technological developments, execute the plans to do so, or anticipate the demand of our customers for products and services requiring new technology or bandwidth.  The implementation of our network-based user interface, Spectrum Guide, and downloadable security necessary for our Worldbox set-top box strategy, may ultimately be unsuccessful or more expensive than anticipated. In order to realize the  
      
   22 

benefits of our Worldbox technology, we must implement our downloadable conditional access security in our regional video networks.  Our inability to maintain and expand our upgraded systems and provide advanced services such as a state of the art user interface in a timely manner, or to anticipate the demands of the marketplace, could materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers.  Consequently, our growth, financial condition and results of operations could suffer materially. 
    
  We depend on third party service providers, suppliers and licensors; thus, if we are unable to procure the necessary services, equipment, software or licenses on reasonable terms and on a timely basis, our ability to offer services could be impaired, and our growth, operations, business, financial results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.    
    
  We depend on third party service providers, suppliers and licensors to supply some of the services, hardware, software and operational support necessary to provide some of our services.  We obtain these materials from a limited number of vendors, some of which do not have a long operating history or which may not be able to continue to supply the equipment and services we desire.  Some of our hardware, software and operational support vendors, and service providers represent our sole source of supply or have, either through contract or as a result of intellectual property rights, a position of some exclusivity.  If demand exceeds these vendors  capacity or if these vendors experience operating or financial difficulties, or are otherwise unable to provide the equipment or services we need in a timely manner, at our specifications and at reasonable prices, our ability to provide some services might be materially adversely affected, or the need to procure or develop alternative sources of the affected materials or services might delay our ability to serve our customers.  These events could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain and attract customers, and have a material negative impact on our operations, business, financial results and financial condition.  A limited number of vendors of key technologies can lead to less product innovation and higher costs.  Our cable systems have historically been restricted to using one of two proprietary conditional access security systems, which we believe has limited the number of manufacturers producing set-top boxes for such systems.  As an alternative, Charter has developed a conditional access security system which may be downloaded into set-top boxes with features we specify that could be provided by a variety of manufacturers.  We refer to our specified set-top box as our Worldbox.  In order to realize the benefits of our Worldbox technology, we must now implement the conditional access security system across our video network.  We cannot provide assurances that this implementation will ultimately be successful or completed in the expected timeframe or at the expected budget. 
    
  We further depend on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and licenses to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights in technology and the products and services used in our operating activities. Any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged or invalidated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to continue to use certain intellectual property, which could result in discontinuance of certain product or service offerings or other competitive harm, our incurring substantial monetary liability or being enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question. 
    
  Various events could disrupt our networks, information systems or properties and could impair our operating activities and negatively impact our reputation. 
    
  Network and information systems technologies are critical to our operating activities, as well as our customers' access to our services.  We may be subject to information technology system failures and network disruptions.  Malicious and abusive activities, such as the dissemination of computer viruses, worms, and other destructive or disruptive software, computer hackings, social engineering, process breakdowns, denial of service attacks and other malicious activities have become more common in industry overall.  If directed at us or technologies upon which we depend, these activities could have adverse consequences on our network and our customers, including degradation of service, excessive call volume to call centers, and damage to our or our customers' equipment and data.  Further, these activities could result in security breaches, such as misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification or accidental release or loss of information maintained in our information technology systems and networks, and in our vendors  systems and networks, including customer, personnel and vendor data.  System failures and network disruptions may also be caused by natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions or telecommunications failures.  If a significant incident were to occur, it could damage our reputation and credibility, lead to customer dissatisfaction and, ultimately, loss of customers or revenue, in addition to increased costs to service our customers and protect our network. These events also could result in large expenditures to repair or replace the damaged properties, networks or information systems or to protect them from similar events in the future.   System redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities.  Any significant loss of customers or revenue, or significant increase in costs of serving those customers, could adversely affect our growth, financial condition and results of operations. 
    
  For tax purposes, we could experience a deemed ownership change in the future that could limit our ability to use our tax loss carryforwards.  
    
  As of   December 31, 2014  , we had approximately   $9.5 billion   of federal tax net operating loss carryforwards resulting in a gross deferred tax asset of approximately   $3.3 billion  . Federal tax net operating loss carryforwards expire in the years 2020 through  
      
   23 

2034. These losses resulted from the operations of Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries. In addition, as of   December 31, 2014  , we had state tax net operating loss carryforwards resulting in a gross deferred tax asset (net of federal tax benefit) of approximately   $321 million  . State tax net operating loss carryforwards generally expire in the years 2015 through 2034. Due to uncertainties in projected future taxable income, valuation allowances have been established against the gross deferred tax assets for book accounting purposes, except for future taxable income that will result from the reversal of existing temporary differences for which deferred tax liabilities are recognized. Such tax loss carryforwards can accumulate and be used to offset our future taxable income.  
    
  In the past, we have experienced  ownership changes  as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ).  In general, an  ownership change  occurs whenever the percentage of the stock of a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by  5-percent stockholders  (within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code) increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock of such corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by such  5-percent stockholders  at any time over the preceding three years. As a result, we are subject to an annual limitation on the use of our loss carryforwards which existed at November 30, 2009 for the first "ownership change" and those that existed at May 1, 2013 for the second "ownership change."  The limitation on our ability to use our loss carryforwards, in conjunction with the loss carryforward expiration provisions, could reduce our ability to use a portion of our loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income, which could result in us being required to make material cash tax payments.  Our ability to make such income tax payments, if any, will depend at such time on our liquidity or our ability to raise additional capital, and/or on receipt of payments or distributions from Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries.    
    
  If we were to experience a third ownership change in the future (as a result of purchases and sales of stock by our "5-percent stockholders," new issuances or redemptions of our stock, certain acquisitions of our stock and issuances, redemptions, sales or other dispositions or acquisitions of interests in our "5-percent stockholders"), our ability to use our loss carryforwards could become subject to further limitations.  Our common stock is subject to certain transfer restrictions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation.  These restrictions, which are designed to minimize the likelihood of an ownership change occurring and thereby preserve our ability to utilize our loss carryforwards, are not currently operative but could become operative in the future if certain events occur and the restrictions are imposed by our board of directors.  However, there can be no assurance that our board of directors would choose to impose these restrictions or that such restrictions, if imposed, would prevent an ownership change from occurring. 
    
  If we are unable to retain key employees, our ability to manage our business could be adversely affected.  
    
  Our operational results have depended, and our future results will depend, upon the retention and continued performance of our management team. Our ability to retain and hire new key employees for management positions could be impacted adversely by the competitive environment for management talent in the broadband communications industry. The loss of the services of key members of management and the inability or delay in hiring new key employees could adversely affect our ability to manage our business and our future operational and financial results.  
    
  Our inability to successfully acquire and integrate other businesses, assets, products or technologies could harm our operating results. 
    
  We continuously evaluate and pursue small and large acquisitions and strategic investments in businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our business or otherwise offer growth or cost-saving opportunities. From time to time, including in the near term, we may enter into letters of intent with companies with which we are negotiating for potential acquisitions or investments, or as to which we are conducting due diligence. An investment in, or acquisition of, complementary businesses, products or technologies in the future could materially decrease the amount of our available cash or require us to seek additional equity or debt financing. We may not be successful in negotiating the terms of any potential acquisition, conducting thorough due diligence, financing the acquisition or effectively integrating the acquired business, product or technology into our existing business and operations. Our due diligence may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology, including issues related to intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices, or employee or customer issues.  
    
  Additionally, in connection with any acquisitions we complete, we may not achieve the growth, synergies or other benefits we expected to achieve, and we may incur write-downs, impairment charges or unforeseen liabilities that could negatively affect our operating results or financial position or could otherwise harm our business. Further, contemplating or completing an acquisition and integrating an acquired business, product or technology, individually or across multiple opportunities, could divert management and employee time and resources from other matters. 

24 

Risks Related to Ownership Position of Liberty Broadband Corporation 
    
  Liberty Broadband Corporation owns a significant amount of Charter s common stock, giving it influence over corporate transactions and other matters. 
    
  Members of our board of directors include directors who are also officers and directors of our principal stockholder.  Dr. John Malone is the Chairman of Liberty Broadband Corporation, and Mr. Greg Maffei is the president and chief executive officer of Liberty Broadband Corporation.  As of   December 31, 2014  , Liberty Broadband Corporation beneficially held approximately 25.75% of our Class A common stock.  Liberty Broadband Corporation has the right to designate up to four directors as nominees for our board of directors through our 2015 annual meeting of stockholders with one designated director to be appointed to each of the Audit Committee, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the Compensation and Benefits Committee.  Liberty Broadband Corporation may be able to exercise substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate action, such as mergers and other business combination transactions should Liberty Broadband Corporation retain a significant ownership interest in us.  Liberty Broadband Corporation and its affiliates are not restricted from investing in, and have invested in, and engaged in, other businesses involving or related to the operation of cable television systems, video programming, Internet service, voice or business and financial transactions conducted through broadband interactivity and Internet services.  Liberty Broadband Corporation and its affiliates may also engage in other businesses that compete or may in the future compete with us. 
    
  Liberty Broadband Corporation's substantial influence over our management and affairs could create conflicts of interest if Liberty Broadband Corporation faced decisions that could have different implications for it and us.  
    
  Risks Related to the Transactions 
    
  As a result of the Transactions, current Charter stockholders  ownership interest in Charter will be diluted from 100% to approximately 92%.  
  Immediately following the Transactions, it is expected that the current stockholders of Charter, who presently own 100% of Charter, will own approximately 92% of the outstanding common stock of Charter.  The Transactions therefore will result in substantial dilution of the ownership interest of the current Charter stockholders.  Additionally, due to the ownership dilution, Charter s current stockholders as a group will be able to exercise less influence after the Transactions than they currently exercise over the management, operations and policies for Charter.  If GreatLand Connections raises less proceeds in the related financing Transactions than currently contemplated, Charter is obligated pursuant to the Merger Agreement and the financing arrangements to increase its stock consideration paid in the Charter Merger, which would further dilute existing Charter stockholders.  Also, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, if the price at which shares of Charter trade were to be lower during the 60 days leading up to the closing of the Transactions, Charter would have to issue more shares further diluting existing Charter stockholders.   
    
  Completion of the Transactions is subject to a number of conditions and if these conditions are not satisfied or waived, the Transactions will not be completed. 
    
  Our obligation and the obligation of Comcast to complete the Transactions are subject to satisfaction or waiver of a number of conditions, including, among others: 

completion of Comcast s acquisition of TWC; 
                
    expiration or termination of the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act ("HSR Act") waiting period and receipt of certain regulatory approvals for the Transactions, in most cases without the imposition of a burdensome condition; 
                
    unless not required under applicable law, approval by our stockholders; 
                
    receipt of opinions of counsel as to the tax-free nature of certain of the Transactions; 
                
    absence of injunction or legal impediment on any of the Transactions; 
                
    effectiveness of a registration statement for GreatLand Connections shares to be issued in the Transactions and approval for the listing on NASDAQ of the shares of GreatLand Connections  common stock to be issued in the Transactions; 
                
    effectiveness of the registration statement filed by CCH I, which will become New Charter upon the closing of the Transactions ("New Charter") and approval for listing on NASDAQ of the shares of New Charter s common stock; 
                
    accuracy of the representations and warranties with respect to each of the Transactions, subject to certain materiality thresholds; 
                
    performance of covenants with respect to each of the Transactions, subject to certain materiality thresholds; 
                
    with respect to Charter s obligations, absence of a material adverse change with respect to the assets and liabilities transferred to GreatLand Connections and the assets and liabilities transferred by Comcast to us, taken as a whole, and  
         
   25 

with respect to Comcast s obligations, absence of a material adverse change with respect to the assets and liabilities transferred by us to Comcast and absence of a material adverse effect with respect to us, and also with respect to Charter s obligations, absence of the assertion by Charter s financing sources of a material adverse effect with respect to us; and 
             
    completion of the debt-for-debt exchange contemplated in connection with the GreatLand Connections spin-off from Comcast. 
       
  There can be no assurance that the conditions to closing of the Transactions will be satisfied or waived or that the Transactions will be completed. 
    
  In order to complete the Transactions, we along with Comcast must obtain certain governmental authorizations, and if such authorizations are not granted or are granted with conditions to the parties, completion of the Transactions may be jeopardized or the anticipated benefits of the Transactions could be reduced. 
    
  Completion of the Transactions is conditioned upon the expiration or early termination of the waiting periods relating to the Transactions under the HSR Act and the required governmental authorizations, including an order of the FCC, having been obtained and being in full force and effect.  Although we and Comcast have agreed in the Transactions Agreement to use reasonable best efforts, subject to certain limitations, to obtain the required governmental authorizations, there can be no assurance that the relevant waiting periods will expire or that the relevant authorizations will be obtained.  In addition, the governmental authorities with or from which these authorizations are required have broad discretion in administering the governing regulations.  As a condition to authorization of the Transactions, these governmental authorities may impose requirements, limitations or costs or require divestitures or place restrictions on the conduct of our business after completion of the Transactions.  There can be no assurance that regulators will not impose conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions and that such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not have the effect of delaying completion of the Transactions or imposing additional material costs on or materially limiting the revenues of New Charter following the Transactions, or otherwise adversely affect our business and results of operations after completion of the Transactions.  In addition, we can provide no assurance that these conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not result in the delay or abandonment of the Transactions. 
    
  We have relied on publicly available information and ongoing diligence on the systems being acquired by Charter and by GreatLand Connections. 
    
  We have relied on publicly available information and ongoing diligence regarding the systems being acquired by Charter and by GreatLand Connections.  The Transactions accordingly provide for assumption by Charter and by GreatLand Connections of only those liabilities that are primarily related to the systems acquired by each of them respectively, and for valuation terms that will depend on actual Carveout 2014 EBITDA (as defined in the Transactions Agreement) produced by such systems, including true-up adjustment payments related to EBITDA and, in some cases, working capital.  However, it is possible that significant liabilities, present, future or contingent, may be assumed by Charter or GreatLand Connections that are not fully reflected in the valuation terms, and accordingly could have a material adverse effect on Charter and/or its investment in GreatLand Connections.  Similarly, it is possible that certain assets required to operate the systems acquired by GreatLand Connections and/or Charter, such as licenses, technologies and/or employees, may not be transferred in the Transactions, requiring GreatLand Connections and/or Charter to incur additional costs and invest additional resources to procure such assets and/or hire employees with expertise in the transferred business, which may adversely affect Charter s ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Transactions.  As we have already entered into the Agreement for the Transactions without any diligence conditions, our ongoing diligence is not expected to give rise to any material adjustments in the Transactions, and our ongoing diligence continues to focus on the transition of the to be acquired systems to our ownership or the provision of services in the case of GreatLand Connections. 
    
  We may not realize anticipated cost synergies and growth opportunities.  
  We expect that we will realize cost synergies, growth opportunities and other financial and operating benefits as a result of the Transactions.  Our success in realizing these cost synergies, growth opportunities and other financial and operating benefits, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of the business operations obtained in the Asset Exchange and the Asset Purchase and our ability to provide certain services to GreatLand Connections effectively pursuant to a services agreement.  Even if we are able to integrate the business operations obtained in the Asset Exchange and the Asset Purchase successfully, we cannot predict with certainty if or when these cost synergies, growth opportunities and benefits will occur, or the extent to which they actually will be achieved.  For example, the benefits from the Transactions may be offset by costs incurred in integrating the new business operations or in obtaining or attempting to obtain regulatory approvals for the Transactions, or negatively impacted by potential programming dis-synergies that we may experience as a result of the Transactions.  Realization of any benefits and cost synergies could be affected by the factors described in other risk factors and a number of factors beyond our control, including, without limitation, general economic conditions, increased operating costs, the response of competitors and regulatory developments.    
      
   26 

In addition, certain license and customer contracts which are required to be transferred to GreatLand Connections or Charter by Comcast require the consent of the licensor or customer party to the contract to effect this assignment.  Comcast, GreatLand Connections and Charter may be unable to obtain these consents on terms favorable to GreatLand Connections or Charter, respectively, or at all, which could have a material adverse impact on GreatLand Connections  (and hence on us) or on our business, financial condition and results of operations after the Transactions.  There can be no assurance that third-party consents will be obtained prior to completion of the Transactions or at all.  
    
  The integration of the business acquired in the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase with the businesses we operated prior to the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase may not be successful or the anticipated benefits from the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase may not be realized.  
    
  After consummation of the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase, we will have significantly more systems, assets, investments, businesses, customers and employees than we did prior to the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase.  The process of integrating these assets with the businesses we operated prior to the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase will require us to expend significant capital and significantly expand the scope of our operations and operating and financial systems.  Our management will be required to devote a significant amount of time and attention to the process of integrating the operations of the acquired assets with our operations before the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase.  There is a significant degree of difficulty and management involvement inherent in that process. These difficulties include: 

integrating the operations of the acquired assets while carrying on the ongoing operations of the businesses we operated prior to the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase;  
                
    integrating information, purchasing, provisioning, accounting, finance, sales, billing, payroll, reporting and regulatory compliance systems; 
                
    integrating and unifying the product offerings and services available to customers, including customer premise equipment and video user interfaces; 
                
    completing the conversion of analog systems to all-digital for the systems to be acquired; 
                
    managing a significantly larger company than before consummation of the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase;  
                
    integrating separate business cultures;  
                
    attracting and retaining the necessary personnel associated with the acquired assets; and 
                
    creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems and controlling the costs associated with such matters; and 
                
    the impact on our business of providing services to GreatLand Connections which will also face the foregoing difficulties. 
       
  Charter and Comcast have agreed to provide each other with transition services in connection with the transferred systems and relevant assets.  Providing such services could divert management attention and result in additional costs, particularly as Charter starts up infrastructure and staff to take over transition services and provides transition services to Comcast for former Charter systems.  In addition, the inability to procure such services could negatively impact our expected results of operations. 
    
  There is no assurance that the assets acquired in the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase will be successfully or cost-effectively integrated into the businesses we operated prior to the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase. The process of integrating the acquired assets into our operations prior to the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business.  If our management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer and our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted.  
    
  Even if we are able to successfully integrate the new assets, it may not be possible to realize the benefits that are expected to result from the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase, or realize these benefits within the time frame that is expected. For example, the elimination of duplicative costs may not be possible or may take longer than anticipated, or the benefits from the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase may be offset by costs incurred or delays in integrating the companies. Programming dis-synergies could also be larger than expected.  If we fail to realize the benefits we anticipate from the acquisition, our liquidity, results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected.  
    
  The value of our interests in GreatLand Connections following the Transactions may fluctuate from time to time based on factors beyond our control. 
  Following the Transactions, the value of our interests in GreatLand Connections will depend on GreatLand Connections  operational performance and fluctuations in its share price.  We will not control the management and operations of GreatLand Connections, and we will therefore not be able to prevent or address any decline in the operational performance or trading value of GreatLand Connections.  In addition, the operational performance and trading value of GreatLand Connections may be influenced by other  
      
   27 

factors outside our control, including risks resulting from the separation of the cable systems from Comcast; changes in earnings estimated by securities analysts or GreatLand Connections  ability to meet those estimates; and domestic and foreign economic conditions.  
    
  If the operating results for GreatLand Connections following the Transactions are poor, we may not achieve the increases in revenues and earnings per share that we expect as a result of the Transactions.  
  We have projected that we will derive a portion of our revenues and earnings per share from GreatLand Connections after the Transactions, through receipt of a services fee of 4.25% of GreatLand Connections  revenues pursuant to a services agreement.  In addition, we will record 33% of GreatLand Connections  net income, which will also have an impact on our operating results.  Therefore, any negative impact on GreatLand Connections or the operations of GreatLand Connections' business could harm our operating results.  Some of the significant factors that could harm GreatLand Connections and the operations of the GreatLand Connections' business, and therefore harm our future operating results after the Transactions, include competitive pressure from existing or new companies and a decline in the markets served by GreatLand Connections.  
    
  If the operating results of the TWC assets acquired in the Asset Exchange and the Asset Purchase are less than our expectations, or an increase in the capital expenditures to upgrade and maintain those assets as well as to keep pace with technological developments is necessary, Charter may not achieve the expected level of financial results from the Transactions.  
  We have projected that we will derive a portion of our revenues and earnings per share from the operation of the TWC assets that we will acquire in the Asset Exchange and the Asset Purchase.  Therefore, any negative impact on the TWC assets to be acquired by us or the operating results derived from such exchanged and purchased assets could harm our operating results.   
  Our business is characterized by rapid technological change and the introduction of new products and services.  We intend to make all-digital investments in the TWC assets acquired in the Asset Exchange and Asset Purchase and transition toward only using two-way interactive set-top boxes. The increase in capital expenditures necessary for the all-digital investment and the transition toward two-way set-top boxes in the TWC assets may negatively impact the expected financial results from the Transactions. We may not be able to fund the capital expenditures necessary to keep pace with technological developments, execute the plans to do so, or anticipate the demand of our customers for products and services requiring new technology or bandwidth.  Our inability to maintain, expand and upgrade our existing or acquired assets, including through all-digital initiatives for the TWC assets, could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 
  Because of high debt levels, we may not be able to service our debt obligations in accordance with our terms after the Transactions.  
  Our ability to meet our expense and debt service obligations contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in customer preferences, the success of product and marketing innovation and pressure from competitors.  Should our sales decline after the Transactions, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay our debt service obligations when due.  If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations after the Transactions or should we fail to comply with our financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness, we may be required to refinance all or part of our debt, sell important strategic assets at unfavorable prices or borrow more money.  We may not be able to, at any given time, refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us or at all.  Our inability to refinance our debt could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results from operations after the Transactions. 
    
  We may have difficulty attracting, motivating and retaining executives and other employees in light of the Transactions. 
  Uncertainty about the effect of the Transactions on our employees may have an adverse effect on us.  This uncertainty may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate personnel until the Transactions are completed.  Employee retention may be particularly challenging during the pendency of the Transactions, as employees may feel uncertain about their future roles with us after the Transactions.  If our employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration, our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Transactions could be reduced.  Similar challenges exist for us in retaining employees being transferred to Charter in the Transactions and in attracting any additional personnel we may need after the Transactions. 
  A delay in the completion of the Transactions may diminish the anticipated benefits of the Transactions.  
  Completion of the Transactions is conditioned upon the receipt of certain governmental consents and approvals, orders, authorizations, and rulings, including the expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period (or extension thereof) under the HSR Act and the adoption of an order by the FCC granting its consent to the transfer of control or assignment of certain licenses and authorizations issued by the FCC.  The requirement to receive these consents and approvals, orders, authorizations and rulings  
      
   28 

before the Transactions could delay the completion of the Transactions if, for example, government agencies request additional information from the parties in order to facilitate their review of the Transactions or require any conditions precedent to granting their approval of the Transactions.  In addition, these governmental agencies may attempt to condition their approval of the Transactions on the imposition of conditions that could have a material adverse effect on us after the Transactions, including but not limited to our operating results or the value of Charter Class A common stock.  Any delay in the completion of the Transactions could diminish the anticipated benefits of the Transactions or result in additional transaction costs, loss of revenue or other effects associated with uncertainty about the Transactions.  Any uncertainty over the ability of the companies to complete the Transactions could make it more difficult for us and GreatLand Connections to retain key employees or to pursue business strategies.  In addition, until the Transactions are completed, the attention of our management may be diverted from ongoing business concerns and regular business responsibilities to the extent management is focused on matters relating to the Transactions  .  
    
  Failure to complete the Transactions could negatively impact our stock price and our future business and financial results. 
    
  If the Transactions are not completed for any reason, our ongoing business may be adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the Transactions, we would be subject to a number of risks: 

We may experience negative reactions from the financial markets, including negative impacts on our stock price; 
                
    We may experience negative reactions from our customers, regulators and employees; 
                
    We may be required to pay significant costs relating to the Transactions, and will have paid significant costs related to the Transactions such as interest on the $7.0 billion of debt incurred to fund the Transactions; 
                
    The Transactions Agreement places certain restrictions on the conduct of our business with respect to our assets being transferred to Comcast prior to completion of the Transactions. Such restrictions, the waiver of which is subject to the consent of the other party (in certain cases, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), may have prevented us from taking certain specified actions or otherwise pursuing business opportunities during the pendency of the Transactions; and  
                
    Matters relating to the Transactions (including integration planning) will require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management and expenditures, which would otherwise have been devoted to day-to-day operations and other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us in the absence of the Transactions. 
       
  If the Transactions are not completed, the risks described above may materialize and they may adversely affect our business, financial condition, financial results and stock price. 
    
  In addition, we could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the Transactions or related to any enforcement proceeding commenced against us to perform our obligations under the Transactions Agreement.  
    
  If the Spin-Off does not qualify as a tax-free reorganization under Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Code, including as a result of subsequent acquisitions of stock of GreatLand Connections, then Comcast may recognize a very substantial amount of taxable gain and GreatLand Connections (and in certain circumstances, Charter) may be obligated to indemnify Comcast for these taxes.  
    
  The completion of the Transactions is conditioned upon the receipt of opinions from counsel as to the tax free nature of certain of the Transactions, including the Spin-Off.  The opinions of counsel will be based on, among other things, current law and certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by Comcast, GreatLand Connections and Charter.  Any change in currently applicable law, which may be retroactive, or the failure of any representation to be true, correct and complete, could adversely affect the conclusions reached by counsel in the opinions.  Moreover, the opinions will not be binding on the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) or the courts, and the IRS or the courts may not agree with the conclusions reached in the opinions.   
    
  Even if the Spin-Off otherwise qualifies as a tax-free spin-off for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Spin-Off will be taxable to Comcast pursuant to section 355(e) of the Code if 50% or more of the stock of either Comcast or GreatLand Connections is acquired, directly or indirectly (taking into account the stock of GreatLand Connections acquired by New Charter in the Merger and the stock of Comcast and GreatLand Connections acquired by TWC shareholders in the transaction between Comcast and TWC and in the Spin-Off), as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the Spin-Off. Because GreatLand Connections stockholders that are former Comcast shareholders (exclusive of former TWC shareholders) will own more than 50% of the common stock of GreatLand Connections following the Merger, the Merger standing alone is not expected to cause the Spin-Off to be taxable to Comcast under section 355(e) of the Code. However, if the IRS were to determine that other acquisitions of GreatLand Connections common stock or Comcast common stock, either before or after the Spin-Off are part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the Spin-Off, such determination could result in the recognition of gain by Comcast under section 355(e) of the Code. If section 355(e) of the Code applied, Comcast might recognize a very substantial amount of taxable gain.  
      
   29 

Under the tax sharing agreement that will be entered into by Comcast, GreatLand Connections and, to a limited extent, New Charter, in certain circumstances, and subject to certain limitations, GreatLand Connections will be required to indemnify Comcast against taxes on the Spin-Off that arise as a result of certain actions or failures to act by GreatLand Connections or as a result of certain changes in ownership of the stock of GreatLand Connections after the completion of the Transactions. GreatLand Connections will be unable to take certain actions after the Transactions because such actions could adversely affect the tax-free status of the Spin-Off, and such restrictions could be significant. If GreatLand Connections is required to indemnify Comcast in the event the Spin-Off is taxable, this indemnification obligation would be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on GreatLand Connections. 
    
  Moreover, under the tax sharing agreement, in certain circumstances, and subject to certain limitations, New Charter will be required to indemnify Comcast against taxes on the Spin-Off that arise from New Charter taking any actions that would result in New Charter holding GreatLand Connections shares in excess of the percentage of GreatLand Connections shares acquired in the Merger during the two year period following the Spin-Off.  If New Charter is required to indemnify Comcast in the event the Spin-Off is taxable, this indemnification obligation would be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on New Charter. 
    
  New Charter and GreatLand Connections will be unable to take certain actions after the Transactions because such actions could adversely affect the tax-free status of the Spin-Off, and such restrictions could be significant. 
  The tax sharing agreement will prohibit New Charter, Charter and GreatLand Connections from taking actions that could cause the Spin-Off to be taxable to Comcast.  In particular, for two years after the completion of the Transactions, New Charter and GreatLand Connections will not be permitted to take actions that would result in New Charter holding (or being treated as holding) GreatLand Connections shares in excess of the percentage of GreatLand Connections shares acquired by New Charter in the merger.  These actions could include entering into certain merger or consolidation transactions, certain stock issuances and certain other desirable strategic transactions. 
  Because of these restrictions, GreatLand Connections may be limited in the amount of stock that it can issue to make acquisitions or raise additional capital in the two years subsequent to the completion of the Charter Merger, which could have a material adverse effect on GreatLand Connections  liquidity and financial condition.   
  The tax sharing agreement will also provide that in certain circumstances, and subject to certain limitations, GreatLand Connections and New Charter will be required to indemnify Comcast against taxes on the Spin-Off that arise as a result of actions in violation of the prohibitions and limitations described above.  If GreatLand Connections or New Charter is required to indemnify Comcast in the event the Spin-Off is taxable, this indemnification obligation would be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on GreatLand Connections or New Charter, as applicable. 
    
  We will incur significant transaction-related costs in connection with the Transactions. 
    
  We expect to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with the Transactions before, at, and after closing the Transactions. We also will incur transaction fees and costs related to formulating and implementing integration plans, including facilities and systems implementation costs and employment-related costs. We continue to assess the magnitude of these costs, and additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the Transactions and integration. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, should allow us to offset integration-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all.  In addition, if the Transactions are not consummated, we would bear some or all of these costs without the benefit of efficiencies from the integration of the businesses. Such costs could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.  
    
  Sales of our common stock after the Transactions may negatively affect the market price of New Charter common stock.  
    
  The shares of our common stock to be issued in the Transactions to holders of GreatLand Connections common stock (initially, the Comcast shareholders) will generally be eligible for immediate resale.  The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market after the consummation of the Transactions or even the perception that these sales could occur.  
    
  Currently, Comcast shareholders may include index funds that have performance tied to the Standard   Poor s 500 Index or other stock indices, and institutional investors subject to various investing guidelines.  Because New Charter may not be included in these indices following the consummation of the Transactions or may not meet the investing guidelines of some of these institutional investors, these index funds and institutional investors may decide to or may be required to sell the common stock that they receive  
      
   30 

in the Transactions.  These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, may also make it more difficult for New Charter to obtain additional capital by selling equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that it deems appropriate.  
    
  Risks Related to Regulatory and Legislative Matters  
    
  Our business is subject to extensive governmental legislation and regulation, which could adversely affect our business. 
    
  Regulation of the cable industry has increased cable operators' operational and administrative expenses and limited their revenues.  Cable operators are subject to various laws and regulations including those covering the following: 

the provisioning and marketing of cable equipment and compatibility with new digital technologies; 
                
    subscriber and employee privacy and data security; 
                
    limited rate regulation of video service; 
                
    copyright royalties for retransmitting broadcast signals; 
                
    when a cable system must carry a particular broadcast station and when it must first obtain retransmission consent to carry a broadcast station; 
                
    the provision of channel capacity to unaffiliated commercial leased access programmers; 
                
    limitations on our ability to enter into exclusive agreements with multiple dwelling unit complexes and control our inside wiring; 
                
    the provision of high-speed Internet service, including net neutrality rules; 
                
    the provision of voice communications; 
                
    cable franchise renewals and transfers;  
                
    equal employment opportunity, emergency alert systems, disability access, technical standards, marketing practices, customer service, and consumer protection; and 
                
    approval for mergers and acquisitions often accompanied by the imposition of restrictions and requirements on an applicant's business in order to secure approval of the proposed transaction. 
       
  Additionally, many aspects of these laws and regulations are often the subject of judicial proceedings and administrative or legislative proposals.  There are also ongoing efforts to amend or expand the federal, state, and local regulation of some of the services offered over our cable systems, which may compound the regulatory risks we already face, and proposals that might make it easier for our employees to unionize.  Some states are considering adopting energy efficiency regulations governing the operation of equipment (such as broadband modems) that we use to deliver Internet services, which could constrain innovation in broadband services and equipment.  Congress is considering whether to rewrite the entire Communications Act to account for changes in the communications marketplace.  Congress and various federal agencies are also considering more focused changes, such as new privacy restrictions and new restrictions on the use of personal and profiling information for behavioral advertising.  In response to recent global data breaches, malicious activity and cyber threats, as well as the general increasing concerns regarding the protection of consumers  personal information, Congress and various federal agencies are also considering the adoption of new data security and cybersecurity legislation and regulation that could result in additional network and information security requirements for our business. These new laws, as well as existing legal and regulatory obligations, could affect our operations and require significant expenditures.  In addition, federal, state, and local regulators could deny necessary approval of the Transactions or impose additional regulatory conditions in connection with their review of the Transactions that could affect our operations. 
    
  Our cable system franchises are subject to non-renewal or termination. The failure to renew a franchise in one or more key markets could adversely affect our business. 
    
  Our cable systems generally operate pursuant to franchises, permits, and similar authorizations issued by a state or local governmental authority controlling the public rights-of-way.  Many franchises establish comprehensive facilities and service requirements, as well as specific customer service standards and monetary penalties for non-compliance.  In many cases, franchises are terminable if the franchisee fails to comply with significant provisions set forth in the franchise agreement governing system operations.  Franchises are generally granted for fixed terms and must be periodically renewed.  Franchising authorities may resist granting a renewal if either past performance or the prospective operating proposal is considered inadequate.  Franchise authorities often demand concessions or other commitments as a condition to renewal.  In some instances, local franchises have not been renewed at expiration, and we have operated and are operating under either temporary operating agreements or without a franchise while negotiating renewal terms with the local franchising authorities. 
    
  The traditional cable franchising regime has recently undergone significant change as a result of various federal and state actions.  Some state franchising laws do not allow incumbent operators like us to opt into favorable statewide franchising as quickly as  
      
   31 

new entrants, and often require us to retain certain franchise obligations that are more burdensome than those applied to new entrants.   
    
  We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all significant provisions of our franchise agreements and certain of our franchisers have from time to time alleged that we have not complied with these agreements.  Additionally, although historically we have renewed our franchises without incurring significant costs, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew, or to renew as favorably, our franchises in the future.  A termination of or a sustained failure to renew a franchise in one or more key markets could adversely affect our business in the affected geographic area. 
    
  Our cable system franchises are non-exclusive. Accordingly, local and state franchising authorities can grant additional franchises and create additional competition for our products, resulting in overbuilds, which could adversely affect results of operations. 
    
  Our cable system franchises are non-exclusive.  Consequently, local and state franchising authorities can grant additional franchises to competitors in the same geographic area or operate their own cable systems.  In some cases, local government entities and municipal utilities may legally compete with us on more favorable terms.  As a result, competing operators may build systems in areas in which we hold franchises. 
    
  The FCC has adopted rules that streamline entry for new competitors (particularly those affiliated with telephone companies) and reduce franchising burdens for these new entrants.  At the same time, a substantial number of states have adopted new franchising laws, principally designed to streamline entry for new competitors, and often provide advantages for these new entrants that are not immediately available to existing operators.  Broadband delivery of video content is not necessarily subject to the same franchising obligations applicable to our traditional cable systems. 
    
  The FCC administers a program that collects Universal Service Fund contributions from telecommunications service providers and uses them to subsidize the provision of telecommunications services in high-cost areas and to low-income consumers and the provision of Internet and telecommunications services to schools, libraries and certain health care providers.  A variety of regulatory changes may lead the FCC to expand the collection of Universal Service Fund contributions to encompass Internet service providers.   
  The FCC already has begun to redirect the expenditure of some Universal Service Funding to broadband deployment in ways that could assist competitors in competing with our services.  
    
  Local franchise authorities have the ability to impose additional regulatory constraints on our business, which could further increase our expenses. 
    
  In addition to the franchise agreement, cable authorities in some jurisdictions have adopted cable regulatory ordinances that further regulate the operation of cable systems.  This additional regulation increases the cost of operating our business.  Local franchising authorities may impose new and more restrictive requirements.  Local franchising authorities who are certified to regulate rates in the communities where they operate generally have the power to reduce rates and order refunds on the rates charged for basic service and equipment. 
    
  Tax legislation and administrative initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.     
    
  We operate cable systems in locations throughout the United States and, as a result, we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of federal, state and local governments. From time to time, various legislative and/or administrative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. Certain states and localities have imposed or are considering imposing new or additional taxes or fees on our services or changing the methodologies or base on which certain fees and taxes are computed.  The federal Internet Tax Freedom Act, which prohibits many taxes on Internet access service, will expire October 1, 2015, unless it is renewed by Congress. Potential changes include additional taxes or fees on our services which could impact our customers, combined reporting and other changes to general business taxes, central/unit-level assessment of property taxes and other matters that could increase our income, franchise, sales, use and/or property tax liabilities. In addition, federal, state and local tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. 

32 

Further regulation of the cable industry could impair our ability to raise rates to cover our increasing costs, resulting in increased losses. 
    
  Currently, rate regulation of cable systems is strictly limited to the basic service tier and associated equipment and installation activities.  However, the FCC and Congress continue to be concerned that cable rate increases are exceeding inflation.  It is possible that either the FCC or Congress will further restrict the ability of cable system operators to implement rate increases for our video services or even for our high-speed Internet and voice services.  Should this occur, it would impede our ability to raise our rates.  If we are unable to raise our rates in response to increasing costs, our losses would increase. 
    
  There has been legislative and regulatory interest in requiring companies that own multiple cable networks to make each of them available on a standalone, rather than a bundled basis to cable operators, and in requiring cable operators to offer historically bundled programming services on an   la carte basis to consumers.   While any new regulation or legislation designed to enable cable operators to purchase programming on a standalone basis could be beneficial to Charter, any regulation or legislation that limits how we sell programming could adversely affect our business. 
    
  Actions by pole owners might subject us to significantly increased pole attachment costs. 
    
  Pole attachments are cable wires that are attached to utility poles.  Cable system attachments to investor-owned public utility poles historically have been regulated at the federal or state level, generally resulting in favorable pole attachment rates for attachments used to provide cable service.  In contrast, utility poles owned by municipalities or cooperatives are not subject to federal regulation and are generally exempt from state regulation.  In 2011, the FCC amended its pole attachment rules to promote broadband deployment.  The order overall strengthens the cable industry's ability to access investor-owned utility poles on reasonable rates, terms and conditions.  It also allows for new penalties in certain cases involving unauthorized attachments that could result in additional costs for cable operators.  The new rules were affirmed in 2013.   Future regulatory changes in this area could impact the pole attachment rates we pay utility companies. 
    
  Increasing regulation of our Internet service product could adversely affect our ability to provide new products and services. 
    
  On May 15, 2014, the FCC initiated a rulemaking to issue new "network neutrality" regulations, potentially including a reclassification of broadband services as Title II common carrier services, which could subject our services to far more extensive and burdensome federal and state regulation.  On February 4, 2015, the Chairman of the FCC released a fact sheet describing his proposed new rules. The Chairman s proposal reclassifies wireline and wireless broadband services as Title II common carrier services. The new rules would prohibit ISPs from engaging in blocking, throttling, and paid prioritization, and the existing transparency rules compelling the disclosure of network management policies would be enhanced. The FCC would also have authority under the proposed rules to hear complaints and take enforcement action if it determines that the interconnection of ISPs are not just and reasonable, or if ISPs fail to meet a new general obligation not to harm consumers or edge providers. We do not know at the current time whether the regulations proposed by the Chairman will be adopted by the full Commission at a meeting scheduled for February 26, 2015, whether any rules adopted actually will go into effect or be struck down by a legal appeal, or how any new rules actually would be administered by the FCC, but such rules could limit our ability to efficiently manage our cable systems and respond to operational and competitive challenges.  
    
  Changes in channel carriage regulations could impose significant additional costs on us. 
    
  Cable operators also face significant regulation of their video channel carriage.  We can be required to devote substantial capacity to the carriage of programming that we might not carry voluntarily, including certain local broadcast signals; local public, educational and governmental access ( PEG ) programming; and unaffiliated, commercial leased access programming (required channel capacity for use by persons unaffiliated with the cable operator who desire to distribute programming over a cable system). The FCC adopted revised commercial leased access rules which would dramatically reduce the rate we can charge for leasing this capacity and dramatically increase our administrative burdens, but these remain stayed while under appeal.  Legislation has been introduced in Congress in the past that, if adopted, could impact our carriage of broadcast signals by simultaneously eliminating the cable industry s compulsory copyright license and the retransmission consent requirements governing cable s retransmission of broadcast signals. The FCC also continues to consider changes to the rules affecting the relationship between programmers (including broadcasters) and multichannel video distributors.   Future regulatory changes could disrupt existing programming commitments, interfere with our preferred use of limited channel capacity, increase our programming costs, and limit our ability to offer services that would maximize our revenue potential.  It is possible that other legal restraints will be adopted limiting our discretion over programming decisions. 

33 

Our voice service is subject to regulatory burdens which may increase, causing us to incur additional costs. 
    
  We offer voice communications services over our broadband network using VoIP services. The FCC has ruled that competitive telephone companies that support VoIP services, such as those we offer our customers, are entitled to interconnect with incumbent providers of traditional telecommunications services, which ensures that our VoIP services can compete in the market.  The scope of these interconnection rights are being reviewed in a current FCC proceeding, which may affect our ability to compete in the provision of voice services or result in additional costs.  The FCC has also declared that certain VoIP services are not subject to traditional state public utility regulation. The full extent of the FCC preemption of state and local regulation of VoIP services is not yet clear. Telecommunications companies generally are subject to other significant regulation which could also be extended to VoIP providers. If additional telecommunications regulations are applied to our VoIP service, it could cause us to incur additional costs.  The FCC has already extended certain traditional telecommunications carrier requirements to many VoIP providers such as us, including E911, Universal Service fund collection, CALEA, privacy of Customer Proprietary Network Information, number porting, network outage reporting, rural call completion reporting, disability access and discontinuance of service requirements. In November 2011, the FCC released an order significantly changing the rules governing intercarrier compensation payments for the origination and termination of telephone traffic between carriers, including VoIP service providers like us. The United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit upheld the rules in May 2014. The new rules will result in a substantial decrease in intercarrier compensation payments over a multi-year period. We received intercarrier compensation of approximately   $23 million  ,   $21 million   and   $19 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively.  
    
    Item 1B.   Unresolved Staff Comments  . 
    
  None. 
    
    Item 2.    Properties.    
    
  Our principal physical assets consist of cable distribution plant and equipment, including signal receiving, encoding and decoding devices, headend reception facilities, distribution systems, and customer premise equipment for each of our cable systems.  
    
  Our cable plant and related equipment are generally attached to utility poles under pole rental agreements with local public utilities and telephone companies, and in certain locations are buried in underground ducts or trenches.  We own or lease real property for signal reception sites, and own our service vehicles. 
    
  Our subsidiaries generally lease space for business offices. Our headend and tower locations are located on owned or leased parcels of land, and we generally own the towers on which our equipment is located.  Charter Holdco owns the land and building for our St. Louis corporate office.  We lease space for our offices in Denver, Colorado and for our corporate headquarters in Stamford, Connecticut. 
    
  The physical components of our cable systems require maintenance as well as periodic upgrades to support the new services and products we introduce.  See  Item 1. Business   Our Network Technology.   We believe that our properties are generally in good operating condition and are suitable for our business operations.  
    
    Item 3.    Legal Proceedings.     
    
  On January 15, 2014, the California Department of Justice, in conjunction with the Alameda County, California District Attorney s Office, initiated an investigation into whether Charter s waste disposal policies, practices, and procedures violate the provisions of the California Health and Safety Code, the California Hazardous Waste Control Law, and any of their related regulations.  Charter is cooperating with the investigation.  At this time Charter does not expect that its outcome will have a material effect on our operations, financial condition, or cash flows. 
    
  Patent Litigation 
    
  We are defendants or co-defendants in several unrelated lawsuits involving alleged infringement of various patents relating to various aspects of our businesses.  Other industry participants are also defendants in certain of these cases. 
    
  In the event that a court ultimately determines that we infringe on any intellectual property rights, we may be subject to substantial damages and/or an injunction that could require us or our vendors to modify certain products and services we offer to our subscribers, as well as negotiate royalty or license agreements with respect to the patents at issue.  While we believe the lawsuits are without merit and intend to defend the actions vigorously, no assurance can be given that any adverse outcome would not be material to our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. 
      
   34 

Other Proceedings 
    
  We are party to other lawsuits and claims that arise in the ordinary course of conducting our business, including lawsuits claiming violation of anti-trust laws and violation of wage and hour laws.  The ultimate outcome of these other legal matters pending against us or our subsidiaries cannot be predicted, and although such lawsuits and claims are not expected individually to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity, such lawsuits could have in the aggregate a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.  Whether or not we ultimately prevail in any particular lawsuit or claim, litigation can be time consuming and costly and injure our reputation. 
    
    Item 4.    Mine Safety Disclosures. 
    
  Not applicable. 

35 

PART II 
    
    Item 5.    Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.    
    
           (A) 
    Market Information    
       
  Charter s Class A common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol  CHTR.    

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the range of high and low last reported sale price per share of Charter s Class A common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market.   
    
  Class A Common Stock    

(B) 
    Holders    
       
  As of   December 31, 2014  , there were approximately 38 holders of record of Charter s Class A common stock.  
    
           (C) 
    Dividends    
       
  Charter has not paid stock or cash dividends on any of its common stock.   
    
  Charter would be dependent on distributions from its subsidiaries if Charter were to make any dividends.  Covenants in the indentures and credit agreement governing the debt obligations of our subsidiaries restrict their ability to make distributions to us, and accordingly, limit our ability to declare or pay cash dividends.  See  Part II. Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   Future cash dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of Charter s board of directors and will depend upon, among other things, our future operations and earnings, capital requirements, general financial condition, contractual restrictions and such other factors as Charter s board of directors may deem relevant. 

36 

(D)  Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans 
    
  The following information is provided as of   December 31, 2014   with respect to equity compensation plans:  
    
                                       Plan Category 
      
    Number of Securities to be Issued Upon Exercise of Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights 
      
    Weighted Average Exercise Price of Outstanding Warrants and Rights 
      
    Number of Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans 

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 
      
    4,014,471 
      
    (1) 
      
    $ 
    87.72 

6,181,469 
      
    (1) 
      Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders 

$ 

TOTAL 
      
    4,014,471 
      
    (1) 

6,181,469 
      
    (1) 

(1) 
    This total does not include 430,942 shares issued pursuant to restricted stock grants made under our 2009 Stock Incentive Plan, which are subject to vesting based on continued employment and market conditions.  
       
  For information regarding securities issued under our equity compensation plans, see Note 15 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.   

37 

(E)  Performance Graph 
    
  The graph below shows the cumulative total return on Charter s Class A common stock for the period from December 2, 2009 through   December 31, 2014  , in comparison to the cumulative total return on Standard   Poor s 500 Index and a peer group consisting of the national cable operators that are most comparable to us in terms of size and nature of operations. The Company s peer group consists of Cablevision Systems Corporation ("Cablevision"), Comcast, and TWC.  The results shown assume that $100 was invested on December 2, 2009 in Charter and peer group stock or on November 30, 2009 for the S P 500 index and that all dividends were reinvested. These indices are included for comparative purposes only and do not reflect whether it is management s opinion that such indices are an appropriate measure of the relative performance of the stock involved, nor are they intended to forecast or be indicative of future performance of Charter s Class A common stock.  

(F)  Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities    
    
  During   2014  , there were no unregistered sales of securities of the registrant other than those previously reported on a Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or Current Report on Form 8-K. 

38 

(G)      Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer 
    
  The following table presents Charter's purchases of equity securities completed during the fourth quarter of   2014   representing shares withheld from employees for the payment of taxes upon the vesting of equity awards. 

Item 6.    Selected Financial Data  .    
    
  The following table presents selected consolidated financial data for the periods indicated (dollars in millions, except per share data):  

(a) 
    Earnings include income (loss) before non-controlling interest and income taxes plus fixed charges.  Fixed charges consist of interest expense and an estimated interest component of rent expense.   
       
  Comparability of the above information from year to year is affected by acquisitions and dispositions completed by us including the acquisition of Bresnan in July 2013 and restricted cash and cash equivalents currently held in escrow pending consummation of the Transactions.  See  Part II. Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   
    
    Item 7.    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.    
    
  Reference is made to  Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors  and  Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,  which describe important factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations and non-historical information contained herein.  In addition, the following discussion should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and  
      
   39 

accompanying notes thereto of Charter Communications, Inc. and subsidiaries included in  Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
    
  Overview 
    
  We are a cable operator providing services in the United States with approximately   6.2 million   residential and commercial customers at   December 31, 2014  .  We offer our customers traditional cable video programming, Internet services, and voice services, as well as advanced video services such as video on demand, HD television and DVR service.  We also sell local advertising on cable networks and provide fiber connectivity to cellular towers.  See  Part I. Item 1. Business   Products and Services  for further description of these services, including  customers.   
    
  Our most significant competitors are DBS providers and certain telephone companies that offer services that provide features and functions similar to our video, high-speed Internet, and voice services, including in some cases wireless services, and they also offer these services in bundles similar to ours.  Customers have been more willing to consider our competitors' products, partially because of increased marketing highlighting perceived differences between competitive video products, especially when those competitors are often offering significant incentives to switch providers. Some consumers have chosen to receive video over the Internet rather than through pay television services including from us, thereby reducing our video revenues.  See  Part I. Item 1. Business   Competition.   In the recent past, we have grown revenues by offsetting basic video customer losses with price increases and sales of incremental services such as high-speed Internet, video on demand, DVR and HD television.  We expect to continue to grow revenues by increasing the number of products in our current customer homes and obtaining new customers with an improved value offering.  In addition, we expect to increase revenues by expanding the sales of services to our commercial customers.  However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to grow revenues or maintain our margins at recent historical rates. 
    
  Our business plans include goals for increasing customers and revenue. To reach our goals, we have actively invested in our network and operations, and have improved the quality and value of the products and packages that we offer. We have enhanced our video product by moving to an all-digital platform, offering more HD channels and increasing digital and HD-DVR penetration.  We simplified our offers and pricing and improved our packaging of products to bring more value to new and existing customers. As part of our effort to create more value for customers, we have focused on driving penetration of our triple play offering, which includes more than 200 HD channels in most of our markets, video on demand, Internet service, and fully-featured voice service. In addition, we have implemented a number of changes to our organizational structure, selling methods and operating tactics. We have fully insourced our direct sales workforce and are increasingly insourcing our field operations and call center workforces and modifying the way our sales workforce is compensated, which we believe positions us for better customer service and growth. We expect that our enhanced product set combined with improved customer service will lead to lower customer churn and longer customer lifetimes, allowing us to grow our customer base and revenue more quickly and economically. We expect our capital expenditures to remain elevated as we strive to increase digital and HD-DVR penetration and place higher levels of customer premise equipment per transaction. 
    
  In July 2013, Charter and Charter Operating acquired Bresnan from a wholly owned subsidiary of Cablevision, for $1.625 billion in cash, as well as a working capital adjustment and a reduction for certain funded indebtedness of Bresnan (the "Bresnan Acquisition").  Bresnan managed cable operating systems in Colorado, Montana, Wyoming and Utah that passed approximately 670,000 homes and served approximately 375,000 residential and commercial customer relationships at the time they were acquired. 
    
  Total revenue growth was   12%   for the year ended   December 31, 2014   compared to the corresponding period in   2013  , and   9%   for the year ended   December 31, 2013   compared to the corresponding period in   2012  , due to the Bresnan Acquisition and growth in our video, Internet and commercial businesses.  Total revenue growth on a pro forma basis for the Bresnan Acquisition as if it had occurred on January 1, 2012 was   8%   for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the corresponding period in 2013, and   5%   for the year ended   December 31, 2013   compared to the corresponding period in   2012  .  For the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , Adjusted EBITDA was   $3.2 billion  ,    $2.9 billion   and   $2.7 billion  , respectively.  Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net loss plus net interest expense, income tax expense, depreciation and amortization, stock compensation expense, loss on extinguishment of debt, gain (loss) on derivative instruments, net, and other operating expenses, such as merger and acquisition costs, special charges and (gain) loss on sale or retirement of assets.  See   Use of Adjusted EBITDA and Free Cash Flow  for further information on Adjusted EBITDA.  Adjusted EBITDA increased   12%   for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the corresponding period in 2013 and   6%   for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to the corresponding period in 2012 as a result of the Bresnan Acquisition, which contributed $96 million and $90 million, respectively, and an increase in residential and commercial revenues offset by increases in programming costs and other operating costs.  For the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , our income from operations was   $971 million  ,   $909 million   and   $915 million  , respectively.  In addition to the factors discussed above, income from operations was affected by increases in depreciation and amortization primarily due to the Bresnan Acquisition and current capital expenditures.    
      
   40 

In connection with the Transactions, in 2014 we have incurred approximately $14 million in operating costs and expenses and $27 million of capital expenditures related to incremental transition costs required to position Charter to double its service footprint.  We also incurred $38 million of incremental expenses related to advisory, legal and accounting fees which are reflected in other operating expenses, as well as approximately $75 million of interest expense associated with term loan G that was entered into in September 2014 and the issuance of the CCOH Safari Notes in November 2014. See "Part I. Item 1. Business   Transactions with Comcast." 
    
  Approximately 90%, 89% and 87% of our revenues for years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively, are attributable to monthly subscription fees charged to customers for our video, Internet, voice, and commercial services provided by our cable systems.  Generally, these customer subscriptions may be discontinued by the customer at any time subject to a fee for certain commercial customers.  The remaining 10%, 11% and 13% of revenue for fiscal years   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively, is derived primarily from advertising revenues, franchise and other regulatory fee revenues (which are collected by us but then paid to local authorities), pay-per-view and video on demand programming, installation, processing fees or reconnection fees charged to customers to commence or reinstate service, and commissions related to the sale of merchandise by home shopping services.  
    
  Our expenses primarily consist of operating costs, depreciation and amortization expense and interest expense.  Operating costs primarily include programming costs, connectivity, franchise and other regulatory costs, the cost to service our customers such as field, network and customer operations costs and marketing costs.     
    
  We have a history of net losses.  Our net losses are principally attributable to insufficient revenue to cover the combination of operating expenses, interest expenses that we incur because of our debt, depreciation expenses resulting from the capital investments we have made and continue to make in our cable properties, amortization expenses related to our customer relationship intangibles and non-cash taxes resulting from increases in our deferred tax liabilities.   
    
  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates    
    
  Certain of our accounting policies require our management to make difficult, subjective and/or complex judgments. Management has discussed these policies with the Audit Committee of Charter s board of directors, and the Audit Committee has reviewed the following disclosure.  We consider the following policies to be the most critical in understanding the estimates, assumptions and judgments that are involved in preparing our financial statements, and the uncertainties that could affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows:  

Property, plant and equipment 
                
    Capitalization of labor and overhead costs 
                
    Valuation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 
                
    Useful lives of property, plant and equipment 
                
    Intangible assets 
                
    Valuation and impairment of franchises 
                
    Valuation and impairment and amortization of customer relationships 
                
    Valuation and impairment of goodwill 
                
    Impairment of trademarks 
                
    Income taxes 
                
    Litigation 
                
    Programming agreements 
       
  In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimates or judgment that are not deemed critical, such as the allowance for doubtful accounts and valuations of our derivative instruments, but changes in estimates or judgment in these other items could also have a material impact on our financial statements.  
    
  Property, plant and equipment 
    
  The cable industry is capital intensive, and a large portion of our resources are spent on capital activities associated with extending, rebuilding, and upgrading our cable network.  As of   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , the net carrying amount of our property, plant and equipment (consisting primarily of cable network assets) was approximately   $8.4 billion   (representing   34%   of total assets) and   $8.0 billion   (representing   46%   of total assets), respectively.  Total capital expenditures for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012   were approximately   $2.2 billion  ,   $1.8 billion   and   $1.7 billion  , respectively.   

41 

Capitalization of labor and overhead costs.    Costs associated with network construction, initial customer installations, installation refurbishments, and the addition of network equipment necessary to provide new or advanced video services, are capitalized.  While our capitalization is based on specific activities, once capitalized, we track these costs by fixed asset category at the cable system level, and not on a specific asset basis.  For assets that are sold or retired, we remove the estimated applicable cost and accumulated depreciation.  Costs capitalized as part of initial customer installations include materials, direct labor, and certain indirect costs.  These indirect costs are associated with the activities of personnel who assist in connecting and activating the new service, and consist of compensation and overhead costs associated with these support functions.  The costs of disconnecting service at a customer s dwelling or reconnecting service to a previously installed dwelling are charged to operating expense in the period incurred.  Costs for repairs and maintenance are charged to operating expense as incurred, while equipment replacement, including replacement of certain components, and betterments, including replacement of cable drops from the pole to the dwelling, are capitalized.  
    
  We make judgments regarding the installation and construction activities to be capitalized.  We capitalize direct labor and overhead using standards developed from actual costs and applicable operational data.  We calculate standards annually (or more frequently if circumstances dictate) for items such as the labor rates, overhead rates, and the actual amount of time required to perform a capitalizable activity.  For example, the standard amounts of time required to perform capitalizable activities are based on studies of the time required to perform such activities.  Overhead rates are established based on an analysis of the nature of costs incurred in support of capitalizable activities, and a determination of the portion of costs that is directly attributable to capitalizable activities.  The impact of changes that resulted from these studies were not material in the periods presented. 
    
  Labor costs directly associated with capital projects are capitalized.  Capitalizable activities performed in connection with customer installations include such activities as:  

dispatching a  truck roll  to the customer s dwelling or business for service connection; 
                
    verification of serviceability to the customer s dwelling or business (i.e., determining whether the customer s dwelling is capable of receiving service by our cable network and/or receiving advanced or Internet services); 
                
    customer premise activities performed by in-house field technicians and third-party contractors in connection with customer installations, installation of network equipment in connection with the installation of advanced services, and equipment replacement and betterment; and 
                
    verifying the integrity of the customer s network connection by initiating test signals downstream from the headend to the customer s digital set-top box. 
       
  Judgment is required to determine the extent to which overhead costs incurred result from specific capital activities, and therefore should be capitalized.  The primary costs that are included in the determination of the overhead rate are (i) employee benefits and payroll taxes associated with capitalized direct labor, (ii) direct variable costs associated with capitalizable activities, consisting primarily of installation and construction vehicle costs, (iii) the cost of support personnel, such as dispatchers, who directly assist with capitalizable installation activities, and (iv) indirect costs directly attributable to capitalizable activities.  
    
  While we believe our existing capitalization policies are appropriate, a significant change in the nature or extent of our system activities could affect management s judgment about the extent to which we should capitalize direct labor or overhead in the future.  We monitor the appropriateness of our capitalization policies, and perform updates to our internal studies on an ongoing basis to determine whether facts or circumstances warrant a change to our capitalization policies.  We capitalized internal direct labor and overhead of $277 million, $219 million and $202 million, respectively, for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  .   
    
  Valuation and impairment.    We evaluate the recoverability of our property, plant and equipment upon the occurrence of events or changes in circumstances indicating that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.  Such events or changes in circumstances could include such factors as the impairment of our indefinite life franchises, changes in technological advances, fluctuations in the fair value of such assets, adverse changes in relationships with local franchise authorities, adverse changes in market conditions, or a deterioration of current or expected future operating results.  A long-lived asset is deemed impaired when the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the projected undiscounted future cash flows associated with the asset.  No impairments of long-lived assets to be held and used were recorded in the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  .  
    
  We utilize the cost approach as the primary method used to establish fair value for our property, plant and equipment in connection with business combinations.  The cost approach considers the amount required to replace an asset by constructing or purchasing a new asset with similar utility, then adjusts the value in consideration of all forms of depreciation as of the appraisal date for physical depreciation and function and economic obsolescence.  The cost approach relies on management s assumptions regarding current material and labor costs required to rebuild and repurchase significant components of our property, plant and equipment along with assumptions regarding the age and estimated useful lives of our property, plant and equipment.  

42 

Useful lives of property, plant and equipment.    We evaluate the appropriateness of estimated useful lives assigned to our property, plant and equipment, based on annual analysis of such useful lives, and revise such lives to the extent warranted by changing facts and circumstances.  Any changes in estimated useful lives as a result of this analysis are reflected prospectively beginning in the period in which the study is completed.  Our analysis of useful lives in   2014   did not indicate a change in useful lives.  The effect of a one-year decrease in the weighted average remaining useful life of our property, plant and equipment as of   December 31, 2014   would be an increase in annual depreciation expense of approximately $83 million.  The effect of a one-year increase in the weighted average remaining useful life of our property, plant and equipment as of   December 31, 2014   would be a decrease in annual depreciation expense of approximately $224 million. 
    
  Depreciation expense related to property, plant and equipment totaled $1.8 billion, $1.6 billion and $1.4 billion for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively, representing approximately 22%, 22% and 21% of costs and expenses, respectively.  Depreciation is recorded using the straight-line composite method over management s estimate of the useful lives of the related assets as listed below:  
    
                   Cable distribution systems             
      
    7-20 years 
      Customer equipment and installations       .. 
      
    3-8 years 
      Vehicles and equipment              
      
    3-6 years 
      Buildings and leasehold improvements        
      
    15-40 years 
      Furniture, fixtures and equipment .         
      
    6-10 years 

Intangible assets  
    
  Valuation and impairment of franchises.     The net carrying value of franchises as of   December 31, 2014   and   2013   was approximately   $6.0 billion   (representing   24%   of total assets) and   $6.0 billion   (representing   35%   of total assets), respectively.  For more information and a complete discussion of how we test franchise assets for impairment, see Note 6 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in  Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
    
  In 2014, 2013 and 2012, we concluded that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the franchise assets in each unit of accounting exceeds the carrying value of such assets and therefore did not perform a quantitative analysis.  At our last quantitative assessment, the fair value of franchises exceeded the book values for each unit of accounting by 24% to 89%.  
    
  Valuation and impairment of goodwill.     The net carrying value of goodwill as of   December 31, 2014   and   2013   was approximately   $1.2 billion   (representing   5%   of total assets) and   $1.2 billion   (representing   7%   of total assets), respectively.  For more information and a complete discussion on our valuation methodology, see Note 6 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in  Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
    
  As with our franchise impairment testing, in 2014, 2013 and 2012, we elected to perform a qualitative assessment for our goodwill impairment testing and concluded that our goodwill is not impaired.  
    
  Valuation, impairment and amortization of customer relationships.     The net carrying value of customer relationships as of   December 31, 2014   and   2013   was approximately   $1.1 billion   (representing   5%   of total assets) and   $1.4 billion   (representing   8%   of total assets), respectively.  Amortization expense related to customer relationships for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012   was approximately $282 million, $284 million and $280 million, respectively.  For more information and a complete discussion on our valuation methodology, see Note 6 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in  Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
    
  Impairment of trademarks.     The net carrying value of trademarks as of both   December 31, 2014   and   2013   was approximately $159 million and $158 million, respectively (representing 1% of total assets for both periods).  For more information and a complete discussion on our valuation methodology, see Note 6 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in  Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.   The qualitative analysis in 2014, 2013 and 2012 did not identify any factors that would indicate that it was more likely than not that the fair value of trademarks were less than the carrying value and thus resulted in no impairment. 
    
  Income taxes  
    
  All of Charter s operations are held through Charter Holdco and its direct and indirect subsidiaries.  Charter Holdco and the majority of its subsidiaries are generally limited liability companies that are not subject to income tax.  However, certain of these  
      
   43 

limited liability companies are subject to state income tax.  In addition, the indirect subsidiaries that are corporations are subject to federal and state income tax.  All of the remaining taxable income, gains, losses, deductions and credits of Charter Holdco pass through to Charter and its direct subsidiaries. 
    
  As of   December 31, 2014  , Charter and its indirect corporate subsidiaries had approximately   $9.5 billion   of federal tax net operating loss carryforwards resulting in a gross deferred tax asset of approximately   $3.3 billion  .  Federal tax net operating loss carryforwards expire in the years 2020 through 2034.  These losses resulted from the operations of Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries. In addition, as of   December 31, 2014  , Charter and its indirect corporate subsidiaries had state tax net operating loss carryforwards, resulting in a gross deferred tax asset (net of federal tax benefit) of approximately   $321 million  .  State tax net operating loss carryforwards generally expire in the years 2015 through 2034.  Due to uncertainties in projected future taxable income, valuation allowances have been established against the gross deferred tax assets for book accounting purposes, except for future taxable income that will result from the reversal of existing temporary differences for which deferred tax liabilities are recognized.  Such tax loss carryforwards can accumulate and be used to offset Charter s future taxable income. 
    
  As of   December 31, 2014  ,   $5.3 billion   of federal tax loss carryforwards are unrestricted and available for Charter s immediate use, while approximately   $4.2 billion   of federal tax loss carryforwards are still subject to Section 382 and other restrictions.  Pursuant to these restrictions, Charter estimates that approximately   $2.0 billion   and   $400 million   in the years 2015 and 2016, respectively, and an additional   $226 million   annually over each of the next eight years of federal tax loss carryforwards, should become unrestricted and available for Charter s use.  Both Charter s indirect corporate subsidiary and state tax loss carryforwards are subject to similar but varying restrictions. 
    
  In addition to its tax loss carryforwards, Charter also has tax basis of $4.5 billion in intangible assets and $4.6 billion in property, plant, and equipment as of   December 31, 2014  .  The tax basis in these assets is not subject to Section 382 limitations and therefore is currently deductible as depreciated or amortized.  For illustrative purposes, Charter expects to reflect tax-deductible amortization and depreciation on assets owned as of   December 31, 2014  , beginning at approximately $1.9 billion in 2015 and $3.9 billion between 2016 through 2019, decelerating annually.  The foregoing projected deductions do not include any amortization or depreciation related to future capital spend or potential acquisitions.  In addition, the deductions assume Charter does not dispose of a material portion of its business or make modifications to the underlying partnerships it owns, all of which may materially affect the timing or amount of its existing amortization and depreciation deductions.   Any one of these factors including pending transactions, future legislation or adjustments by the IRS upon examination could also affect the projected deductions. 
    
  As of    December 31, 2014   and   2013  , we have recorded net deferred income tax liabilities of   $1.6 billion   and   $1.4 billion  , respectively.  Net deferred tax liabilities included approximately   $236 million   and   $226 million   at   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , respectively, relating to certain indirect subsidiaries of Charter Holdco that file separate federal or state income tax returns.  The remainder of our net deferred tax liability arose from Charter's investment in Charter Holdco, and was largely attributable to the characterization of franchises for financial reporting purposes as indefinite-lived.  As part of our net liability, on   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , we had gross deferred tax assets of   $4.4 billion   and   $3.9 billion  , respectively, which primarily relate to tax losses allocated to Charter from Charter Holdco.  In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will be realized.  Due to our history of losses and limitations imposed by Section 382 of the Code discussed above, we were unable to assume future taxable income in our analysis and accordingly valuation allowances have been established except for deferred benefits available to offset certain deferred tax liabilities that will reverse over time.  Accordingly, our gross deferred tax assets have been offset with a corresponding valuation allowance of   $3.1 billion   and   $3.0 billion   at   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , respectively.  The amount of the deferred tax assets considered realizable and, therefore, reflected in the consolidated balance sheet, would be increased at such time that it is more-likely-than-not future taxable income will be realized during the carryforward period.  We periodically evaluate the facts and circumstances surrounding this assessment and, at the time this consideration is met, an adjustment to reverse some portion of the existing valuation allowance would result. 
    
  In determining our tax provision for financial reporting purposes, Charter establishes a reserve for uncertain tax positions unless such positions are determined to be  more likely than not  of being sustained upon examination, based on their technical merits.  In evaluating whether a tax position has met the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, we presume the position will be examined by the appropriate taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information.  A tax position that meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in our financial statements.  The tax position is measured as the largest amount of benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized when the position is ultimately resolved.  There is considerable judgment involved in determining whether positions taken on the tax return are  more likely than not  of being sustained.  
    
  Charter adjusts its uncertain tax reserve estimates periodically because of ongoing examinations by, and settlements with, the various taxing authorities, as well as changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations.  
      
   44 

No tax years for Charter or Charter Holdco, for income tax purposes, are currently under examination by the IRS.  Tax years ending 2011 through 2014 remain subject to examination and assessment.  Years prior to 2011 remain open solely for purposes of examination of Charter s loss and credit carryforwards. 
    
  Litigation 
    
  Legal contingencies have a high degree of uncertainty.  When a loss from a contingency becomes estimable and probable, a reserve is established.  The reserve reflects management's best estimate of the probable cost of ultimate resolution of the matter and is revised as facts and circumstances change.  A reserve is released when a matter is ultimately brought to closure or the statute of limitations lapses.  We have established reserves for certain matters.  Although certain matters are not expected individually to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity, such matters could have, in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.   
    
  Programming Agreements 
    
  We exercise significant judgment in estimating programming expense associated with certain video programming contracts. Our policy is to record video programming costs based on our contractual agreements with our programming vendors, which are generally multi-year agreements that provide for us to make payments to the programming vendors at agreed upon market rates based on the number of customers to which we provide the programming service. If a programming contract expires prior to the parties' entry into a new agreement and we continue to distribute the service, we estimate the programming costs during the period there is no contract in place. In doing so, we consider the previous contractual rates, inflation and the status of the negotiations in determining our estimates.  When the programming contract terms are finalized, an adjustment to programming expense is recorded, if necessary, to reflect the terms of the new contract. We also make estimates in the recognition of programming expense related to other items, such as the accounting for free periods, timing of rate increases and credits from service interruptions, as well as the allocation of consideration exchanged between the parties in multiple-element transactions.  
    
  Significant judgment is also involved when we enter into agreements that result in us receiving cash consideration from the programming vendor, usually in the form of advertising sales, channel positioning fees, launch support or marketing support. In these situations, we must determine based upon facts and circumstances if such cash consideration should be recorded as revenue, a reduction in programming expense or a reduction in another expense category (e.g., marketing). 

45 

Results of Operations    
    
  The following table sets forth the percentages of revenues that items in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations constituted for the periods presented (dollars in millions, except per share data):  

Revenues.      Total revenues grew   $953 million   or   12%   in the year ended   December 31, 2014   as compared to   2013   and grew   $651 million   or   9%   in the year ended   December 31, 2013   as compared to   2012  .  Revenue growth primarily reflects increases in the number of residential Internet and triple play customers and in commercial business customers, growth in expanded basic and digital penetration, promotional and annual rate increases, and higher advanced services penetration offset by a decrease in basic video customers.  The Bresnan Acquisition increased revenues in   2014   as compared to   2013   by approximately $276 million and approximately $270 million in   2013   as compared to   2012  .   
    
  Revenues by service offering were as follows (dollars in millions; all percentages are calculated using actual amounts. Minor differences may exist due to rounding):  

46 

Video revenues consist primarily of revenues from basic and digital video services provided to our non-commercial customers, as well as franchise fees, equipment rental and video installation revenue.  Residential video customers decreased by   17,000   in   2014   and increased 188,000 in   2013  .  However, after giving effect to the Bresnan Acquisition, residential basic video customers decreased by 109,000 in   2013  .  The changes in video revenues are attributable to the following (dollars in millions): 

Residential Internet customers grew by   383,000   and 598,000 customers in   2014   and   2013  , respectively, or 324,000 customers in   2013  , after giving effect to the Bresnan Acquisition.  The increases in Internet revenues from our residential customers are attributable to the following (dollars in millions): 

Residential voice customers grew by   166,000   and 359,000 customers in   2014   and   2013  , respectively, or 200,000 customers in   2013  , after giving effect to the Bresnan Acquisition. The changes in voice revenues from our residential customers are attributable to the following (dollars in millions):  

47 

Commercial revenues consist primarily of revenues from services provided to our commercial customers.  Commercial PSUs increased   52,000   and 100,000 in   2014   and   2013  , respectively, or 64,000 customers in   2013  , after giving effect to the Bresnan Acquisition.  The increases in commercial revenues are attributable to the following (dollars in millions): 

Advertising sales revenues consist primarily of revenues from commercial advertising customers, programmers and other vendors.  Advertising sales revenues increased in   2014   primarily as a result of an increase in revenue from the political sector of $30 million.  Advertising sales revenues decreased in   2013   primarily as a result of a decrease in revenue from the political and retail sectors of $30 million and $20 million, respectively.  The Bresnan Acquisition increased advertising sales revenue by approximately $7 million in each of 2014 and 2013 compared to the corresponding prior year periods.  
    
  Other revenues consist of home shopping, late payment fees, wire maintenance fees and other miscellaneous revenues.  The decrease in   2014   was primarily due to a decrease in wire maintenance fees.  The increase in   2013   was primarily the result of increases in late payment fees.  The Bresnan Acquisition increased other revenues in each of 2014 and 2013 compared to the corresponding prior year periods by approximately $2 million.   
    
  Operating costs and expenses  .    The increases in our operating costs and expenses are attributable to the following (dollars in millions): 

Programming costs were approximately   $2.5 billion  ,   $2.1 billion   and   $2.0 billion  , representing   41%  ,   40%   and   40%   of operating costs and expenses for each of the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively.  Programming costs consist primarily of costs paid to programmers for basic, digital, premium, video on demand, and pay-per-view programming.  The increase in programming costs is primarily a result of annual contractual rate adjustments, including increases in amounts paid for retransmission consents, broader carriage of certain networks as a result of our all-digital initiative and the introduction of new networks to Charter's video offering.  We expect programming expenses to continue to increase due to a variety of factors, including annual increases imposed by programmers with additional selling power as a result of media consolidation, increased demands by owners of broadcast stations for payment for retransmission consent or linking carriage of other services to retransmission consent, and additional programming, particularly new sports services.  We have been unable to fully pass these increases on to our customers nor do we expect to be able to do so in the future without a potential loss of customers. 
    
  Costs to service customers include residential and commercial costs related to field operations, network operations and customer care including internal and third party labor for installations, service and repair, maintenance, billing and collection, occupancy and vehicle costs.  The increase in costs to service customers was primarily the result of higher spending on labor to deliver  
      
   48 

improved products and service levels and higher collection costs.  During 2013, the increase was also the result of greater reconnect expense.  
    
  The increase in marketing costs during 2014 and 2013 was the result of heavier sales activity and sales channel development.  
    
  The increases in other expense are attributable to the following (dollars in millions): 

The increase in administrative labor in 2014 compared to 2013 relates primarily to increases in the number of employees.  Commercial sales expense and advertising sales expenses increased in   2014   and   2013   compared to the corresponding prior periods primarily related to growth in these businesses. The increase in bad debt in 2014 compared to 2013 is primarily related to a third quarter change in our collections policy and lower recoveries.  The increase in property tax and insurance in 2013 compared to 2012 relates primarily to increases in the number of employees and vehicles.  
    
  Depreciation and amortization.      Depreciation and amortization expense increased by   $248 million   and   $141 million   in   2014   and   2013  , respectively, which primarily represents depreciation on more recent capital expenditures and the Bresnan Acquisition offset by certain assets becoming fully depreciated.     
    
  Other operating expenses, net.    The changes in other operating expenses, net are attributable to the following (dollars in millions): 

For more information, see Note 14 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in  Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
    
  Interest expense, net.      Net interest expense increased by   $65 million   in   2014   from   2013   and decreased by   $61 million   in   2013   from   2012  .  Net interest expense increased in   2014   compared to   2013   primarily as a result of an increase in our weighted average debt outstanding from $13.6 billion for the year ended   December 31, 2013   to $15.8 billion for the year ended   December 31, 2014   offset by a decrease in our weighted average interest rate from 5.8% for the year ended   December 31, 2013   to 5.5% for the year ended   December 31, 2014  .  During the year ended December 31, 2014, we incurred approximately $75 million of interest expense associated with debt which proceeds are currently held in escrow pending consummation of the Transactions.  Net interest expense decreased in   2013   compared to   2012   primarily as a result of a decrease in our weighted average interest rate from 6.5% for the year ended   December 31, 2012   to 5.8% for the year ended   December 31, 2013   offset by an increase in our weighted average debt outstanding from $13.0 billion for the year ended   December 31, 2012   to $13.6 billion for the year ended   December 31, 2013  .    

49 

Loss on extinguishment of debt.   Loss on extinguishment of debt consists of the following for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012   (dollars in millions): 

For more information, see Note 8 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in  Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
    
  Gain (loss) on derivative instruments, net.    Interest rate derivative instruments are held to manage our interest costs and reduce our exposure to increases in floating interest rates.  We recognized a loss of   $7 million   and a gain of   $11 million   during the years ended   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , respectively, which represents the amortization of accumulated other comprehensive loss for interest rate derivative instruments no longer designated as hedges for accounting purposes offset by their change in fair value.  For more information, see Note 11 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in  Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
    
  Income tax expense.     Income tax expense of   $236 million  ,   $120 million   and   $257 million   was recognized for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively, primarily through increases in deferred tax liabilities related to our investment in Charter Holdco and certain of our indirect subsidiaries, in addition to $3 million, $8 million and $7 million of current federal and state income tax expense, respectively.  Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2013 decreased compared to the corresponding prior period, primarily as a result of step-ups in basis of indefinite-lived assets for tax, but not GAAP purposes, including the effects of partnership gains related to financing transactions and a partnership restructuring, which decreased our net deferred tax liability related to indefinite-lived assets by $137 million.  Our tax provision in future periods will vary based on various factors including changes in our deferred tax liabilities attributable to indefinite-lived intangibles, as well as future operating results, however we do not anticipate having such a large reduction in income tax expense attributable to these items unless we enter into restructuring transactions or similar future financing. The ultimate impact on the tax provision of such future financing and restructuring activities, if any, will be dependent on the underlying facts and circumstances at the time.  
    
  Net loss.     We incurred net loss of   $183 million  ,   $169 million   and   $304 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively, primarily as a result of the factors described above.  
    
  Loss per common share.     During   2014   and   2013  , net loss per common share increased by   $0.05   and decreased by   $1.40  , respectively, as a result of the factors described above. 
    
  Use of Adjusted EBITDA     and Free Cash Flow 
    
  We use certain measures that are not defined by GAAP to evaluate various aspects of our business. Adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow are non-GAAP financial measures and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, net loss and net cash flows from operating activities reported in accordance with GAAP. These terms, as defined by us, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow are reconciled to net loss and net cash flows from operating activities, respectively, below. 
    
  Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net loss plus net interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, stock compensation expense, loss on extinguishment of debt, (gain) loss on derivative instruments, net and other operating expenses, such as merger and acquisition costs, special charges and (gain) loss on sale or retirement of assets. As such, it eliminates the significant non-cash depreciation and amortization expense that results from the capital-intensive nature of our businesses as well as other non-cash or special items, and is unaffected by our capital structure or investment activities. Adjusted EBITDA is used by management and Charter s board of directors to evaluate the performance of our business. However, this measure is limited in that it does not reflect  
      
   50 

the periodic costs of certain capitalized tangible and intangible assets used in generating revenues and our cash cost of financing. Management evaluates these costs through other financial measures.     
    
  Free cash flow is defined as net cash flows from operating activities, less capital expenditures and changes in accrued expenses related to capital expenditures. 
    
  We believe that Adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow provide information useful to investors in assessing our performance and our ability to service our debt, fund operations and make additional investments with internally generated funds. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA generally correlates to the leverage ratio calculation under our credit facilities or outstanding notes to determine compliance with the covenants contained in the facilities and notes (all such documents have been previously filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission). For the purpose of calculating compliance with leverage covenants, we use Adjusted EBITDA, as presented, excluding certain expenses paid by our operating subsidiaries to other Charter entities. Our debt covenants refer to these expenses as management fees, which fees were in the amount of   $253 million  ,   $201 million   and   $191 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources    
    
  Introduction    
    
  This section contains a discussion of our liquidity and capital resources, including a discussion of our cash position, sources and uses of cash, access to credit facilities and other financing sources, historical financing activities, cash needs, capital expenditures and outstanding debt.  
    
  Overview of Our Contractual Obligations and Liquidity  
    
  We have significant amounts of debt, including approximately $7.0 billion which proceeds are currently held in escrow pending consummation of the Transactions.  The accreted value of our debt as of   December 31, 2014   was   $21.0 billion  , consisting of   $7.2 billion   of credit facility debt and   $13.8 billion   of high-yield notes. Our business requires significant cash to fund principal and interest payments on our debt.  As of   December 31, 2014  ,   $91 million   of our long-term debt matures in 2015,   $127 million   in 2016,   $1.1 billion   in 2017,   $967 million   in 2018,   $1.5 billion   in 2019 and   $17.3 billion   thereafter.  As of   December 31, 2014  , we had other contractual obligations, including interest on our debt, totaling   $9.3 billion  .  
    
  Our projected cash needs and projected sources of liquidity depend upon, among other things, our actual results, and the timing and amount of our expenditures.  Free cash flow was   $171 million  ,   $409 million   and   $144 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively.  As of   December 31, 2014  , the amount available under our credit facilities was approximately  
      
   51 

$817 million  .  In addition, a $500 million revolver extension is currently committed and available to Charter. The availability of this revolver is not contingent or related to the closing of the Transactions.  We expect to utilize free cash flow and availability under our credit facilities as well as future refinancing transactions to further extend the maturities of or reduce the principal on our obligations. The timing and terms of any refinancing transactions will be subject to market conditions.  Additionally, we may, from time to time, depending on market conditions and other factors, use cash on hand and the proceeds from securities offerings or other borrowings, to retire our debt through open market purchases, privately negotiated purchases, tender offers, or redemption provisions. We believe we have sufficient liquidity from cash on hand, free cash flow and Charter Operating's revolving credit facility as well as access to the capital markets to fund our projected operating cash needs. 
    
  We continue to evaluate the deployment of our anticipated future free cash flow including to reduce our leverage, and to invest in our business growth and other strategic opportunities, including mergers and acquisitions as well as stock repurchases and dividends. As possible acquisitions, swaps or dispositions arise in our industry, we actively review them against our objectives including, among other considerations, improving the operational efficiency, clustering or technology capabilities of our business and achieving appropriate return targets, and we may participate to the extent we believe these possibilities present attractive opportunities.  However, there can be no assurance that we will actually complete any acquisition, disposition or system swap, including the transactions with Comcast, or that any such transactions will be material to our operations or results.  See "Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors - Our inability to successfully acquire and integrate other businesses, assets, products or technologies could harm our operating results." 
    
  Free Cash Flow 
    
  Free cash flow was   $171 million  ,   $409 million   and   $144 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively. The decrease in free cash flow in   2014   compared to   2013   is primarily due to an increase of $396 million in capital expenditures primarily driven by our all-digital transition, an increase of $87 million in cash paid for interest, changes in operating assets and liabilities, excluding the change in accrued interest, that provided $52 million less cash during 2014 and an increase of $22 million in merger and acquisition costs.  The increase in cash paid for interest includes approximately $52 million related to debt which proceeds are currently held in escrow pending consummation of the Transactions.  The decrease in free cash flow was offset by an increase of $332 million in Adjusted EBITDA.  
    
  The increase in free cash flow in   2013   compared to   2012   is primarily due to an increase of $164 million in Adjusted EBITDA, a decrease of $141 million in cash paid for interest due to a decrease in our average interest rate and timing of interest payments with the completion of refinancings, and changes in operating assets and liabilities, excluding the change in accrued interest, that provided $31 million more cash during 2013.  The increase in free cash flow was offset by an increase of $80 million in capital expenditures of which $30 million was related to Bresnan.   
      
   52 

Long-Term Debt 
    
  As of   December 31, 2014  , the accreted value of our total debt was approximately   $21.0 billion  , as summarized below (dollars in millions):  

(a) 
    The accreted values presented above represent the principal amount of the debt less the original issue discount at the time of sale, plus the accretion to the balance sheet date.  However, the amount that is currently payable if the debt becomes immediately due is equal to the principal amount of the debt.  We have availability under our credit facilities of approximately   $817 million   as of   December 31, 2014  . In addition, a $500 million revolver extension is currently committed and available to Charter. The availability of this revolver is not contingent or related to the closing of the Transactions.   
              (b) 
    In general, the obligors have the right to redeem all of the notes set forth in the above table in whole or in part at their option, beginning at various times prior to their stated maturity dates, subject to certain conditions, upon the payment of the outstanding principal amount (plus a specified redemption premium) and all accrued and unpaid interest. For additional information see "Description of our Outstanding Debt" below. 

53 

Contractual Obligations 
    
  The following table summarizes our payment obligations as of   December 31, 2014   under our long-term debt and certain other contractual obligations and commitments (dollars in millions.)   

(a) 
    The table presents maturities of long-term debt outstanding as of   December 31, 2014  , including approximately $7.0 billion of debt which proceeds are currently held in escrow pending consummation of the Transactions.  Refer to Notes 8 and 18 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in  Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  for a description of our long-term debt and other contractual obligations and commitments. 
              (b) 
    Interest payments on variable debt are estimated using amounts outstanding at   December 31, 2014   and the average implied forward London Interbank Offering Rate ( LIBOR ) rates applicable for the quarter during the interest rate reset based on the yield curve in effect at   December 31, 2014  .  Actual interest payments will differ based on actual LIBOR rates and actual amounts outstanding for applicable periods. 
               (d) 
    We pay programming fees under multi-year contracts ranging from three to ten years, typically based on a flat fee per customer, which may be fixed for the term, or may in some cases escalate over the term.  Programming costs included in the accompanying statement of operations were approximately   $2.5 billion  ,   $2.1 billion   and   $2.0 billion  , for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively.  Certain of our programming agreements are based on a flat fee per month or have guaranteed minimum payments.  The table sets forth the aggregate guaranteed minimum commitments under our programming contracts. 
              (e) 
     Other  represents other guaranteed minimum commitments, which consist primarily of commitments to our customer premise equipment vendors. 
       
  The following items are not included in the contractual obligations table because the obligations are not fixed and/or determinable due to various factors discussed below.  However, we incur these costs as part of our operations: 

We rent utility poles used in our operations.  Generally, pole rentals are cancelable on short notice, but we anticipate that such rentals will recur.  Rent expense incurred for pole rental attachments for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012   was   $49 million  ,   $49 million   and   $47 million  , respectively.   
                
    We pay franchise fees under multi-year franchise agreements based on a percentage of revenues generated from video service per year.  We also pay other franchise related costs, such as public education grants, under multi-year agreements.  Franchise fees and other franchise-related costs included in the accompanying statement of operations were   $208 million  ,   $190 million   and   $176 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively. 
                
    We also have   $85 million   in letters of credit, primarily to our various worker s compensation, property and casualty, and general liability carriers, as collateral for reimbursement of claims.   
       
  Limitations on Distributions 
    
  Distributions by Charter s subsidiaries to a parent company for payment of principal on parent company notes are restricted under indentures and credit facilities governing our indebtedness, unless there is no default under the applicable indenture and credit facilities, and unless each applicable subsidiary s leverage ratio test is met at the time of such distribution.  As of   December 31, 2014  , there was no default under any of these indentures or credit facilities and each subsidiary met its applicable leverage ratio  
      
   54 

tests based on   December 31, 2014   financial results.  Such distributions would be restricted, however, if any such subsidiary fails to meet these tests at the time of the contemplated distribution. In the past, certain subsidiaries have from time to time failed to meet their leverage ratio test.  There can be no assurance that they will satisfy these tests at the time of the contemplated distribution. Distributions by Charter Operating for payment of principal on CCO Holdings' notes or CCOH Safari Notes are further restricted by the covenants in its credit facilities.   
    
  In addition to the limitation on distributions under the various indentures discussed above, distributions by our subsidiaries may be limited by applicable law, including the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act, under which our subsidiaries may only make distributions if they have  surplus  as defined in the act.   
    
  Historical Operating, Investing, and Financing Activities    
    
  Cash and Cash Equivalents.    We held   $3 million   and   $21 million   in cash and cash equivalents as of   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , respectively.  We held   $7.1 billion   in restricted cash and cash equivalents as of   December 31, 2014  . 
    
  Operating Activities.      Net cash provided by operating activities increased   $201 million   from   $2.2 billion   for the year ended   December 31, 2013   to   $2.4 billion   for the year ended   December 31, 2014  , primarily due to an increase in Adjusted EBITDA of $332 million offset by an $87 million increase in cash paid for interest and a $22 million increase in merger and acquisition costs.  
    
  Net cash provided by operating activities increased   $282 million   from   $1.9 billion   for the year ended   December 31, 2012   to   $2.2 billion   for the year ended   December 31, 2013  , primarily due to an increase in Adjusted EBITDA of $164 million and a $141 million decrease in our cash paid for interest offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities, excluding the change in accrued interest and in liabilities related to capital expenditures, that provided $32 million less cash during 2013. 
    
  Investing Activities.      Net cash used in investing activities for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , was   $9.3 billion  ,   $2.4 billion   and   $1.7 billion  , respectively.  The increase in 2014 compared to 2013 is primarily due to the investment of $7.1 billion of net proceeds from the issuance of the term loan G and CCOH Safari Notes in long-term restricted cash and cash equivalents and higher capital expenditures offset by $676 million cash paid for the Bresnan Acquisition (net of debt assumed) in 2013.  The increase in 2013 compared to 2012 is primarily due to $676 million cash paid for the Bresnan Acquisition (net of debt assumed) and higher capital expenditures.   
    
  Financing Activities.      Net cash provided by financing activities was   $6.9 billion   and   $299 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , respectively, and net cash used in financing activities was   $134 million   for the year ended   December 31, 2012  .  The increase in cash provided during the year ended   December 31, 2014   as compared to the corresponding period in   2013  , was primarily due to the issuance of the term loan G and CCOH Safari Notes in 2014.  The increase in cash provided during the year ended   December 31, 2013   as compared to the corresponding period in   2012  , was primarily the result of an increase in the amount by which borrowings of long-term debt exceeded repayments of long-term debt and an increase in proceeds from the exercise of options and warrants. 
    
  Capital Expenditures    
    
  We have significant ongoing capital expenditure requirements.  Capital expenditures were   $2.2 billion  ,   $1.8 billion   and   $1.7 billion   for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively.  The increase was driven by approximately   $410 million   related to our all-digital transition, investment in CPE to support customer growth, higher product development investments and ongoing insourcing initiative and the acquisition of Bresnan.  See the table below for more details.   
    
  We currently expect capital expenditures in 2015 to be approximately $1.7 billion excluding potential expenditures related to the Transactions.  We anticipate 2015 capital expenditures to be driven by growth in residential and commercial customers along with further spend related to product development. Our expected capital expenditures for 2015 are lower than capital expenditures in 2014 due to the completion of our all-digital initiative in 2014.  The actual amount of our capital expenditures in 2015 will depend on a number of factors including the pace of transition planning to service a larger customer base upon closing of the Transactions. 
    
  Our capital expenditures are funded primarily from cash flows from operating activities and borrowings on our credit facility.  In addition, our liabilities related to capital expenditures increased by   $33 million  ,   $76 million   and   $13 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively.   

55 

The following table presents our major capital expenditures categories in accordance with NCTA disclosure guidelines for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  .  The disclosure is intended to provide more consistency in the reporting of capital expenditures among peer companies in the cable industry.  These disclosure guidelines are not required disclosures under GAAP, nor do they impact our accounting for capital expenditures under GAAP (dollars in millions): 

(a) 
    Customer premise equipment includes costs incurred at the customer residence to secure new customers and revenue generating units, including customer installation costs and customer premise equipment (e.g., set-top boxes and cable modems). 
              (b) 
    Scalable infrastructure includes costs not related to customer premise equipment, to secure growth of new customers and revenue generating units, or provide service enhancements (e.g., headend equipment). 
              (c) 
    Line extensions include network costs associated with entering new service areas (e.g., fiber/coaxial cable, amplifiers, electronic equipment, make-ready and design engineering). 
              (d) 
    Upgrade/rebuild includes costs to modify or replace existing fiber/coaxial cable networks, including betterments. 
              (e) 
    Support capital includes costs associated with the replacement or enhancement of non-network assets due to technological and physical obsolescence (e.g., non-network equipment, land, buildings and vehicles).  
        
  Description of Our Outstanding Debt  
    
  Overview 
    
  As of   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , the blended weighted average interest rate on our debt was   5.4%   and   5.6%  , respectively.  The interest rate on approximately   72%   and   84%   of the total principal amount of our debt was effectively fixed, including the effects of our interest rate hedge agreements as of   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , respectively, and including $7.0 billion of debt which proceeds are currently held in escrow pending consummation of the Transactions as of December 31, 2014.  The fair value of our high-yield notes was   $14.2 billion   and   $10.4 billion   at   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , respectively.  The fair value of our credit facilities was   $7.2 billion   and   $3.8 billion   at   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , respectively. The fair value of our high-yield notes and credit facilities were based on quoted market prices. 
    
  The following description is a summary of certain provisions of our credit facilities and our note indentures (the  Debt Agreements ).  The summary does not restate the terms of the Debt Agreements in their entirety, nor does it describe all the terms of the Debt Agreements. The agreements and instruments governing each of the Debt Agreements are complicated and you should consult such agreements and instruments for more detailed information regarding the Debt Agreements. 
    
  Charter Operating Credit Facilities   General 
    
  The Charter Operating credit facilities have an outstanding principal amount of   $3.7 billion   at   December 31, 2014   as follows:  

A term loan E with a remaining principal amount of approximately   $1.5 billion  , which is repayable in equal quarterly installments and aggregating   $15 million   in each loan year, with the remaining balance due at final maturity on July 1, 2020; 
         
   56 

A term loan F with a remaining principal amount of approximately   $1.2 billion  , which is repayable in equal quarterly installments and aggregating   $12 million   in each loan year, with the remaining balance due at final maturity on January 3, 2021; and 
        
  Amounts outstanding under the Charter Operating credit facilities bear interest, at Charter Operating s election, at a base rate or LIBOR, as defined, plus a margin. The applicable LIBOR margin for the term loan A is currently 2.00%.  The term loans E and F bear interest at LIBOR plus 2.25%, with a LIBOR floor of 0.75%. Charter Operating pays interest equal to LIBOR plus 2.00% on amounts borrowed under the revolving credit facility and pays a revolving commitment fee of 0.30% per annum on the daily average available amount of the revolving commitment, payable quarterly. 
    
  The Charter Operating credit facilities also allow us to enter into incremental term loans in the future (including the incremental term loan A-2 described below), with amortization as set forth in the notices establishing such term loans.  Although the Charter Operating credit facilities allow for the incurrence of a certain amount of incremental term loans subject to pro-forma compliance with its financial maintenance covenants, no assurance can be given that we could obtain additional incremental term loans in the future if Charter Operating sought to do so or what amount of incremental term loans would be allowable at any given time under the terms of the Charter Operating credit facilities. 
    
  As previously announced in July 2014, Charter Operating received a commitment from certain lenders to provide up to $1.0 billion in an incremental term loan A-2. The incremental term loan A-2 loan forms a portion of the incremental facilities commitments that would be used to fund the purchase of certain assets pursuant to the Transaction.  If issued, such term loan A-2 loan would be issued under the Charter Operating credit facilities, would have a five year maturity and would bear interest at LIBOR plus 2.00%. 
    
  The obligations of Charter Operating under the Charter Operating credit facilities are guaranteed by Charter Operating s immediate parent company, CCO Holdings, and subsidiaries of Charter Operating.  The obligations are also secured by (i) a lien on substantially all of the assets of Charter Operating and its subsidiaries (excluding CCO Safari), to the extent such lien can be perfected under the Uniform Commercial Code by the filing of a financing statement, and (ii) a pledge by CCO Holdings of the equity interests owned by it in Charter Operating or any of Charter Operating s subsidiaries, as well as intercompany obligations owing to it by any of such entities. 
    
  CCO Safari Credit Facility - General 
    
  In September 2014, Charter Operating entered into a new term loan G facility pursuant to the terms of the Charter Operating credit agreement providing for a   $3.5 billion   term loan maturing in 2021.  Pricing on the term loan G was set at LIBOR plus 3.50% with a LIBOR floor of   0.75%   and issued at a price of   99.50%   of the aggregate principal amount.  The term loan G forms a portion of the incremental facilities commitments as announced by us in July 2014 that will be used to fund the purchase of certain assets pursuant to the Transactions.  Charter Operating assigned all of its obligations with respect to the term loan G and transferred all of the proceeds from the term loan G to a newly-created subsidiary, CCO Safari, which is considered a Non-Recourse Subsidiary under Charter Operating s credit agreement, and CCO Safari placed the funds in an escrow account pending closing of the Transactions over which the administrative agent has a perfected first priority security interest on behalf of the lenders that are a party to the CCO Safari credit facility.  The amounts borrowed under the term loan G facility are not considered when calculating the leverage ratio on the CCO Holdings Indentures as CCO Safari has been designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary under the CCO Holdings Indenture.  At closing of the Transactions, subject to certain conditions, Charter Operating will re-assume the obligations in respect of the term loan G under the Charter Operating credit agreement and the term loan G will be subject to the terms and conditions of the Charter Operating credit facilities.  Such amounts, along with required original issuance discount and one month of interest, were placed in escrow and classified as noncurrent restricted cash and cash equivalents in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2014.  To the extent the Transactions do not close, such amounts placed in escrow must be used to settle amounts outstanding under the term loan G.  See "Part I. Item I. Business   Transactions with Comcast." 
    
  Charter Operating Credit Facilities   Restrictive Covenants 
    
  The Charter Operating credit facilities contain representations and warranties, and affirmative and negative covenants customary for financings of this type. The financial covenants measure performance against standards set for leverage to be tested as of the end of each quarter.  The Charter Operating credit facilities contain provisions requiring mandatory loan prepayments under specific circumstances, including in connection with certain sales of assets, so long as the proceeds have not been reinvested in the business.  Additionally, the Charter Operating credit facilities provisions contain an allowance for restricted payments so long as the consolidated leverage ratio at Charter Operating (excludes debt of CCO Safari since it is a Non-Recourse Subsidiary) is no greater  
      
   57 

than 3.5 after giving pro forma effect to such restricted payment.  The Charter Operating credit facilities permit Charter Operating and its subsidiaries to make distributions to pay interest on the currently outstanding subordinated and parent company indebtedness, provided that, among other things, no default has occurred and is continuing under the Charter Operating credit facilities.  
    
  The events of default under the Charter Operating credit facilities include, among other things:  

the failure to make payments when due or within the applicable grace period; 
                
    the failure to comply with specified covenants including the covenant to maintain the consolidated leverage ratio at Charter Operating (excluding debt of CCO Safari since it is a Non-Recourse Subsidiary) at or below 5.0 to 1.0 and the consolidated first lien leverage ratio at or below 4.0 to 1.0; 
                
    the failure to pay or the occurrence of events that cause or permit the acceleration of other indebtedness owing by CCO Holdings, Charter Operating, or Charter Operating s subsidiaries in aggregate principal amounts in excess of $100 million; and 
                
    similar to provisions contained in the note indentures, the consummation of any change of control transaction resulting in any person or group having power, directly or indirectly, to vote more than 50% of the ordinary voting power for the management of Charter Operating on a fully diluted basis and the occurrence of a ratings event including a downgrade in the corporate family rating during a ratings decline period. 
       
  At   December 31, 2014  , Charter Operating had a consolidated leverage ratio of approximately 1.3 to 1.0 and a consolidated first lien leverage ratio of 1.0   to 1.0.   Both ratios are in compliance with the ratios required by the Charter Operating credit facilities.  A failure by Charter Operating to maintain the financial covenants would result in an event of default under the Charter Operating credit facilities and the debt of CCO Holdings.  See    Cross Acceleration  and  Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors   The agreements and instruments governing our debt contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity." 
    
  CCO Safari Credit Facility   Restrictive Covenants 
    
  The term loan G is subject to the terms and conditions of a separate credit facility and escrow agreement until Charter Operating reassumes its obligations for the loan.  The CCO Safari credit facility contains customary representations and warranties and affirmative covenants with limited negative covenants prohibiting CCO Safari from engaging in any material activities other than performing its obligations under the credit facility and the escrow agreement or otherwise issuing other indebtedness pursuant to escrow arrangements similar to the CCO Safari credit facility and escrow agreement.  As required by the CCO Safari credit facility, CCO Safari, Bank of America, N.A., and U.S. Bank, N.A., as escrow agent, entered into an escrow agreement pursuant to which, CCO Safari is required to maintain an escrow account over which the administrative agent has a perfected first priority security interest on behalf of the CCO Safari credit facility lenders.  The events of default under the CCO Safari credit facility include, among others:   

the failure to make payments when due or within the applicable grace period; 
                
    any acceleration of the loans and termination of the commitments under the Charter Operating credit facilities; and 
                
    the escrow agreement shall cease to be in full force and effect or the lien in the escrow account shall cease to be enforceable with the same effect and priority. 
       
  CCOH Safari Notes 
    
  In October 2014, Charter created CCOH Safari as a 100% wholly-owned indirect finance subsidiary of Charter. In November 2014, CCOH Safari, closed on transactions in which it issued $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.50% senior notes due 2022 and $2.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.75% senior notes due 2024.  The net proceeds of the offering and sale of the CCOH Safari Notes and the next semi-annual interest payment will be held in escrow to fund a portion of the purchase of certain assets pursuant to the Transactions. The release of the proceeds from the escrow will be subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including the closing of the Transactions. Substantially concurrently with the escrow release, the CCOH Safari Notes will become obligations of CCO Holdings and CCO Holdings Capital.  CCOH Safari will merge into CCO Holdings.  Should the Transactions Agreement be terminated prior to the consummation of the Transactions, or upon expiration of the escrow agreement on November 5, 2015, such amounts placed in escrow must be used to settle amounts outstanding under the CCOH Safari Notes at par value.  The amounts held in escrow are classified as noncurrent restricted cash and cash equivalents in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2014.    See "Part I. Item I. Business   Transactions with Comcast." 
    
  Initially, the CCOH Safari Notes are senior debt obligations of CCOH Safari.  Upon release of the proceeds from escrow, the CCOH Safari Notes will be senior debt obligations of CCO Holdings and CCO Holdings Capital Corp. and rank equally with all other current and future unsecured, unsubordinated obligations of CCO Holdings and CCO Holdings Capital Corp.  The CCOH  
      
   58 

Safari Notes are structurally subordinated to all obligations of subsidiaries of CCO Holdings, including the Charter Operating and CCO Safari credit facilities.  The CCOH Safari Notes are guaranteed by Charter.     
    
  CCO Holdings Notes  
    
  The CCO Holdings notes are senior debt obligations of CCO Holdings and CCO Holdings Capital Corp. Such notes are guaranteed by Charter.  They rank equally with all other current and future unsecured, unsubordinated obligations of CCO Holdings and CCO Holdings Capital Corp.  They are structurally subordinated to all obligations of subsidiaries of CCO Holdings, including the Charter Operating credit facilities. 
    
  Redemption Provisions of Our Notes 
    
  The various notes issued by our subsidiaries included in the table may be redeemed in accordance with the following table or are not redeemable until maturity as indicated:  

59 

In the event that a specified change of control event occurs, each of the respective issuers of the notes must offer to repurchase any then outstanding notes at 101% of their principal amount or accrued value, as applicable, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any.   
    
  Summary of Restrictive Covenants of Our Note Indentures   
    
  The following description is a summary of certain restrictions of our note indentures.  The summary does not restate the terms of the note indentures in their entirety, nor does it describe all restrictions.  The agreements and instruments governing each of the notes issued are complicated and you should consult such agreements and instruments for more detailed information regarding the notes issued.   
    
  The CCOH Safari Notes were issued pursuant to a base indenture and a first and second supplemental indenture to that base all dated November 5, 2014 (the  CCOH Safari Indentures ).  The CCOH Safari Indentures provide that, with limited exceptions of covenants regarding compliance certificates and stay, extension and usury laws, covenants restricting the activities of the note issuer and its subsidiaries do not apply until such time as the CCOH Safari note proceeds are released from escrow.  As stated previously, substantially concurrently with the escrow release, the CCOH Safari Notes will become obligations of CCO Holdings and CCO Holdings Capital, CCOH Safari will merge with CCO Holdings and the terms and conditions of the CCOH Safari Indentures will apply to CCO Holdings and CCO Holdings Capital.    
    
  The notes issued by CCO Holdings and CCO Holdings Capital were issued pursuant to certain indentures referred to in this section as the  CCO Holdings Indentures.   The CCO Holdings Indentures and the CCOH Safari Indentures (following the release of proceeds from escrow) contain covenants that restrict the ability of CCO Holdings and its subsidiaries to, among other things:   

incur indebtedness; 
                
    pay dividends or make distributions in respect of capital stock and other restricted payments; 
                
    issue equity; 
                
    make investments; 
                
    create liens; 
                
    sell assets; 
                
    consolidate, merge, or sell all or substantially all assets; 
                
    create restrictions on the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make certain payments; or 
                
    enter into transactions with affiliates. 
       
  However, such covenants are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions.  Below we set forth a brief summary of certain of the restrictive covenants.   

60 

Restrictions on Additional Debt 
    
  The limitations on incurrence of debt and issuance of preferred stock contained in the CCO Holdings Indentures and the CCOH Safari Indentures permit CCO Holdings and its restricted subsidiaries to incur additional debt or issue preferred stock, so long as, after giving pro forma effect to the incurrence, the leverage ratio would be below a specified level for CCO Holdings.  The leverage ratio under the indentures is 6.0 to 1. 
    
  In addition, regardless of whether the leverage ratio could be met, so long as no default exists or would result from the incurrence or issuance, CCO Holdings and its restricted subsidiaries are permitted to issue among other permitted indebtedness: 

up to $1.5 billion of debt under credit facilities not otherwise allocated;  
                
    up to the greater of $300 million (or $600 million in the case of the notes issued under the CCOH Safari Indentures)  
     and 5% of consolidated net tangible assets to finance the purchase or capital lease of new assets; 
             
    up to the greater of $300 million (or $600 million in the case of the notes issued under the CCOH Safari Indentures)  
     and 5% of consolidated net tangible assets of additional debt for any purpose; and  
             
    other items of indebtedness for specific purposes such as intercompany debt, refinancing of existing debt, and interest rate swaps to provide protection against fluctuation in interest rates. 
       
  Indebtedness under a single facility or agreement may be incurred in part under one of the categories listed above and in part under another, and generally may also later be reclassified into another category including as debt incurred under the leverage ratio.  Accordingly, indebtedness under our credit facilities may be incurred under a combination of the categories of permitted indebtedness listed above.  The restricted subsidiaries of CCO Holdings are generally not permitted to issue subordinated debt securities. 
    
  Restrictions on Distributions 
    
  Generally, under the indentures governing notes issued by CCO Holdings and CCOH Safari, CCO Holdings and its respective restricted subsidiaries are permitted to pay dividends on or repurchase equity interests, or make other specified restricted payments, only if it can incur $1.00 of new debt under the 6.0 to 1.0 leverage ratio test after giving effect to the transaction and if no default exists or would exist as a consequence of such incurrence.  If those conditions are met, restricted payments may be made in a total amount of up to the sum of 100% of CCO Holdings  Consolidated EBITDA, as defined, minus 1.3 times its Consolidated Interest Expense, as defined, cumulatively from April 1, 2010, plus 100% of new cash and appraised non-cash equity proceeds received by CCO Holdings and not allocated to certain investments, cumulatively from the issue date, plus $2 billion. 
    
  In addition, CCO Holdings may make distributions or restricted payments, so long as no default exists or would be caused by transactions among other distributions or restricted payments: 

to repurchase management equity interests in amounts not to exceed $10 million per fiscal year (or $50 million per fiscal year in the case of notes issued under the CCOH Safari Indentures);  
                
    to pay pass-through tax liabilities in respect of ownership of equity interests in the applicable issuer or its restricted subsidiaries; or 
                
    to make other specified restricted payments including merger fees up to 1.25% of the transaction value, repurchases using concurrent new issuances, and certain dividends on existing subsidiary preferred equity interests. 
       
  Restrictions on Investments 
    
  CCO Holdings and its respective restricted subsidiaries may not make investments except (i) permitted investments or (ii) if, after giving effect to the transaction, their leverage would be above the applicable leverage ratio. 
    
  Permitted investments include, among others: 

investments in and generally among restricted subsidiaries or by restricted subsidiaries in the applicable issuer; 
                
    investments aggregating up to $750 million (or $1.1 billion in the case of notes issued under CCO Holdings Indentures for the year 2011 through the date of this filing and for notes issued under the CCOH Safari Indentures) at any time outstanding; and 
                
    investments aggregating up to 100% of new cash equity proceeds received by CCO Holdings since the issue date to the extent the proceeds have not been allocated to the restricted payments covenant. 

61 

Restrictions on Liens 
    
  The restrictions on liens for CCO Holdings only apply to liens on assets of the issuer itself and do not restrict liens on assets of CCO Holdings' subsidiaries.  Permitted liens include liens securing indebtedness and other obligations under credit facilities, liens securing the purchase price of financed new assets, liens securing indebtedness of up to the greater of $50 million (or $90 million in the case of notes issued under the CCOH Safari Indentures) and 1.0% of consolidated net tangible assets and other specified liens.  
    
  Restrictions on the Sale of Assets; Mergers 
    
  CCO Holdings is generally not permitted to sell all or substantially all of its assets or merge with or into other companies unless its leverage ratio after any such transaction would be no greater than its leverage ratio immediately prior to the transaction, or unless after giving effect to the transaction, leverage would be below 6.0 to 1.0, no default exists, and the surviving entity is a U.S. entity that assumes the applicable notes. 
    
  CCO Holdings and its restricted subsidiaries may generally not otherwise sell assets or, in the case of restricted subsidiaries, issue equity interests, in excess of $100 million unless they receive consideration at least equal to the fair market value of the assets or equity interests, consisting of at least 75% in cash, assumption of liabilities, securities converted into cash within 60 days, or productive assets.  CCO Holdings and its restricted subsidiaries are then required within 365 days after any asset sale either to use or commit to use the net cash proceeds over a specified threshold to acquire assets used or useful in their businesses or use the net cash proceeds to repay specified debt, or to offer to repurchase the issuer s notes with any remaining proceeds. 
    
  Prohibitions on Restricting Dividends 
    
  CCO Holdings' restricted subsidiaries may generally not enter into arrangements involving restrictions on their ability to make dividends or distributions or transfer assets to CCO Holdings unless those restrictions with respect to financing arrangements are on terms that are no more restrictive than those governing the credit facilities existing when they entered into the applicable indentures or are not materially more restrictive than customary terms in comparable financings and will not materially impair CCO Holdings' ability to make payments on the notes. 
    
  Affiliate Transactions 
    
  The CCO Holdings Indentures and CCOH Safari Indentures also restrict the ability of CCO Holdings and its restricted subsidiaries to enter into certain transactions with affiliates involving consideration in excess of $25 million without a determination by the board of directors that the transaction complies with this covenant, or transactions with affiliates involving over $100 million without receiving an opinion as to the fairness to the holders of such transaction from a financial point of view issued by an accounting, appraisal or investment banking firm of national standing. 
    
  Cross Acceleration 
    
  The CCO Holdings Indentures and CCOH Safari Indentures include various events of default, including cross acceleration provisions.  Under these provisions, a failure by CCO Holdings or any of its restricted subsidiaries to pay at the final maturity thereof the principal amount of other indebtedness having a principal amount of $100 million or more (or any other default under any such indebtedness resulting in its acceleration) would result in an event of default under the indenture governing the applicable notes.  As a result, an event of default related to the failure to repay principal at maturity or the acceleration of the indebtedness under the notes issued under the CCO Holdings Indentures or the CCOH Safari Indentures or the Charter Operating credit facilities could cause cross-defaults under all outstanding indentures.  
    
  Recently Issued Accounting Standards    
    
  In April 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-08, Presentation of Financial Statements and Property, Plant, and Equipment: Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of components of an Entity ("ASU 2014-08").  ASU 2014-08  changes the criteria for reporting a discontinued operation. Under the new guidance, a disposed component of an organization that represents a strategic shift that has (or will have) a major effect on its operations and financial results is a discontinued operation.  For disposals of individually significant components that do not qualify for discontinued operations presentation, an entity must disclose pre-tax profit or loss of the disposed component.  ASU 2014-08 requires prospective application to all disposals that are classified as held for sale and that occur within annual and interim periods beginning on or after December 15, 2014, with earlier application permitted for disposals that have not been reported in  
      
   62 

previously issued financial statements.  We adopted ASU 2014-08 on January 1, 2015.  The adoption of ASU 2014-8 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
    
  In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers ("ASU 2014-09"), which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. The ASU will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP when it becomes effective.  The effective date of ASU 2014-09 is fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those years, with earlier adoption prohibited.  Companies can transition to the standard either retrospectively or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption.  We have not yet selected a transition method nor have we determined the effect of ASU 2014-09 to our consolidated financial statements. 
    
    Item 7A.           Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.    
    
  We are exposed to various market risks, including fluctuations in interest rates.  We use interest rate derivative instruments to manage our interest costs and reduce our exposure to increases in floating interest rates.  We manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by maintaining a mix of fixed and variable rate debt. Using interest rate derivative instruments, we agree to exchange, at specified intervals through 2017, the difference between fixed and variable interest amounts calculated by reference to agreed-upon notional principal amounts.  For more information, see Note 11 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in  Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  
       
  As of   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , the principal amount of our debt was approximately   $21.1 billion   and   $14.2 billion  , respectively, including $7.0 billion of debt which proceeds are currently held in escrow pending consummation of the Transactions as of December 31, 2014.  As of   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , the weighted average interest rate on the credit facility debt, including the effects of our interest rate swap agreements, was approximately 3.8% and 3.6%, respectively, and the weighted average interest rate on the high-yield notes was approximately 6.2% and 6.4%, respectively, resulting in a blended weighted average interest rate of   5.4%   and   5.6%  , respectively.  The interest rate on approximately   72%   and   84%   of the total principal amount of our debt was effectively fixed, including the effects of our interest rate swap agreements, as of   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , respectively.  Excluding $7.0 billion of debt whose proceeds are currently held in escrow, the interest rate on 82% of the total principal amount of our debt was effectively fixed, including the effects of our interest rate swap agreements, as of   December 31, 2014  .  
    
  The table set forth below summarizes the fair values and contract terms of financial instruments subject to interest rate risk maintained by us as of   December 31, 2014   (dollars in millions):  

At   December 31, 2014  , we had   $1.4 billion   in notional amounts of interest rate swaps outstanding.  This includes   $150 million   in delayed start interest rate swaps that become effective in March 2015.  Also in March 2015, $300 million of currently effective swaps expire and therefore the notional amount of currently effective interest rate derivative instruments will decrease.   
    
  The notional amounts of interest rate instruments do not represent amounts exchanged by the parties and, thus, are not a measure of our exposure to credit loss.  The amounts exchanged are determined by reference to the notional amount and the other terms of the contracts.  The estimated fair value is determined using a present value calculation based on an implied forward LIBOR curve (adjusted for Charter Operating s or counterparties  credit risk).  Interest rates on variable debt are estimated using the  
      
   63 

average implied forward LIBOR for the year of maturity based on the yield curve in effect at   December 31, 2014   including applicable bank spread.  
    
    Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.    
    
  Our consolidated financial statements, the related notes thereto, and the reports of independent accountants are included in this annual report beginning on page F-1.  
    
    Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.    
    
  None. 
    
    Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures. 
    
  Conclusion Regarding the Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
    
  As of the end of the period covered by this report, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we have evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures with respect to the information generated for use in this annual report.  The evaluation was based in part upon reports and certifications provided by a number of executives.  Based upon, and as of the date of that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurances that information required to be disclosed in the reports we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms.  
    
  In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, our management recognized that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.  Based upon the above evaluation, we believe that our controls provide such reasonable assurances. 
    
  There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting during the   fourth   quarter of   2014   that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
    
  Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
    
  Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) for the Company.  Our internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to Charter s management and board of directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements.  
    
  Management has assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of   2014  .  In making this assessment, we used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ) in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework   (2013)  .    Based on management s assessment utilizing these criteria we believe that, as of   December 31, 2014  , our internal control over financial reporting was effective  . 
    
  Our independent auditors, KPMG LLP, have audited our internal control over financial reporting as stated in their report on page F-2. 
    
    Item 9B.    Other Information. 
    
  None.   

64 

PART III 
    
    Item 10.    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.  
    
  The information required by Item 10 will be included in Charter s 2014 Proxy Statement (the  Proxy Statement ) under the headings  Election of Class A Directors,   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Requirements,  and  Code of Ethics,  or in amendment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference. 
    
    Item 11.    Executive Compensation.  
     
  The information required by Item 11 will be included in the Proxy Statement under the headings  Executive Compensation,   Election of Class A Directors   Director Compensation  and  Compensation Discussion and Analysis,  or in an amendment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference.  Information contained in the Proxy Statement or an amendment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K     under the caption  Report of Compensation and Benefits Committee  is furnished and not deemed filed with the SEC. 
    
    Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.  
     
  The information required by Item 12 will be included in the Proxy Statement under the heading  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  or in amendment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference. 
    
    Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.  
     
  The information required by Item 13 will be included in the Proxy Statement under the heading  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  and  Election of Class A Directors  or in amendment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference. 
    
    Item 14.    Principal Accounting Fees and Services  .  
     
  The information required by Item 14 will be included in the Proxy Statement under the heading  Accounting Matters  or in amendment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference. 

65 

PART IV 
    
    Item 15.    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. 
    
           (a) 
    The following documents are filed as part of this annual report: 
       
           (1) 
    Financial Statements. 
       
  A listing of the financial statements, notes and reports of independent public accountants required by Item 8 begins on page F-1 of this annual report. 
    
           (2) 
    Financial Statement Schedules. 
       
  No financial statement schedules are required to be filed by Items 8 and 15(c) because they are not required or are not applicable, or the required information is set forth in the applicable financial statements or notes thereto. 
    
           (3) 
    The index to the exhibits begins on page E-1 of this annual report. 

66 

SIGNATURES 
    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Charter Communications, Inc. has duly caused this annual report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  

CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC., 

Registrant 

By: 
      
    /s/ Thomas M. Rutledge 

Thomas M. Rutledge 

President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 
      Date: February 23, 2015 

S- 1 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 
    
  KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Richard R. Dykhouse and Kevin D. Howard, and each of them (with full power to each of them to act alone), his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign on his or her behalf individually and in each capacity stated below any and all amendments (including post-effective amendments) to this annual report, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents and either of them, or their substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
    
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Charter Communications, Inc. and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.  
    
                   Signature 
    Title 
    Date 
      /s/ Thomas M. Rutledge        Thomas M. Rutledge 
    President, Chief Executive Officer, Director  (Principal Executive Officer) 
    February 23, 2015 

/s/ Christopher L. Winfrey        Christopher L. Winfrey 
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) 
    February 23, 2015 

/s/ Kevin D. Howard         Kevin D. Howard 
    Senior Vice President   Finance, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer) 
    February 23, 2015 

/s/ Balan Nair        Balan Nair 
    Director 
    February 23, 2015 

/s/ W. Lance Conn        W. Lance Conn 
    Director 
    February 23, 2015 

/s/ Michael Huseby        Michael Huseby  
    Director 
    February 23, 2015 

/s/ Craig A. Jacobson        Craig A. Jacobson  
    Director 
    February 23, 2015 

/s/ Gregory Maffei        Gregory Maffei 
    Director 
    February 23, 2015 

/s/ John Malone        John Malone 
    Director 
    February 23, 2015 

/s/ John D. Markley, Jr.        John D. Markley, Jr.  
    Director 
    February 23, 2015 

/s/ David C. Merritt        David C. Merritt  
    Director 
    February 23, 2015 

/s/ Eric L. Zinterhofer        Eric L. Zinterhofer 
    Director 
    February 23, 2015 

S- 2 

Exhibit Index 
    
  Exhibits are listed by numbers corresponding to the Exhibit Table of Item 601 in Regulation S-K.  

E- 1 

E- 2 

E- 3 

E- 4 

32.1* 
      
    Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Chief Executive Officer). 
      32.2* 
      
    Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Chief Financial Officer). 
      101 
      
    The following financial information from the Annual Report of Charter Communications, Inc. on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014, filed with the SEC on February 23, 2015, formatted in eXtensible Business Reporting Language: (i) Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) Consolidated Statements of Operations, (iii) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss, (iv) Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholder Equity, (v) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (vi) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

_____________ 
  *    Filed herewith. 
   +       Management compensatory plan or arrangement 
    E- 5 

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

F- 1 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    
  The Board of Directors and Shareholders 
  Charter Communications, Inc.: 
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Charter Communications, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive loss, changes in shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2014. We also have audited the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, based on criteria established in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting (Item 9A). Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. 
    
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
    
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  
    
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  
    
  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Charter Communications, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2014, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, based on criteria established in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
    
  (signed) KPMG LLP 
  St. Louis, Missouri 
  February 23, 2015 

F- 2 

CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES      CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  (dollars in millions, except share data)   

    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  F- 3 

CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS  (dollars in millions, except per share and share data) 

CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE LOSS 
  (dollars in millions) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  F- 4 

CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY 
  (dollars in millions) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  F- 5 

CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  (dollars in millions) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  F- 6 

      CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

1.    Organization and Basis of Presentation  
    
  Organization  
    
  Charter Communications, Inc. ( Charter ) is a holding company whose principal asset is a   100%   common equity interest in Charter Communications Holding Company, LLC ( Charter Holdco ).  Charter owns cable systems through its subsidiaries, which are collectively, with Charter, referred to herein as the  Company.    
    
  The Company is a cable operator providing services in the United States.  The Company offers to residential and commercial customers traditional cable video programming, Internet services, and voice services, as well as advanced video services such as video on demand, high definition television, and digital video recorder ( DVR ) service.  The Company sells its cable video programming, Internet, voice, and advanced video services primarily on a subscription basis.  The Company also sells local advertising on cable networks and on the Internet and provides fiber connectivity to cellular towers. 
    
  Basis of Presentation 
    
  The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ( GAAP ) and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ).    
    
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  Areas involving significant judgments and estimates include capitalization of labor and overhead costs; depreciation and amortization costs; valuations and impairments of property, plant and equipment, intangibles and goodwill; income taxes; contingencies and programming expense.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.  
    
  Certain prior period amounts, primarily merger and acquisition costs, have been reclassified to conform with the 2014 presentation. 
    
    2.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
    
  Consolidation  
    
  The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Charter and its wholly owned subsidiaries.  The Company consolidates based upon evaluation of the Company s power, through voting rights or similar rights, to direct the activities of another entity that most significantly impact the entity s economic performance; its obligation to absorb the expected losses of the entity; and its right to receive the expected residual returns of the entity.  All significant inter-company accounts and transactions among consolidated entities have been eliminated. 
    
  Cash and Cash Equivalents    
    
  The Company considers all highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents.  These investments are carried at cost, which approximates market value.  Cash and cash equivalents consist primarily of money market funds and commercial paper.   
     
  Property, Plant and Equipment    
    
  Additions to property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost, including all material, labor and certain indirect costs associated with the construction of cable transmission and distribution facilities.  While the Company s capitalization is based on specific activities, once capitalized, costs are tracked by fixed asset category at the cable system level and not on a specific asset basis.  For assets that are sold or retired, the estimated historical cost and related accumulated depreciation is removed.  Costs associated with initial customer installations and the additions of network equipment necessary to enable advanced video services are capitalized.  Costs capitalized as part of initial customer installations include materials, labor, and certain indirect costs.  Indirect costs are associated with the activities of the Company s personnel who assist in connecting and activating the new service and consist of compensation and other costs associated with these support functions.  Indirect costs primarily include employee benefits  
      
  F- 7 

    CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

   and payroll taxes, direct variable costs associated with capitalizable activities, consisting primarily of installation and construction, vehicle costs, the cost of dispatch personnel and indirect costs directly attributable to capitalizable activities.  The costs of disconnecting service at a customer s dwelling or reconnecting service to a previously installed dwelling are charged to operating expense in the period incurred.  Costs for repairs and maintenance are charged to operating expense as incurred, while plant and equipment replacement and betterments, including replacement of cable drops from the pole to the dwelling, are capitalized.  
    
  Depreciation is recorded using the straight-line composite method over management s estimate of the useful lives of the related assets as follows:  
    
                   Cable distribution systems 
      
    7-20 years 
      Customer equipment and installations 
      
    3-8 years 
      Vehicles and equipment 
      
    3-6 years 
      Buildings and leasehold improvements 
      
    15-40 years 
      Furniture, fixtures and equipment 
      
    6-10 years 

Asset Retirement Obligations 
    
  Certain of the Company s franchise agreements and leases contain provisions requiring the Company to restore facilities or remove equipment in the event that the franchise or lease agreement is not renewed.  The Company expects to continually renew its franchise agreements and has concluded that all of the related franchise rights are indefinite lived intangible assets.  Accordingly, the possibility is remote that the Company would be required to incur significant restoration or removal costs related to these franchise agreements in the foreseeable future.  A liability is required to be recognized for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made.  The Company has not recorded an estimate for potential franchise related obligations, but would record an estimated liability in the unlikely event a franchise agreement containing such a provision were no longer expected to be renewed.  The Company also expects to renew many of its lease agreements related to the continued operation of its cable business in the franchise areas.  For the Company s lease agreements, the estimated liabilities related to the removal provisions, where applicable, have been recorded and are not significant to the financial statements. 
    
  Other Noncurrent Assets    
    
  Other noncurrent assets primarily include trademarks, right-of-entry costs and deferred financing costs.  Trademarks have been determined to have an indefinite life and are tested annually for impairment.  Right-of-entry costs represent costs incurred related to agreements entered into with landlords, real estate companies or owners to gain access to a building in order to provide cable service.  Right-of-entry costs are generally deferred and amortized to amortization expense over the term of the agreement.  Costs related to borrowings are deferred and amortized to interest expense over the terms of the related borrowings.     
    
  Valuation of Long-Lived Assets    
    
  The Company evaluates the recoverability of long-lived assets to be held and used when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.  Such events or changes in circumstances could include such factors as impairment of the Company s indefinite life assets, changes in technological advances, fluctuations in the fair value of such assets, adverse changes in relationships with local franchise authorities, adverse changes in market conditions or a deterioration of operating results.  If a review indicates that the carrying value of such asset is not recoverable from estimated undiscounted cash flows, the carrying value of such asset is reduced to its estimated fair value.  While the Company believes that its estimates of future cash flows are reasonable, different assumptions regarding such cash flows could materially affect its evaluations of asset recoverability.    No   impairments of long-lived assets to be held and used were recorded in   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  .   
    
  Revenue Recognition    
    
  Revenues from residential and commercial video, Internet and voice services are recognized when the related services are provided.  Advertising sales are recognized at estimated realizable values in the period that the advertisements are broadcast.  In some cases, the Company coordinates the advertising sales efforts of other cable operators in a certain market and remits amounts received from customers less an agreed-upon percentage to such cable operator.  For those arrangements in which the Company acts as a  
      
  F- 8 

    CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

   principal, the Company records the revenues earned from the advertising customer on a gross basis and the amount remitted to the cable operator as an operating expense.   
    
  Fees imposed on Charter by various governmental authorities are passed through on a monthly basis to the Company s customers and are periodically remitted to authorities.  Fees of   $283 million  ,   $263 million   and   $260 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively, are reported in video, voice and commercial revenues, on a gross basis with a corresponding operating expense because the Company is acting as a principal  .    Other taxes, such as sales taxes imposed on the Company's customers, collected and remitted to state and local authorities, are recorded on a net basis because the Company is acting as an agent in such situation. 
    
  The Company s revenues by product line are as follows: 

Programming Costs    
    
  The Company has various contracts to obtain basic, digital and premium video programming from programming vendors whose compensation is typically based on a flat fee per customer.  The cost of the right to exhibit network programming under such arrangements is recorded in operating expenses in the month the programming is available for exhibition.  Programming costs are paid each month based on calculations performed by the Company and are subject to periodic audits performed by the programmers.  Certain programming contracts contain incentives to be paid by the programmers.  The Company receives these payments and recognizes the incentives on a straight-line basis over the life of the programming agreement as a reduction of programming expense.  This offset to programming expense was   $19 million  ,   $7 million   and   $6 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively.  Programming costs included in the accompanying statements of operations were   $2.5 billion  ,   $2.1 billion   and   $2.0 billion   for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively.   
    
  Advertising Costs    
    
  Advertising costs associated with marketing the Company s products and services are generally expensed as costs are incurred.  Such advertising expense was   $380 million  ,   $357 million   and   $325 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively.  
    
  Multiple-Element Transactions   
    
  In the normal course of business, the Company enters into multiple-element transactions where it is simultaneously both a customer and a vendor with the same counterparty or in which it purchases multiple products and/or services, or settles outstanding items contemporaneous with the purchase of a product or service from a single counterparty.  Transactions, although negotiated contemporaneously, may be documented in one or more contracts.  The Company s policy for accounting for each transaction negotiated contemporaneously is to record each element of the transaction based on the respective estimated fair values of the products or services purchased and the products or services sold.  In determining the fair value of the respective elements, the Company refers to quoted market prices (where available), historical transactions or comparable cash transactions.   

F- 9 

    CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

   Stock-Based Compensation    
    
  Restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock options and performance units and shares are measured at the grant date fair value and amortized to stock compensation expense over the requisite service period.  The Company recorded   $55 million  ,   $48 million   and   $50 million   of stock compensation expense, which is included in operating costs and expenses and other operating expenses, net for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively.   
    
  The fair value of options granted is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and Monte Carlo simulations for options and restricted stock units with market conditions.  The grant date weighted average assumptions used during the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively, were: risk-free interest rate of   2.0%  ,   1.5%   and   1.5%  ; expected volatility of   36.9%  ,   37.8%   and   38.4%  , and expected lives of   6.5   years,   6.3   years and   6.3   years.  The grant date weighted average cost of equity used was   16.2%   during each of the years ended   December 31, 2013   and   2012  . Volatility assumptions were based on historical volatility of Charter and a peer group.  The Company s volatility assumptions represent management s best estimate and were partially based on historical volatility of a peer group because management does not believe Charter s pre-emergence from bankruptcy historical volatility to be representative of its future volatility.   Expected lives were calculated based on the simplified-method due to insufficient historical exercise data.  The valuations assume no dividends are paid.   
    
  Income Taxes    
    
  The Company recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities for temporary differences between the financial reporting basis and the tax basis of the Company s assets and liabilities and expected benefits of utilizing loss carryforwards.  The impact on deferred taxes of changes in tax rates and tax law, if any, applied to the years during which temporary differences are expected to be settled, are reflected in the consolidated financial statements in the period of enactment.  See Note 16.   
    
  Loss per Common Share    
    
  Basic loss per common share is computed by dividing the net loss by the weighted-average common shares outstanding during the respective periods.  Diluted loss per common share equals basic loss per common share for the periods presented, as the effect of stock options and other convertible securities are anti-dilutive because the Company incurred net losses.   
    
  Segments    
    
  The Company s operations are conducted through the use of a unified network and are managed and reported to its Chief Executive Officer ("CEO"), the Company's chief operating decision maker, on a consolidated basis.  The CEO assesses performance and allocates resources based on the consolidated results of operations.  Under this organizational and reporting structure, the Company has one reportable segment, broadband services.  
    
    3.    Acquisitions and Dispositions 
    
  Acquisition of Bresnan 
    
  On July 1, 2013, Charter and Charter Communications Operating, LLC ("Charter Operating") acquired Bresnan Broadband Holdings, LLC and its subsidiaries (collectively,  Bresnan ) from a wholly owned subsidiary of Cablevision Systems Corporation ("Cablevision"), for   $1.625 billion   in cash, as well as a working capital adjustment and a reduction for certain funded indebtedness of Bresnan.  Bresnan manages cable operating systems in Montana, Wyoming, Colorado and Utah.  Charter funded the purchase of Bresnan with a   $1.5 billion   term loan (see Note 8) and borrowings under the Charter Operating credit facilities.  

F- 10 

    CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

   The following unaudited pro forma financial information of Charter is based on the historical consolidated financial statements of Charter and the historical consolidated financial statements of Bresnan and is intended to provide information about how the acquisition of Bresnan and related financing may have affected Charter's historical consolidated financial statements if they had closed as of January 1, 2012. The pro forma financial information below is based on available information and assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable. The pro forma financial information is for illustrative and informational purposes only and is not intended to represent or be indicative of what Charter's financial condition or results of operations would have been had the transactions described above occurred on the date indicated. The pro forma financial information also should not be considered representative of Charter's future financial condition or results of operations.    

Transactions with Comcast 
  On April 25, 2014, the Company entered into a binding definitive agreement (the  Transactions Agreement ) with Comcast Corporation ( Comcast ), which contemplates the following transactions: (1) an asset purchase, (2) an asset exchange and (3) a contribution and spin-off transaction (collectively, the  Transactions ) as described in more detail below.  The Transactions Agreement calls for the Transactions to be consummated substantially contemporaneously with each other as promptly as practicable following the merger of a subsidiary of Comcast with Time Warner Cable Inc. ( TWC ) as previously announced by Comcast and TWC.  The completion of the Transactions will result in Charter acquiring approximately a net   1.3 million   existing TWC residential and commercial video customers.  
  Asset Purchase 
    
  At closing, the Transactions Agreement calls for the Company to acquire from Comcast certain cable systems currently owned by TWC serving approximately   1.4 million   video customers and all other assets and liabilities primarily related to such cable systems for cash consideration.  The Transactions Agreement calls for the Company to pay to Comcast the tax benefit of the step-up it receives in the tax basis of the assets.  The Transactions Agreement calls for such tax benefit to Charter to be paid as realized by the Company over an eight-year period, with an additional payment to be made at the end of such eight-year period in the amount of any remaining tax benefit (on a present value basis) not previously realized by Charter. 
  Asset Exchange 
  At closing, the Company and Comcast will exchange certain cable systems currently serving approximately   1.5 million   TWC video customers and approximately   1.6 million   Charter video customers and all other assets and liabilities primarily related to such cable systems.  Most tax gains associated with the Asset Exchange are expected to be offset by Charter s existing net operating losses. 
    
  Financing 
    
  Charter has received commitments from a number of leading Wall Street investment banks to provide incremental senior secured term loan facilities totaling up to   $8.4 billion   and a senior secured incremental revolving facility equal to   $500 million   under the Charter Operating credit facility.  Pursuant to that commitment, Charter has fully drawn on   $3.5 billion   term loan G commitments.  The amount of the commitments for incremental term loan facilities was further reduced by   $3.5 billion   at the closing of the offering of   $1.5 billion   aggregate principal amount of   5.50%   senior notes due 2022  (the "2022 Notes") and   $2.0 billion   aggregate principal amount of   5.75%   senior notes due 2024 (the "2024 Notes") (collectively, the "CCO Safari Notes") by CCOH Safari, LLC ("CCOH Safari").  Charter has   $1.4 billion   remaining in committed Charter Operating term loans.  The proceeds from the term loan G and the Notes are being held in escrow subject to the closing of the Transactions and are recorded on the Company's consolidated balance sheet as noncurrent restricted cash and cash equivalents.  The escrow for the CCOH Safari Notes continues  
      
  F- 11 

    CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

   until November 5, 2015.  The escrow for term loan G continues so long as we pre-fund interest and the release conditions can be satisfied.  The consideration for the assets acquired and transaction expenses will be financed with new indebtedness of Charter and is currently estimated at approximately   $7.2 billion  .  The proceeds of the incremental facilities and the Notes will be used by Charter for the purpose of financing the Asset Purchase, paying fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Asset Purchase and the other Transactions, for providing ongoing working capital and for other general corporate purposes of Charter Operating and its subsidiaries.  See Note 8.  
    
  Contribution and Spin-Off Transaction 
    
  CCH I, LLC ( CCH I ), a current indirect subsidiary of Charter, will be reorganized to be a direct subsidiary of Charter.  CCH I will then form a new subsidiary that will merge with Charter, through a tax-free reorganization and become the new holding company ( New Charter ) that will own   100%   of Charter and indirectly Charter Holdco.  New Charter will then acquire an approximate   33%   stake in a new publicly-traded cable provider to be spun-off by Comcast serving approximately   2.5 million   existing Comcast video customers (the "Spin-Off"). The cable systems will be contributed to Midwest Cable, Inc., which upon consummation of the Transactions, is expected to change its name to GreatLand Connections Inc. ( GreatLand Connections ).  New Charter will acquire its interest in GreatLand Connections by issuing New Charter stock to Comcast shareholders (including former TWC shareholders) as a result of a merger of a wholly owned subsidiary of New Charter with and into GreatLand Connections.  Comcast shareholders, including the former TWC shareholders, are expected to own approximately   67%   of GreatLand Connections, while New Charter is expected to directly own approximately   33%   of GreatLand Connections. GreatLand Connections expects to incur leverage of approximately   5   times its estimated pro forma EBITDA (as such term is defined by GreatLand Connections  financing sources for purposes of the financing) to fund a distribution to Comcast and issue notes to Comcast prior to the spin-off.  Additionally, the Company will provide services to GreatLand Connections, and the Company will be reimbursed the actual economic costs of such services, in addition to a fee of   4.25%   of GreatLand Connections' gross revenues. 
    
  The Asset Purchase, Asset Exchange and the acquisition of interests in GreatLand Connections will be valued at a   7.125   multiple of 2014 EBITDA (as defined by the parties), subject to certain post-closing adjustments. 
    
    4.    Allowance for Doubtful Accounts 
    
  Activity in the allowance for doubtful accounts is summarized as follows for the years presented:  

F- 12 

      CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

   5.    Property, Plant and Equipment 
    
  Property, plant and equipment consists of the following as of   December 31, 2014   and   2013  :  

The Company periodically evaluates the estimated useful lives used to depreciate its assets and the estimated amount of assets that will be abandoned or have minimal use in the future.  A significant change in assumptions about the extent or timing of future asset retirements, or in the Company s use of new technology and upgrade programs, could materially affect future depreciation expense.    
    
  Depreciation expense for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012   was   $1.8 billion  ,   $1.6 billion  , and   $1.4 billion  , respectively.  Property, plant and equipment increased   $515 million   as a result of cable system acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2013. 
    
    6.    Franchises, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
    
  Franchise rights represent the value attributed to agreements or authorizations with local and state authorities that allow access to homes in cable service areas.  For valuation purposes, they are defined as the future economic benefits of the right to solicit and service potential customers (customer marketing rights), and the right to deploy and market new services to potential customers (service marketing rights).   
    
  Management estimates the fair value of franchise rights at the date of acquisition and determines if the franchise has a finite life or an indefinite life. All franchises that qualify for indefinite life treatment are tested for impairment annually or more frequently as warranted by events or changes in circumstances.  In determining whether our franchises have an indefinite life, the Company considered the likelihood of franchise renewals, the expected costs of franchise renewals, and the technological state of the associated cable systems, with a view to whether or not it is in compliance with any technology upgrading requirements specified in a franchise agreement.  The Company has concluded that as of   December 31, 2014   and   2013   all of its franchises qualify for indefinite life treatment.  
    
  Franchise assets are aggregated into essentially inseparable units of accounting to conduct valuations.  The units of accounting generally represent geographical clustering of our cable systems into groups.  The Company assesses qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that an indefinite lived intangible asset has been impaired.  If, after this qualitative assessment, the Company determines that it is not more likely than not that an indefinite lived intangible asset has been impaired, then no further quantitative testing is necessary.  In completing the impairment testing, the Company evaluated the impact of various factors to the expected future cash flows attributable to its units of accounting and to the assumed discount rate which would be used to present value those cash flows. Such factors included macro-economic and industry conditions including the capital markets, regulatory, and competitive environment, and costs of programming and customer premise equipment along with changes to our organizational structure and strategies.  After consideration of these qualitative factors, the Company concluded that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the franchise  
      
  F- 13 

    CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

   assets in each unit of accounting exceeds the carrying value of such assets and therefore did not perform a quantitative analysis in 2014, 2013 or 2012.  
    
  If the Company is required to perform a quantitative analysis to test its franchise assets for impairment, the Company determines the estimated fair value utilizing an income approach model based on the present value of the estimated discrete future cash flows attributable to each of the intangible assets identified assuming a discount rate.  The fair value of franchises for impairment testing is determined based on estimated discrete discounted future cash flows using assumptions consistent with internal forecasts.  The franchise after-tax cash flow is calculated as the after-tax cash flow generated by the potential customers obtained (less the anticipated customer churn), and the new services added to those customers in future periods.  The sum of the present value of the franchises' after-tax cash flow in years 1 through 10 and the continuing value of the after-tax cash flow beyond year 10 yields the fair value of the franchises. 
    
  This approach makes use of unobservable factors such as projected revenues, expenses, capital expenditures, and a discount rate applied to the estimated cash flows. The determination of the discount rate is based on a weighted average cost of capital approach, which uses a market participant s cost of equity and after-tax cost of debt and reflects the risks inherent in the cash flows.  The Company estimates discounted future cash flows using reasonable and appropriate assumptions including among others, penetration rates for video, high-speed Internet, and voice; revenue growth rates; operating margins; and capital expenditures.  The assumptions are based on the Company s and its peers  historical operating performance adjusted for current and expected competitive and economic factors surrounding the cable industry.  The estimates and assumptions made in the Company s valuations are inherently subject to significant uncertainties, many of which are beyond its control, and there is no assurance that these results can be achieved. The primary assumptions for which there is a reasonable possibility of the occurrence of a variation that would significantly affect the measurement value include the assumptions regarding revenue growth, programming expense growth rates, the amount and timing of capital expenditures and the discount rate utilized.      
    
  Goodwill is tested for impairment as of November 30 of each year  ,   or more frequently as warranted by events or changes in circumstances.  Accounting guidance also permits a qualitative assessment for goodwill to determine whether it is more likely than not that the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value.  If, after this qualitative assessment, the Company determines that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount then no further quantitative testing would be necessary.  If the Company is required to perform the two-step test under the accounting guidance, the first step involves a comparison of the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount.  If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not considered impaired and the second step of the goodwill impairment is not necessary. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, then the second step of the goodwill impairment test must be performed, and a comparison of the implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill is compared to its carrying amount to determine the amount of impairment, if any.   The fair value of the reporting unit, when performing the second step of the goodwill impairment test, is determined using a consistent income approach model as that used for franchise impairment testing.  As with the Company's franchise impairment testing, the Company elected to perform a qualitative assessment for its goodwill impairment testing in 2014, 2013 and 2012 and concluded that goodwill is not impaired.  
    
  Customer relationships, for valuation purposes, represent the value of the business relationship with existing customers (less the anticipated customer churn), and are calculated by projecting the discrete future after-tax cash flows from these customers, including the right to deploy and market additional services to these customers.  The present value of these after-tax cash flows yields the fair value of the customer relationships.  The use of different valuation assumptions or definitions of franchises or customer relationships, such as our inclusion of the value of selling additional services to our current customers within customer relationships versus franchises, could significantly impact our valuations and any resulting impairment.  Customer relationships are amortized on an accelerated method over useful lives of   8  -  15    years based on the period over which current customers are expected to generate cash flows.  Customer relationships are evaluated for impairment upon the occurrence of events or changes in circumstances indicating that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.  Customer relationships are deemed impaired when the carrying value exceeds the projected undiscounted future cash flows associated with the customer relationships. No impairment of customer relationships was recorded in the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   or   2012  . 
    
  The fair value of trademarks is determined using the relief-from-royalty method which applies a fair royalty rate to estimated revenue.  Royalty rates are estimated based on a review of market royalty rates in the communications and entertainment industries.   As the Company expects to continue to use each trademark indefinitely, trademarks have been assigned an indefinite life and are tested annually for impairment using either a qualitative analysis or quantitative analysis as elected by management. The qualitative  
      
  F- 14 

    CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

   analysis did not identify any factors that would indicate that it was more likely than not that the fair value of trademarks were less than the carrying value and thus resulted in no impairment in 2014, 2013 or 2012.  
    
  As of   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , indefinite lived and finite-lived intangible assets are presented in the following table:  

Amortization expense related to customer relationships and other intangible assets for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,    2013   and   2012   was   $299 million  ,   $299 million   and   $293 million  , respectively.  
    
  The Company expects amortization expense on its finite-lived intangible assets will be as follows.   

Actual amortization expense in future periods could differ from these estimates as a result of new intangible asset acquisitions or divestitures, changes in useful lives, impairments and other relevant factors.  

F- 15 

    CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

   7.    Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities 
    
  Accounts payable and accrued liabilities consist of the following as of   December 31, 2014   and   2013  :  

F- 16 

      CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

   8.    Long-Term Debt 
    
  Long-term debt consists of the following as of   December 31, 2014   and   2013  :  

The accreted values presented above represent the principal amount of the debt less the original issue discount at the time of sale, plus the accretion to the balance sheet date.  However, the amount that is currently payable if the debt becomes immediately due is equal to the principal amount of the debt.  The Company has availability under its credit facilities of approximately   $817 million   as of   December 31, 2014  , and as such, debt maturing in the next twelve months is classified as long-term.  In addition, a   $500 million   revolver extension is currently committed and available to Charter. The availability of this revolver is not contingent or related to the closing of the Transactions.  See Note 3. 
    
  Loss on extinguishment of debt consists of the following for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  : 

F- 17 

      CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

CCOH Safari Notes 
    
  In October 2014, Charter created CCOH Safari as a   100%   wholly-owned indirect finance subsidiary of Charter. In November 2014, CCOH Safari, closed on transactions in which it issued   $1.5 billion   aggregate principal amount of   5.500%   senior notes due 2022 and   $2.0 billion   aggregate principal amount of   5.750%   senior notes due 2024.  The net proceeds of the offering and sale of the CCOH Safari Notes and the next semi-annual interest payment are being held in escrow to fund a portion of the purchase of certain assets pursuant to the Transactions. The release of the proceeds from the escrow will be subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including the closing of the Transactions. Substantially concurrently with the escrow release, the CCOH Safari Notes will become obligations of CCO Holdings and CCO Holdings Capital.  CCOH Safari will merge into CCO Holdings.  Should the Transactions Agreement be terminated prior to the consummation of the Transactions, or upon expiration of the escrow agreement on November 5, 2015, such amounts placed in escrow must be used to settle amounts outstanding under the CCOH Safari Notes at par value.  The amounts held in escrow are classified as noncurrent restricted cash and cash equivalents in the Company's consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2014.  See Note 3. 
    
  The CCOH Safari Notes are guaranteed by Charter.  Initially, they are senior debt obligations of CCOH Safari.  Upon release of the proceeds from escrow, the CCOH Safari Notes will be senior debt obligations of CCO Holdings and CCO Holdings Capital Corp. and rank equally with all other current and future unsecured, unsubordinated obligations of CCO Holdings and CCO Holdings Capital Corp.  The CCOH Safari Notes are structurally subordinated to all obligations of subsidiaries of CCO Holdings, including the Charter Operating and CCO Safari, LLC ("CCO Safari") credit facilities.   
    
  Following the release of the proceeds, CCO Holdings may redeem some or all of the CCOH Safari Notes at any time at a premium.  The optional redemption price declines to   100%   of the respective series' principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on or after varying dates in 2017 through 2020 with respect to the 2022 Notes and 2019 through 2022 with respect to the 2024 Notes. 
    
  In addition, at any time following the release of the proceeds and prior to December 1, 2017, with respect to the 2022 Notes, and December 1, 2019, with respect to the 2024 Notes, CCO Holdings and CCO Holdings Capital Corp. may redeem up to   40%   of the aggregate principal amount of such CCOH Safari Notes at a redemption price at a premium plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, with the net cash proceeds of one or more equity offerings (as defined in the indenture); provided that certain conditions are met. 
    
  In the event of specified change of control events, CCO Holdings must offer to purchase the CCOH Safari Notes from the holders at a purchase price equal to   101%   of the total principal amount of the notes, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. 
    
  CCO Holdings Notes 
    
  The CCO Holdings notes are guaranteed by Charter.  They are senior debt obligations of CCO Holdings and CCO Holdings Capital Corp. and rank equally with all other current and future unsecured, unsubordinated obligations of CCO Holdings and CCO Holdings Capital Corp.  The CCO Holdings notes are structurally subordinated to all obligations of subsidiaries of CCO Holdings, including the Charter Operating credit facilities.   
    
  CCO Holdings may redeem some or all of the CCO Holdings notes at any time at a premium.  The optional redemption price declines to   100%   of the respective series  principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on or after varying dates in 2016 through 2021.  
    
  In addition, at any time prior to varying dates in 2015 through 2016, CCO Holdings may redeem up to   35%   of the aggregate principal amount of the notes at a redemption price at a premium plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, with the net cash proceeds of one or more equity offerings (as defined in the indenture); provided that certain conditions are met. 
    
  In the event of specified change of control events, CCO Holdings must offer to purchase the outstanding CCO Holdings notes from the holders at a purchase price equal to   101%   of the total principal amount of the notes, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. 
      
  F- 18 

      CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

High-Yield Restrictive Covenants; Limitation on Indebtedness.    
    
  The indentures governing the CCO Holdings notes and CCOH Safari notes (following the release of proceeds from escrow) contain certain covenants that restrict the ability of CCO Holdings, CCO Holdings Capital Corp. and all of their restricted subsidiaries to:  

incur additional debt; 
                
    pay dividends on equity or repurchase equity; 
                
    make investments; 
                
    sell all or substantially all of their assets or merge with or into other companies; 
                
    sell assets; 
                
    in the case of restricted subsidiaries, create or permit to exist dividend or payment restrictions with respect to CCO Holdings, guarantee their parent companies debt, or issue specified equity interests;  
                
    engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and 
                
    grant liens. 
       
  The above limitations in certain circumstances regarding incurrence of debt, payment of dividends and making investments contained in the indentures of CCO Holdings and CCOH Safari, permit CCO Holdings and its restricted subsidiaries to perform the above, so long as, after giving pro forma effect to the above, the leverage ratio would be below a specified level for the issuer.  The leverage ratio under the indentures is 6.0 to 1. 
    
  Charter Operating Credit Facilities 
    
  The Charter Operating credit facilities have an outstanding principal amount of   $3.7 billion   at   December 31, 2014   as follows:  

A term loan E with a remaining principal amount of approximately   $1.5 billion  , which is repayable in equal quarterly installments and aggregating   $15 million   in each loan year, with the remaining balance due at final maturity on July 1, 2020.  Pricing on term loan E is LIBOR plus   2.25%   with a LIBOR floor of   0.75%  ; 
                
    A term loan F with a remaining principal amount of approximately   $1.2 billion  , which is repayable in equal quarterly installments and aggregating   $12 million   in each loan year, with the remaining balance due at final maturity on January 3, 2021.  Pricing on term loan F is LIBOR plus   2.25%   with a LIBOR floor of   0.75%  ; and 
        
  Amounts outstanding under the Charter Operating credit facilities bear interest, at Charter Operating s election, at a base rate or LIBOR (  0.17%   as of   December 31, 2014   and   December 31, 2013  ), as defined, plus an applicable margin.   
    
  The Charter Operating credit facilities also allow us to enter into incremental term loans in the future, with amortization as set forth in the notices establishing such term loans.  Although the Charter Operating credit facilities allow for the incurrence of a certain amount of incremental term loans subject to pro-forma compliance with its financial maintenance covenants, no assurance can be given that the Company could obtain additional incremental term loans in the future if Charter Operating sought to do so or what amount of incremental term loans would be allowable at any given time under the terms of the Charter Operating credit facilities. 
    
  The obligations of Charter Operating under the Charter Operating credit facilities are guaranteed by Charter Operating s immediate parent company, CCO Holdings, and subsidiaries of Charter Operating.  The obligations are also secured by (i) a lien on substantially all of the assets of Charter Operating and its subsidiaries, to the extent such lien can be perfected under the Uniform Commercial Code by the filing of a financing statement, and (ii) a pledge by CCO Holdings of the equity interests owned by it in any of Charter Operating s subsidiaries, as well as inter-company obligations owing to it by any of such entities. 

F- 19 

      CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

   CCO Safari Credit Facility 
    
  In September 2014, Charter Operating entered into a new term loan G facility pursuant to the terms of the Charter Operating credit agreement providing for a   $3.5 billion   term loan maturing in 2021.  Pricing on the term loan G was set at LIBOR plus   3.50%   with a LIBOR floor of   0.75%   and issued at a price of   99.50%   of the aggregate principal amount.  The term loan G forms a portion of the incremental facilities commitments as announced by Charter in July 2014 that will be used to fund the purchase of certain assets pursuant to the Transactions.  Charter Operating assigned all of its obligations with respect to the term loan G and transferred all of the proceeds from the term loan G to a newly-created subsidiary, CCO Safari, which is considered a Non-Recourse Subsidiary under Charter Operating s credit agreement, and CCO Safari placed the funds in an escrow account pending closing of the Transactions.  The administrative agent has a perfected first priority security interest in the escrow funds on behalf of the lenders that are a party to the CCO Safari credit facility.  The amounts borrowed under the term loan G facility are not considered when calculating the leverage ratio on CCO Holdings' indentures as CCO Safari has been designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary under CCO Holdings' indenture.  At closing of the Transactions, subject to certain conditions, Charter Operating will re-assume the obligations in respect of the term loan G under the Charter Operating credit agreement and the term loan G will be subject to the terms and conditions of the Charter Operating credit facilities.  Such amounts, along with required original issuance discount and one month of interest, were placed in escrow and classified as noncurrent restricted cash and cash equivalents in the Company's consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2014.  Should the Transactions Agreement be terminated prior to the consummation of the Transactions, such amounts placed in escrow must be used to settle amounts outstanding under the term loan G at par value less the original issue discount.  See Note 3. 
    
  Charter Operating Credit Facilities   Restrictive Covenants    
    
  The Charter Operating credit facilities contain representations and warranties, and affirmative and negative covenants customary for financings of this type. The financial covenants measure performance against standards set for leverage to be tested as of the end of each quarter.  The Charter Operating credit facilities contain provisions requiring mandatory loan prepayments under specific circumstances, including in connection with certain sales of assets, so long as the proceeds have not been reinvested in the business. Additionally, the Charter Operating credit facilities provisions contain an allowance for restricted payments so long as the consolidated leverage ratio is no greater than   3.5   after giving pro forma effect to such restricted payment. The Charter Operating credit facilities permit Charter Operating and its subsidiaries to make distributions to pay interest on the currently outstanding subordinated and parent company indebtedness, provided that, among other things, no default has occurred and is continuing under the Charter Operating credit facilities. 
     
  The events of default under the Charter Operating credit facilities include, among other things:  

the failure to make payments when due or within the applicable grace period; 
                
    the failure to comply with specified covenants including the covenant to maintain the consolidated leverage ratio at or below   5.0   to   1.0   and the consolidated first lien leverage ratio at or below   4.0   to   1.0  ; 
                
    the failure to pay or the occurrence of events that cause or permit the acceleration of other indebtedness owing by CCO Holdings, Charter Operating, or Charter Operating s subsidiaries in aggregate principal amounts in excess of   $100 million  ; and 
                
    similar to provisions contained in the note indentures and credit facility, the consummation of any change of control transaction resulting in any person or group having power, directly or indirectly, to vote more than   50%   of the ordinary voting power for the management of Charter Operating on a fully diluted basis and the occurrence of a ratings event including a downgrade in the corporate family rating during a ratings decline period. 
       
  CCO Safari Credit Facility   Restrictive Covenants 
    
  The term loan G is subject to the terms and conditions of a separate credit facility and escrow agreement until Charter Operating re-assumes its obligations for the loan.  The CCO Safari credit facility contains customary representations and warranties and affirmative covenants with limited negative covenants prohibiting CCO Safari from engaging in any material activities other than performing its obligations under the credit facility and the escrow agreement or otherwise issuing other indebtedness pursuant to escrow arrangements similar to the CCO Safari credit facility and escrow agreement.  As required by the CCO Safari credit facility, CCO Safari, Bank of America, N.A., and U.S. Bank, N.A., as escrow agent, entered into an escrow agreement pursuant to which, CCO Safari is required to maintain an escrow account over which the administrative agent has a perfected first priority security  
      
  F- 20 

      CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

   interest on behalf of the CCO Safari credit facility lenders.  The events of default under the CCO Safari credit facility include, among others:   

the failure to make payments when due or within the applicable grace period; 
                
    any acceleration of the loans and termination of the commitments under the Charter Operating credit facilities; and 
                
    the escrow agreement shall cease to be in full force and effect or the lien in the escrow account shall cease to be enforceable with the same effect and priority. 
       
  Limitations on Distributions 
    
  Distributions by the Company s subsidiaries to a parent company for payment of principal on parent company notes are restricted under the indentures and credit facilities discussed above, unless there is no default under the applicable indenture and credit facilities, and unless each applicable subsidiary s leverage ratio test is met at the time of such distribution.  As of   December 31, 2014  , there was no default under any of these indentures or credit facilities.  Distributions by Charter Operating for payment of principal on parent company notes are further restricted by the covenants in its credit facilities. 
    
  In addition to the limitation on distributions under the various indentures discussed above, distributions by the Company s subsidiaries may only be made if they have  surplus  as defined in the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act.   
    
  Liquidity and Future Principal Payments 
    
  The Company continues to have significant amounts of debt, and its business requires significant cash to fund principal and interest payments on its debt, capital expenditures and ongoing operations.  As set forth below, the Company has significant future principal payments beginning in 2017 and beyond.  The Company continues to monitor the capital markets, and it expects to undertake refinancing transactions and utilize free cash flow and cash on hand to further extend or reduce the maturities of its principal obligations.  The timing and terms of any refinancing transactions will be subject to market conditions. 
    
  Based upon outstanding indebtedness as of   December 31, 2014  , the amortization of term loans, and the maturity dates for all senior and subordinated notes, total future principal payments on the total borrowings under all debt agreements as of   December 31, 2014  , are as follows:  

9.    Treasury Stock 
    
  In December 2011, the Company purchased, in a private transaction with a shareholder,   750,000   shares at   $55.18   for a total of   $41 million  .  The Company received   700,668   of the shares prior to December 31, 2011, with   49,332   shares received in January 2012.  
    
  During the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , the Company withheld   141,257  ,   150,258   and   129,417   shares, respectively, of its common stock in payment of   $19 million  ,   $15 million   and   $9 million  , respectively, of tax withholdings owed by employees upon vesting of restricted shares. 

F- 21 

    CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

   In December 2014 and 2013, Charter's board of directors approved the retirement of treasury stock and   141,257   and   150,258   shares of treasury stock were retired as of   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , respectively.  
    
  The Company accounted for treasury stock using the cost method and the treasury shares upon repurchase were reflected on the Company s consolidated balance sheets as a component of total shareholders  equity.  Upon retirement, these treasury shares were allocated between additional paid-in capital and accumulated deficit based on the cost of original issue included in additional paid-in capital. 
    
    10.    Common Stock 
    
  Charter s Class A common stock and Class B common stock are identical except with respect to certain voting, transfer and conversion rights.  Holders of Class A common stock are entitled to   one   vote per share and holders of Class B common stock are entitled to votes equaling   35%   of the voting interests in Charter on a fully diluted basis.  The Company currently does not have any outstanding Class B Common Stock.  
    
  In 2014 and 2013, the Company issued approximately   5.2 million    and   4.5 million   shares, respectively, of Charter Class A common stock as a result of exercises by holders who received warrants pursuant to the Joint Plan of Reorganization upon the Company's emergence from bankruptcy in 2009.   The exercises resulted in proceeds to the Company of approximately   $90 million   and   $76 million  , respectively.  As of December 31, 2014, there were no warrants outstanding.   
    
  The following table summarizes our shares outstanding for the three years ended   December 31, 2014  : 

F- 22 

      CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

   11.     Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities 
    
  The Company uses interest rate derivative instruments to manage its interest costs and reduce the Company s exposure to increases in floating interest rates.  The Company manages its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by maintaining a mix of fixed and variable rate debt.  Using interest rate derivative instruments, the Company agrees to exchange, at specified intervals through 2017, the difference between fixed and variable interest amounts calculated by reference to agreed-upon notional principal amounts.  The Company does not hold or issue derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes.    
    
  The Company, until de-designating in the three months ended March 31, 2013, had certain interest rate derivative instruments that were designated as cash flow hedging instruments for GAAP purposes.  Such instruments effectively converted variable interest payments on certain debt instruments into fixed payments.  For qualifying hedges, realized derivative gains and losses offset related results on hedged items in the consolidated statements of operations.  The Company formally documented, designated and assessed the effectiveness of transactions that received hedge accounting.   
    
  The effect of interest rate derivatives on the Company s consolidated balance sheets is presented in the table below: 

Changes in the fair value of interest rate derivative instruments that were designated as hedging instruments of the variability of cash flows associated with floating-rate debt obligations, and that met effectiveness criteria were reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss.  The amounts were subsequently reclassified as an increase or decrease to interest expense in the same periods in which the related interest on the floating-rate debt obligations affected earnings (losses).  
    
  Due to repayment of variable rate credit facility debt without a LIBOR floor, certain interest rate derivative instruments were de-designated as cash flow hedges during the three months ended March 31, 2013, as they no longer met the criteria for cash flow hedging specified by GAAP.  In addition, on March 31, 2013, the remaining interest rate derivative instruments that continued to be highly effective cash flow hedges for GAAP purposes were electively de-designated.  On the date of de-designation, the Company completed a final measurement test for each interest rate derivative instrument to determine any ineffectiveness and such amount was reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss into gain on derivative instruments, net in the Company's consolidated statements of operations.  While these interest rate derivative instruments are no longer designated as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes, management continues to believe such instruments are closely correlated with the respective debt, thus managing associated risk.  Interest rate derivative instruments not designated as hedges are marked to fair value, with the impact recorded as a gain or loss on derivative instruments, net in the Company's consolidated statements of operations.  The balance that remains in accumulated other comprehensive loss for these interest rate derivative instruments will be amortized over the respective lives of the contracts and recorded as a loss within gain (loss) on derivative instruments, net in the Company's consolidated statements of operations.  The estimated net amount of existing losses that are reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss as of   December 31, 2014   that is expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months is approximately   $9 million  . 

F- 23 

      CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

   The effects of derivative instruments on the Company s consolidated statements of comprehensive loss and consolidated statements of operations is presented in the table below. 
                                            
    Year Ended December 31, 2014 
        
    2014 
      
    2013 
      
    2012 

Gain (loss) on derivative instruments, net: 

Change in fair value of interest rate derivative instruments not designated as cash flow hedges 
    $ 
    12 

$ 
    38 

$ 

Loss reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss into earnings as a result of cash flow hedge discontinuance 
    (19 
    ) 
      
    (27 
    ) 

$ 
    (7 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    11 

$ 

Interest expense: 

Loss reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss into interest expense 
    $ 

$ 
    (10 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    (36 
    ) 

As of   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , the Company had   $1.4 billion   and   $2.2 billion   in notional amounts of interest rate derivative instruments outstanding.  As of   December 31, 2014  , this includes   $150 million   in delayed start interest rate derivative instruments that become effective in March 2015.  Also in March 2015,   $300 million   of currently effective swaps expire and therefore the notional amount of currently effective interest rate derivative instruments will decrease. 
    
  The notional amounts of interest rate instruments do not represent amounts exchanged by the parties and, thus, are not a measure of exposure to credit loss.  The amounts exchanged were determined by reference to the notional amount and the other terms of the contracts. 
    
    12.    Fair Value Measurements 
    
  The accounting guidance     establishes a three-level hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements, based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date, as follows: 

Level 1   inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. 
                
    Level 2   inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument. 
                
    Level 3   inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement. 
       
  Financial Assets and Liabilities 
    
  The Company has estimated the fair value of its financial instruments as of   December 31, 2014   and   2013   using available market information or other appropriate valuation methodologies.  Considerable judgment, however, is required in interpreting market data to develop the estimates of fair value.  Accordingly, the estimates presented in the accompanying consolidated financial statements are not necessarily indicative of the amounts the Company would realize in a current market exchange.  
    
  The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, payables and other current assets and liabilities approximate fair value because of the short maturity of those instruments.    
    
  The Company's restricted cash and cash equivalents at   December 31, 2014     are primarily invested in money market funds and 90-day or less commercial paper.  The money market funds are valued at the closing price reported by the fund sponsor from an actively traded exchange and the commercial paper is valued at cost plus the accretion of the discount on a yield to maturity basis, which approximates fair value.  The money market funds and commercial paper  potentially subject us to concentrations of credit  
      
  F- 24 

    CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

   risk.  The amount invested within any one financial instrument did not exceed   $550 million   during the year ended December 31, 2014.  As of December 31, 2014, there were no significant concentrations of financial instruments in a single investee, industry or geographic location. 
    
  The interest rate derivatives are valued using a present value calculation based on an implied forward LIBOR curve (adjusted for Charter Operating s or counterparties  credit risk). The weighted average pay rate for the Company s currently effective interest rate swaps was   1.87%   and   2.17%   at   December 31, 2014   and   2013   (exclusive of applicable spreads). 
    
  The Company's financial instruments that are accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis are presented in the table below. 

A summary of the carrying value and fair value of the Company s debt at   December 31, 2014   and   2013   is as follows:  

The estimated fair value of the Company s senior notes at   December 31, 2014   and   2013   is based on quoted market prices in active markets and is classified within Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy, while the estimated fair value of the Company's credit facilities is based on quoted market prices in inactive markets and is classified within Level 2.   
    
  Non-financial Assets and Liabilities 
    
  The Company s non-financial assets such as franchises, property, plant, and equipment, and other intangible assets are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis; however they are subject to fair value adjustments in certain circumstances, such as when there is evidence that an impairment may exist.    No   impairments were recorded in   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  .   

F- 25 

      CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

   13.     Operating Costs and Expenses 
    
  Operating costs and expenses consist of the following for the years presented: 

Programming costs consist primarily of costs paid to programmers for basic, premium, digital, video on demand, and pay-per-view programming.  Franchise, regulatory and connectivity costs represent payments to franchise and regulatory authorities and costs directly related to providing Internet and voice services.  Costs to service customers include residential and commercial costs related to field operations, network operations and customer care including internal and third party labor for installations, service and repairs, maintenance, billing and collection, occupancy and vehicle costs.  Marketing costs represents the costs of marketing to our current and potential commercial and residential customers including labor costs.  Other includes bad debt expense, corporate overhead, commercial and advertising sales expenses, property tax and insurance and stock compensation expense, among others.  
    
    14.     Other Operating Expenses, Net 
    
  Other operating expenses, net consist of the following for the years presented: 

Merger and acquisition costs 
    
  Merger and acquisition costs represents costs incurred in connection with merger and acquisition transactions, such as advisory, legal and accounting fees, among others. 
    
  Special charges, net 
    
  Special charges, net for the years ended   2014  ,   2013   and   2012   primarily include severance charges and net amounts of litigation settlements.   
    
  (Gain) loss on sale of assets, net 
    
  (Gain) loss on sale of assets represents the gain or loss recognized on the sales and disposals of fixed assets and cable systems.  

F- 26 

      CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

   15.         Stock Compensation Plans 
    
  Charter s 2009 Stock Incentive Plan provides for grants of non-qualified stock options, incentive stock options, stock appreciation rights, dividend equivalent rights, performance units and performance shares, share awards, phantom stock, restricted stock units and restricted stock.  Directors, officers and other employees of the Company and its subsidiaries, as well as others performing consulting services for the Company, are eligible for grants under the 2009 Stock Incentive Plan.  The 2009 Stock Incentive Plan allows for the issuance of up to   14 million   shares of Charter Class A common stock (or units convertible into Charter Class A common stock). 
    
  Stock options granted prior to 2014 generally vest annually over   three   or   four   years from either the grant date or delayed vesting commencement dates.   Stock options generally expire   ten   years from the grant date. Restricted stock vests annually over a   one   to   four  -year period beginning from the date of grant.  Certain stock options and restricted stock vest based on achievement of stock price hurdles.  Restricted stock units have no voting rights, and restricted stock units granted prior to 2014 vest ratably over   three   or   four   years from either the grant date or delayed vesting commencement dates.  Stock options and restricted stock units granted in 2014 cliff vest over   three   years.  As of   December 31, 2014  , total unrecognized compensation remaining to be recognized in future periods totaled   $66 million   for stock options,   $9 million   for restricted stock and   $26 million   for restricted stock units and the weighted average period over which they are expected to be recognized is   2   years for stock options,   1   years for restricted stock and   2   years for restricted stock units.    
    
  The Company recorded   $55 million  ,   $48 million   and   $50 million   of stock compensation expense for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively, which is included in operating costs and expenses. 
    
  A summary of the activity for the Company s stock options for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , is as follows (amounts in thousands, except per share data):   

F- 27 

      CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

   A summary of the activity for the Company s restricted stock for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , is as follows (amounts in thousands, except per share data):  

A summary of the activity for the Company s restricted stock units for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , is as follows (amounts in thousands, except per share data):  

16.    Income Taxes   
    
  All of Charter s operations are held through Charter Holdco and its direct and indirect subsidiaries.  Charter Holdco and the majority of its subsidiaries are generally limited liability companies that are not subject to income tax.  However, certain of these limited liability companies are subject to state income tax.  In addition, the indirect subsidiaries that are corporations are subject to federal and state income tax.  All of the remaining taxable income, gains, losses, deductions and credits of Charter Holdco are passed through to Charter and its direct subsidiaries.   
    
  For the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013  , and   2012  , the Company recorded deferred income tax expense and benefits as shown below.  Income tax expense is recognized primarily through increases in deferred tax liabilities related to the Company's investment in Charter Holdco, as well as through current federal and state income tax expense and increases in the deferred tax liabilities of certain of its indirect corporate subsidiaries.  Income tax benefits are realized through reductions in the deferred tax liabilities related to Charter s investment in Charter Holdco, as well as the deferred tax liabilities of certain of Charter s indirect  
      
  F- 28 

    CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

   corporate subsidiaries.  The tax provision in future periods will vary based on current and future temporary differences, as well as future operating results. 
    
  Current and deferred income tax expense is as follows:  

Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2013 decreased compared to the corresponding prior period, primarily as a result of step-ups in basis of indefinite-lived assets for tax, but not GAAP purposes, including the effects of partnership gains related to financing transactions and a partnership restructuring, which decreased the Company's net deferred tax liability related to indefinite-lived assets by   $137 million  . 
    
  Of the   $137 million   decrease in net deferred tax liability,   $101 million   of deferred tax benefits correspond to gains recognized by corporate subsidiaries of Charter, which are partners in Charter Holdco, and resulted primarily from the repayment of Charter Operating credit facility debt with proceeds from the CCO Holdings notes issued in March 2013.  The repayment of Charter Operating credit facility debt, which is not guaranteed by Charter, with proceeds from the notes, which are guaranteed by Charter, had the effect of reducing the amount of debt allocable to the non-guarantor corporate subsidiaries of Charter.  For partnership tax purposes, the reduction in the amount of non-guaranteed debt available to allocate to these corporate subsidiaries caused them to recognize gains due to limited basis in their partnership interests in Charter Holdco.  These gains result in a step-up in the underlying tax basis of Charter Holdco's assets and a corresponding reduction in the deferred tax liabilities for financial reporting purposes.  In addition, on December 31, 2013, Charter restructured one of its tax partnerships which resulted in a   $405 million   net step-up to primarily intangible assets and a deferred income tax benefit of   $36 million   due to a shift in step-ups to indefinite-lived intangibles.  The tax provision in future periods will vary based on various factors including changes in the Company's deferred tax liabilities attributable to indefinite-lived intangibles, as well as future operating results, however the Company does not anticipate having such a large reduction in tax expense attributable to these items unless it enters into similar future financing or restructuring transactions.  The ultimate impact on the tax provision of such future financing and restructuring activities, if any, will be dependent on the underlying facts and circumstances at the time. 

F- 29 

    CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

   The Company s effective tax rate differs from that derived by applying the applicable federal income tax rate of   35%   for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013  , and   2012  , respectively, as follows:  

For the year ended December 31, 2012 , the change in valuation allowance includes an increase of   $4 million   related to adjustments to cash flow hedges included in other comprehensive loss.  In addition, the change in the valuation allowance above for the year ended December 31, 2014 differs from the change between the beginning and ending deferred tax position due to a reduction of certain deferred tax assets and valuation allowance with no impact to the consolidated statements of operations. 
    
  The tax effects of these temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at   December 31, 2014   and   2013   are presented below. 

F- 30 

    CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

   Included in net deferred tax liabilities above is net current deferred tax assets of   $26 million   and   $16 million   as of   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , respectively, included in prepaid expenses and other current assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of the Company.  Net deferred tax liabilities included approximately   $236 million   and   $226 million   at   December 31, 2014   and   2013  ,  respectively, relating to certain indirect subsidiaries of Charter Holdco that file separate federal or state income tax returns.  The remainder of the Company's net deferred tax liability arose from Charter's investment in Charter Holdco, and was largely attributable to the characterization of franchises for financial reporting purposes as indefinite-lived.  
    
  In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will be realized.  Due to the Company s history of losses and the limitations imposed under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, discussed below, on Charter s ability to use existing loss carryforwards in the future, valuation allowances have been established except for future taxable income that will result from the reversal of existing temporary differences for which deferred tax liabilities are recognized.  Realization of deferred tax assets is dependent on generating sufficient taxable income prior to expiration of the loss carryforwards.  The amount of the deferred tax assets considered realizable and, therefore, reflected in the consolidated balance sheet, would be increased at such time that it is more-likely-than-not future taxable income will be realized during the carryforward period.  The Company periodically evaluates the facts and circumstances surrounding this assessment and, at the time this consideration is met, an adjustment to reverse some portion of the existing valuation allowance would result.     
    
  As of   December 31, 2014  , Charter and its indirect corporate subsidiaries had approximately   $9.5 billion   of federal tax net operating loss carryforwards resulting in a gross deferred tax asset of approximately   $3.3 billion  .  Federal tax net operating loss carryforwards expire in the years 2020 through 2034.  These losses resulted from the operations of Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries.  In addition, as of   December 31, 2014  , Charter and its indirect corporate subsidiaries had state tax net operating loss carryforwards, resulting in a gross deferred tax asset (net of federal tax benefit) of approximately   $321 million  .  State tax net operating loss carryforwards generally expire in the years 2015 through 2034.  Included in the loss carryforwards is   $129 million   of loss, the tax benefit of which will be recorded through equity when realized as a reduction of income tax payable. 
    
  On May 1, 2013, Liberty Media Corporation ( Liberty Media ) completed its purchase of a   27%   beneficial interest in Charter (see Note 17). Upon closing, Charter experienced a second  ownership change  as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code resulting in a second set of limitations on Charter s use of its existing federal and state net operating losses, capital losses, and tax credit carryforwards. The first ownership change limitations that applied as a result of our emergence from bankruptcy in 2009 will also continue to apply.  As of   December 31, 2014  ,   $5.3 billion   of federal tax loss carryforwards are unrestricted and available for Charter s immediate use, while approximately   $4.2 billion   of federal tax loss carryforwards are still subject to Section 382 and other restrictions. Pursuant to these restrictions, Charter estimates that approximately   $2.0 billion   and   $400 million   in the years 2015 and 2016, respectively, and an additional   $226 million   annually over each of the next eight years of federal tax loss carryforwards should become unrestricted and available for Charter's use.  Since the limitation amounts accumulate for future use to the extent they are not utilized in any given year, Charter believes its loss carryforwards should become fully available to offset future taxable income, if any.  Charter s state loss carryforwards and indirect corporate subsidiaries  loss carryforwards are subject to similar, but varying limitations on their future use.  If the Company was to experience another  ownership change  in the future, its ability to use its loss carryforwards could be subject to further limitations. 
  In determining the Company s tax provision for financial reporting purposes, the Company establishes a reserve for uncertain tax positions unless such positions are determined to be  more likely than not  of being sustained upon examination, based on their technical merits. There is considerable judgment involved in determining whether positions taken on the tax return are  more likely than not  of being sustained.  The Company did not have any unrecognized tax benefits as of   December 31, 2014   and   2013  . 
    
  No tax years for Charter or Charter Holdco, for income tax purposes, are currently under examination by the IRS.  Tax years ending 2011 through 2013 remain subject to examination and assessment.  Years prior to 2011 remain open solely for purposes of examination of Charter s loss and credit carryforwards. 
    
    17.    Related Party Transactions 
    
  The following sets forth certain transactions in which the Company and the directors, executive officers, and affiliates of the Company are involved or, in the case of the management arrangements, subsidiaries that are debt issuers that pay certain of their parent companies for services. 

F- 31 

    CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

   Charter is a party to management arrangements with Charter Holdco and certain of its subsidiaries.  Under these agreements, Charter and Charter Holdco provide management services for the cable systems owned or operated by their subsidiaries.  Costs associated with providing these services are charged directly to the Company s operating subsidiaries and are included within operating costs and expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.  Such costs totaled   $346 million  ,   $305 million  , and   $247 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013  , and   2012  , respectively.  All other costs incurred on behalf of Charter s operating subsidiaries are considered a part of the management fee and are recorded as a component of operating costs and expenses, in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.  The management fee charged to the Company s operating subsidiaries approximated the expenses incurred by Charter Holdco and Charter on behalf of the Company s operating subsidiaries in   2014  ,   2013  , and   2012  .   
    
  Liberty Broadband 
    
  On May 1, 2013, Liberty Media completed its purchase from investment funds managed by, or affiliated with, Apollo Global Management, LLC ("Apollo"), Oaktree Capital Management, L.P. ("Oaktree") and Crestview Partners ("Crestview") of approximately   26.9 million   shares and warrants to purchase approximately   1.1 million   shares in Charter for approximately   $2.6 billion   (the "Liberty Transaction"), which represented, at the time, a price per share of   $95.50   and an approximate   27%   beneficial ownership in Charter. 
    
  In connection with the Liberty Transaction, Charter entered into a stockholders agreement with Liberty Media (as amended, the  Stockholders Agreement ).  Pursuant to the Stockholders Agreement, at the closing of the Liberty Transaction on May 1, 2013, Charter s board of directors appointed four designees of Liberty Media to the Charter board of directors:  John C. Malone, Chairman of the Board of Liberty Media, Gregory B. Maffei, President and Chief Executive Officer of Liberty Media, Balan Nair, Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer of Liberty Global, Plc. and Michael P. Huseby, then the Chief Financial Officer, and currently the Chief Executive Officer, of Barnes   Noble, Inc.  In connection with the distribution of all of the capital stock of Liberty Broadband Corporation ( Liberty Broadband ) to stockholders of Liberty Media in a spin off transaction that was completed in November 2014 and also in connection with the consummation of the previously announced reorganization of Charter in connection with the Transactions (the  Reorganization ), on September 29, 2014 Liberty Media, Liberty Broadband and Charter entered into an amendment to the Stockholders Agreement.  Pursuant to that amendment, Liberty Media assigned all of its rights and obligations under the Stockholders Agreement to Liberty Broadband, Liberty Broadband assumed such rights and agreed to perform all such obligations and Charter consented to such assignment and assumption.  As a result, Liberty Broadband was substituted for Liberty Media for all purposes under the Stockholders Agreement.  Liberty Broadband also acknowledged and agreed that the four designees of Liberty Media serving on Charter s board of directors would continue in such capacity as designees of Liberty Broadband.  The amendment also provides that, effective upon the consummation of the Reorganization, Charter will assign all of its rights, liabilities and obligations under the stockholders agreement to the reorganized Charter and the reorganized Charter will assume all of Charter s liabilities and obligations under the Stockholders agreement. 
    
  Subject to Liberty Broadband s continued ownership of   20%   or more of the outstanding shares of Class A common stock of Charter, the Stockholders Agreement provides that Liberty Broadband will be entitled to designate up to four persons as nominees for election to Charter s board of directors at least until January 2016 and that one such designee director (as specified by Liberty Broadband) will serve on each of the Audit Committee, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, and the Compensation and Benefits Committee of Charter s board of directors. Consistent with these provisions, Mr. Malone serves on the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Mr. Maffei serves on the Finance Committee and the Compensation and Benefits Committee and Mr. Huseby serves on the Audit Committee.  Liberty Broadband has agreed that, so long as its designees are included in the group recommended by the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, it will vote its shares of Class A common stock in accordance with the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the board of directors with respect to the election or removal of directors.  Charter can elect, by notice to Liberty Broadband in early January 2016, to terminate the obligation to nominate Liberty Broadband s designees to the board and, in such event, the standstill provisions noted below will also terminate.  Beginning in 2017, Liberty Broadband and Charter will each have an annual right to terminate the board nomination and standstill obligations by delivering notice to the other party of such termination in early January of such year.  Subject to certain limited exceptions, Liberty Broadband agreed that it will not, directly or indirectly; acquire voting securities of Charter in excess of   35%   prior to the fifth business day of January 2016 and thereafter in excess of   39.99%   of the outstanding voting securities of Charter.  Liberty Broadband is also subject to certain customary standstill provisions that prohibit it from, among other things, engaging in any solicitation of proxies or consents relating to the election of directors, proposing a matter for submission to a vote of shareholders of Charter or calling a meeting of shareholders of Charter or taking any action or making any public statement not approved by the board of directors to seek to control or influence the management, the board of directors  
      
  F- 32 

    CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

   or the policies of Charter.  The standstill limitations described above will cease to apply to Liberty Broadband beginning in January 2016 if Charter elects to terminate its obligation to nominate Liberty Broadband s designees for election at the 2016 annual meeting of stockholders, as described above.  In addition, the standstill limitations will cease to apply once Liberty Broadband owns less than   5%   of the outstanding Class A common stock and upon termination by either party in 2017 and thereafter as described above. 
    
  The Company is aware that Dr. Malone may be deemed to have a   36.0%   voting interest in Liberty Interactive Corp. ( Liberty Interactive ) and is Chairman of the board of directors, an executive officer position, of Liberty Interactive.  Liberty Interactive owns   37.6%   of the common stock of HSN, Inc. ( HSN ) and has the right to elect   20%   of the board members of HSN.  Liberty Interactive wholly owns QVC, Inc ( QVC ).  The Company has programming relationships with HSN and QVC which pre-date the Liberty Media Transaction.  For the year ended   December 31, 2014   and nine months ended December 31, 2013, the Company recorded payments in aggregate of approximately   $14 million   and   $10 million  , respectively, from HSN and QVC as part of channel carriage fees and revenue sharing arrangements for home shopping sales made to customers in Charter's footprint.   
    
  Dr. Malone also serves on the board of directors of Discovery Communications, Inc., ( Discovery ) and the Company is aware that Dr. Malone owns   4.5%   in the aggregate of the common stock of Discovery and has a   28.9%   voting interest in Discovery for the election of directors.  In addition, Dr. Malone owns   10.1%   in the aggregate of the common stock of Starz and has   45.5%   of the voting power.  Mr. Maffei is a non-executive Chairman of the board of Starz.  The Company purchases programming from both Discovery and Starz pursuant to agreements entered into prior to the Liberty Media Transaction and Dr. Malone and Mr. Maffei joining Charter's board of directors.  Based on publicly available information, the Company does not believe that either Discovery or Starz would currently be considered related parties.  The amounts paid in aggregate to Discovery and Starz represent less than   3%   of total operating costs and expenses for the year ended   December 31, 2014   and nine months ended December 31, 2013. 
    
    18.    Commitments and Contingencies 
    
  Commitments 
    
  The following table summarizes the Company s payment obligations as of   December 31, 2014   for its contractual obligations. 

(1)  The Company leases certain facilities and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases.  Leases and rental costs charged to expense for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012   were   $43 million  ,   $34 million  ,   $28 million  , respectively.   
    
  (2)  The Company pays programming fees under multi-year contracts ranging from   three   to   ten   years, typically based on a flat fee per customer, which may be fixed for the term, or may in some cases escalate over the term.  Programming costs included in the accompanying statement of operations were   $2.5 billion  ,   $2.1 billion   and   $2.0 billion   for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013  , and   2012   respectively.  Certain of the Company s programming agreements are based on a flat fee per month or have guaranteed minimum payments.  The table sets forth the aggregate guaranteed minimum commitments under the Company s programming contracts. 
    
  (3)   Other  represents other guaranteed minimum commitments, which consist primarily of commitments to the Company's customer premise equipment vendors. 

F- 33 

    CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

   The following items are not included in the contractual obligation table due to various factors discussed below.  However, the Company incurs these costs as part of its operations: 

The Company rents utility poles used in its operations.  Generally, pole rentals are cancelable on short notice, but the Company anticipates that such rentals will recur.  Rent expense incurred for pole rental attachments for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013  , and   2012   was   $49 million  ,   $49 million  , and   $47 million  , respectively.   

The Company pays franchise fees under multi-year franchise agreements based on a percentage of revenues generated from video service per year.  The Company also pays other franchise related costs, such as public education grants, under multi-year agreements.  Franchise fees and other franchise-related costs included in the accompanying statement of operations were   $208 million  ,   $190 million  , and   $176 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013  , and   2012   respectively. 

The Company also has   $85 million   in letters of credit, primarily to its various worker s compensation, property and casualty, and general liability carriers, as collateral for reimbursement of claims.   
       
  Litigation  
    
  The Montana Department of Revenue ("Montana DOR") generally assesses property taxes on cable companies at   3%   and on telephone companies at   6%  .  Historically, Bresnan's cable and telephone operations have been taxed separately by the Montana DOR.  In 2010, the Montana DOR assessed Bresnan as a single telephone business and retroactively assessed it as such for 2007 through 2009.  Bresnan filed a declaratory judgment action against the Montana DOR in Montana State Court challenging its property tax classifications for 2007 through 2010.  The Montana State Court issued decisions in favor of Bresnan.  The Montana DOR filed a notice of appeal to the Montana Supreme Court on September 20, 2012.  On December 2, 2013, the Montana Supreme Court reversed the trial court s decision.  On June 19, 2014, the parties settled this dispute.  For tax years 2007 through 2009, Charter reduced Bresnan acquisition liabilities by approximately   $8 million   with the offset to goodwill, and operating expenses were reduced by approximately   $3 million   for post-acquisition tax years. 
    
  The Company is a defendant or co-defendant in several lawsuits involving alleged infringement of various patents relating to various aspects of its businesses.  Other industry participants are also defendants in certain of these cases.  In the event that a court ultimately determines that the Company infringes on any intellectual property rights, the Company may be subject to substantial damages and/or an injunction that could require the Company or its vendors to modify certain products and services the Company offers to its subscribers, as well as negotiate royalty or license agreements with respect to the patents at issue.  While the Company believes the lawsuits are without merit and intends to defend the actions vigorously, no assurance can be given that any adverse outcome would not be material to the Company's consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.  The Company cannot predict the outcome of any such claims nor can it reasonably estimate a range of possible loss. 
    
  The Company is party to lawsuits and claims that arise in the ordinary course of conducting its business, including lawsuits claiming violation of wage and hour laws.  The ultimate outcome of these other legal matters pending against the Company cannot be predicted, and although such lawsuits and claims are not expected individually to have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity, such lawsuits could have, in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.  Whether or not the Company ultimately prevails in any particular lawsuit or claim, litigation can be time consuming and costly and injure the Company's reputation. 
    
  Regulation in the Cable Industry    
    
  The operation of a cable system is extensively regulated by the Federal Communications Commission ( FCC ), some state governments and most local governments.  The FCC has the authority to enforce its regulations through the imposition of substantial fines, the issuance of cease and desist orders and/or the imposition of other administrative sanctions, such as the revocation of FCC licenses needed to operate certain transmission facilities used in connection with cable operations.  The Telecommunications Act of 1996 altered the regulatory structure governing the nation s communications providers.  It removed barriers to competition in both the cable television market and the telephone market.  Among other things, it reduced the scope of cable rate regulation and encouraged additional competition in the video programming industry by allowing telephone companies to provide video programming in their own telephone service areas.  Future legislative and regulatory changes could adversely affect the Company s operations. 
      
  F- 34 

    CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

19.    Employee Benefit Plan 
    
  The Company s employees may participate in the Charter Communications, Inc. 401(k) Plan.  Employees that qualify for participation can contribute up to   50%   of their salary, on a pre-tax basis, subject to a maximum contribution limit as determined by the Internal Revenue Service.  Each payroll period, the Company will contribute to the 401(k) Plan the total amount of the salary contribution the employee elects to defer between   1%   and   50%  .  The Company s matching contribution is discretionary and is equal to   50%   of the amount of the salary reduction the participant elects to defer (up to   6%   of the participant s eligible compensation), excluding any catch-up contributions and is paid by the Company on a per pay period basis.  The Company made contributions to the 401(k) plan totaling   $19 million  ,   $16 million   and   $8 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,    2013   and   2012  , respectively. 
    
    20.    Recently Issued Accounting Standards 
    
  In April 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2014-08, Presentation of Financial Statements and Property, Plant, and Equipment: Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of components of an Entity ("ASU 2014-08").  ASU 2014-08  changes the criteria for reporting a discontinued operation. Under the new guidance, a disposed component of an organization that represents a strategic shift that has (or will have) a major effect on its operations and financial results is a discontinued operation.  For disposals of individually significant components that do not qualify for discontinued operations presentation, an entity must disclose pre-tax profit or loss of the disposed component.  ASU 2014-08 requires prospective application to all disposals that are classified as held for sale and that occur within annual and interim periods beginning on or after December 15, 2014, with earlier application permitted for disposals that have not been reported in previously issued financial statements.  The Company adopted ASU 2014-08 on January 1, 2015.  The adoption of ASU 2014-8 did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. 
    
  In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers ("ASU 2014-09"), which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. The ASU will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP when it becomes effective.  The effective date of ASU 2014-09 is fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those years, with earlier adoption prohibited.  Companies can transition to the standard either retrospectively or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption.  The Company has not yet selected a transition method nor has it determined the effect of ASU 2014-09 to its consolidated financial statements. 
    
    21.    Unaudited Quarterly Financial Data  
    
  The following table presents quarterly data for the periods presented on the consolidated statement of operations:  

F- 35 

    CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

22.         Consolidating Schedules  
    
  The CCOH Safari notes are obligations of CCOH Safari.   However, substantially concurrently with the release of the proceeds to fund a portion of the purchase of certain assets pursuant to the Transactions, the CCOH Safari notes will become obligations of CCO Holdings and CCO Holdings Capital Corp. and CCOH Safari will merge into CCO Holdings.  The CCO Holdings notes are obligations of CCO Holdings.  See Notes 3 and 8.  However, the CCO Holdings notes and CCOH Safari notes are also jointly, severally, fully and unconditionally guaranteed on an unsecured senior basis by Charter.  The Charter Operating and Restricted Subsidiaries column is presented as a requirement pursuant to the terms of the Charter Operating credit agreement.  The Unrestricted Subsidiary - CCO Safari column is a Non-Recourse Subsidiary under the Charter Operating credit agreement.  In September 2014, Charter Operating entered into a term loan G facility and assigned all of its obligations with respect to the term loan G and transferred all of the proceeds from the term loan G to CCO Safari. See Note 8. 
    
  The accompanying condensed consolidating financial information has been prepared and presented pursuant to SEC Regulation S-X Rule 3-10,   Financial Statements of Guarantors and Affiliates Whose Securities Collateralize an Issue Registered or Being Registered.   This information is not intended to present the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the individual companies or groups of companies in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.   
    
  Condensed consolidating financial statements as of   December 31, 2014   and   2013   and for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012   follow. 
      
  F- 36 

    CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

F- 37 

    CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

F- 38 

    CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

F- 39 

    CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

F- 40 

    CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

F- 41 

    CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

F- 42 

    CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

F- 43 

    CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

F- 44 

    CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31, 2014, 2013 AND 2012 
  (dollars in millions, except share or per share data or where indicated) 

F- 45 

<EX-10.38>
 2
 chtr12312014exh1038.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.38

CHTR 12.31.2014 EXH 10.38 

Exhibit 10.38 
    
  EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 
    THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT   (the  Agreement ), dated and effective on December 10, 2013 (the  Effective Date ) is made by and between CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC., a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), and DONALD DETAMPEL (the  Executive ). 
  RECITALS: 
    WHEREAS  , it is the desire of the Company to assure itself of the services of Executive by engaging Executive as its Executive Vice President and President, Commercial Services and the Executive desires to serve the Company on the terms herein provided; 
    WHEREAS  , Executive s agreement to the terms and conditions of Sections 14, 15 and 16 are a material and essential condition of Executive s employment with the Company hereafter under the terms of this Agreement; 
    NOW, THEREFORE  , in consideration of the foregoing and of the respective covenants and agreements set forth below, the parties hereto agree as follows: 
  1.  Certain Definitions  . 
    
  (a)   Annual Base Salary  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5. 
    
  (b)   Board  shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company. 
    
  (c)   Bonus  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6. 
    
  (d)  The Company shall have  Cause  to terminate Executive s employment hereunder upon: 
    
  (i)  Executive s breach of a material obligation (which, if curable, is not cured within ten business (10) days after the Company provides written notice of such breach) or representation under this Agreement or breach of any fiduciary duty to the Company which, if curable, is not cured within ten business (10) days after the Company provides written notice of such breach; or any act of fraud or knowing material misrepresentation or concealment upon, to or from the Company or the Board; 
    
  (ii)  Executive s failure to adhere in any material respect to (i) the Company s Code of Conduct in effect from time to time and applicable to officers and/or employees generally, or (ii) any written Company policy, if such policy is material to the effective performance by Executive of the Executive s duties under this Agreement, and if Executive has been given a reasonable opportunity to cure this failure to comply within a period of time which is reasonable under the circumstances but not more than the thirty (30) day period after written notice of such failure is provided to Executive; provided that if Executive cures this failure to comply with such a policy and then fails again to comply with the same policy, no further opportunity to cure that failure shall be required; 
    
  (iii)  Executive s misappropriation (or attempted misappropriation) of a material amount of the Company s funds or property; 
    
  (iv)  Executive s conviction of, the entering of a guilty plea or plea of nolo contendere or no contest (or the equivalent), or entering into any pretrial diversion program  

or agreement or suspended imposition of sentence, with respect to either a felony or a crime that adversely affects or could reasonably be expected to adversely affect the Company or its business reputation; or the institution of criminal charges against Executive, which are not dismissed within sixty (60) days after institution, for fraud, embezzlement, any felony offense involving dishonesty or constituting a breach of trust or moral turpitude; 
    
  (v)  Executive s admission of liability of, or finding of liability, for a knowing and deliberate violation of any  Securities Laws.  As used herein, the term  Securities Laws  means any federal or state law, rule or regulation governing generally the issuance or exchange of securities, including without limitation the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; 
    
  (vi)  conduct by Executive in connection with Executive s employment that constitutes gross neglect of any material duty or responsibility, willful misconduct, or recklessness which, if curable, is not cured within ten business (10) days after the Company provides written notice of such breach; 
    
  (vii)  Executive s illegal possession or use of any controlled substance, or excessive use of alcohol at a work function, in connection with Executive s duties, or on Company premises;  excessive  meaning either repeated unprofessional use or any single event of consumption giving rise to significant intoxication or unprofessional behavior; 
    
  (viii)  Executive s willful or grossly negligent commission of any other act or failure to act in connection with the Executive s duties as an executive of the Company which causes or reasonably may be expected (as of the time of such occurrence) to cause substantial economic injury to or substantial injury to the business reputation of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company, including, without limitation, any material violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as described herein below. 
  If Executive commits or is charged with committing any offense of the character or type specified in Section 1(e)(iv), (v) or (viii) above, then the Company at its option may suspend the Executive with or without pay and such suspension shall not constitute  Good Reason  hereunder or for purposes of any other arrangement with the Company. If the Executive subsequently is convicted of, pleads guilty or nolo contendere (or equivalent plea) to, or enters into any type of suspended imposition of sentence or pretrial diversion program with respect to, any such offense (or any matter that gave rise to the suspension), the Executive shall immediately repay any compensation paid in cash hereunder from the date of the suspension. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any stock option or equity incentive plan or award agreement, all vesting and all lapsing of restrictions on restricted shares shall be tolled during the period of suspension and all unvested options and restricted shares for which the restrictions have not lapsed shall terminate and not be exercisable by or issued to Executive if during or after such suspension the Executive is convicted of, pleads guilty or nolo contendere (or equivalent plea) to, or enters into any type of suspended imposition of sentence or pretrial diversion program with respect to, any offense specified in Section 1(e)(iv), (v) or (viii) above or any matter that gave rise to the suspension. 
  (e)    Change of Control  shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events: 
    
  (i)  an acquisition of any voting securities of the Company by any  Person  or  Group  (as those terms are used for purposes of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Exchange Act of 1934, amended (the  Exchange Act )), immediately after which such Person has  Beneficial Ownership  (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the  
    2 

Exchange Act) of thirty-five percent (35%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding voting securities; provided, however, that voting securities which are acquired in a  Non-Control Transaction  (as hereinafter defined) assuming that the acquisition of voting securities for this purpose qualifies as Merger (as hereinafter defined) shall not constitute a Change of Control; 
    
  (ii)  the individuals who, as of the Effective Date, are members of the Board (the  Incumbent Board ), cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the Board; provided, however, that if the election, or nomination for election by the Company s common stockholders, of any new director (excluding any director whose nomination or election to the Board is the result of any actual or threatened proxy contest or settlement thereof) was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Incumbent Board, such new director shall, for purposes of this Agreement, be considered as a member of the Incumbent Board; 
    
  (iii)  the consummation of a merger, consolidation or reorganization with or into the Company or in which securities of the Company are issued (a  Merger ), unless such Merger is a Non-Control Transaction. A  Non-Control Transaction  shall mean a Merger where: (1) the stockholders of the Company, immediately before such Merger own directly or indirectly immediately following such Merger more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the entity resulting from such Merger or its controlling parent entity (the  Surviving Entity ), (2) the individuals who were members of the Incumbent Board immediately prior to the execution of the agreement providing for such Merger constitute at least a majority of the members of the board of directors (or similar governing body) of the Surviving Entity, and (3) no Person other (X) than the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates or any of their respective employee benefit plans (or any trust forming a part thereof) that, immediately prior to such Merger was maintained by the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company, or (Y) any Person who, immediately prior to such Merger had Beneficial Ownership of thirty-five percent (35%) or more of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company, has Beneficial Ownership of thirty-five percent (35%) or more of the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities or common stock of the Surviving Entity; 
    
  (iv)  complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company (other than where assets of the Company are transferred to or remain with subsidiaries of the Company); or 
    
  (v)  the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its direct and indirect subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, directly or indirectly, to any Person (other than a transfer to a subsidiary or affiliate of the Company unless, such sale or disposition constitutes a Non-Control Transaction with the disposition of assets being regarded as a Merger for this purpose or the distribution to the Company s stockholders of the stock of a subsidiary or affiliate of the Company or any other assets). 
    
  (f)    Code  shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. 
    
  (g)   Committee  shall mean either the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board, or a Subcommittee of such Committee duly appointed by the Board or the Committee or any successor to the functions thereof. 
    
  (h)   Company  shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto. 
    
  (i)   Company Stock  shall mean the Class A common stock, par value $.001 per share of the Company. 
    
    3 

(j)   Date of Termination  shall mean (i) if Executive s employment is terminated by Executive s death, the date of Executive s death and (ii) if Executive s employment is terminated pursuant to Section 12(a)(ii)-(vi), the date of termination of employment, as defined in Section 409(A) regulations under the Code. 
    
  (k)  For purposes of this Agreement, Executive will be deemed to have a  Disability  if, due to illness, injury or a physical or medically recognized mental condition, (a) Executive is unable to perform Executive s duties under this Agreement with reasonable accommodation for 120 consecutive days, or 180 days during any twelve month period, as determined in accordance with this Section, or (b) Executive is considered disabled for purposes of receiving / qualifying for long term disability benefits under any group long term disability insurance plan or policy offered by Company in which Executive participates. The Disability of Executive will be determined by a medical doctor selected by written agreement of Company and Executive upon the request of either party by notice to the other, or (in the case of and with respect to any applicable long term disability insurance policy or plan) will be determined according to the terms of the applicable long term disability insurance policy / plan. If Company and Executive cannot agree on the selection of a medical doctor, each of them will select a medical doctor and the two medical doctors will select a third medical doctor who will determine whether Executive has a Disability. The determination of the medical doctor selected under this Section will be binding on both parties. Executive must submit to a reasonable number of examinations by the medical doctor making the determination of Disability under this Section, and to other specialists designated by such medical doctor, and Executive hereby authorizes the disclosure and release to Company of such determination and all supporting medical records. If Executive is not legally competent, Executive s legal guardian or duly authorized attorney-in-fact will act in Executive s stead under this Section for the purposes of submitting Executive to the examinations, and providing the authorization of disclosure, required under this Section. 
    
  (l)   Executive  shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto. 
    
  (m)   Good Reason  shall mean any of the events described herein that occur without Executive s prior written consent: (i) any reduction in Executive s Annual Base Salary, Target Bonus Percentage, or title except as permitted hereunder, (ii) any failure to pay Executive s compensation hereunder when due; (iii) any material breach by the Company of a material term of this Agreement; (iv) relocation of Executive s primary workplace to a location that is more than fifty (50) miles from the office where Executive is then assigned to work as Executive s principal office; (v) a transfer or reassignment to another executive of material responsibilities that have been assigned to Executive (and were not identified by the Company to be assigned only on an interim basis at the time of assignment or thereafter) and generally are part of the responsibilities and functions assigned to an Executive Vice President and President of a business similar to Charter Business that is part of a public corporation unless a Non-renewal Notice has been delivered to Executive at any time within one hundred ninety (190) days prior to the end of the term of this Agreement (in each case  (i)  through  (v)  only if Executive provides written notice of such event within 30 days after the occurrence of such events, the Company fails to retract and/or rectify the claimed Good Reason within 30 days following Company s receipt of timely written notice from Executive and Executive terminates employment within 10 days of the expiration of such cure period); (vi) if within six months after a Change of Control, Executive has not received an offer from the surviving company to continue in Executive s position immediately prior to such Change of Control under at least the same terms and conditions (except that the value of equity-based compensation after such Change of Control need only be commensurate with the value of equity-based  
    4 

compensation given to executives with equivalent positions in the surviving company, if any) as set herein; or (vii) the failure of a successor to the business of the Company to assume the Company s obligations under this Agreement in the event of a Change of Control during its term. 
    
  (n)   Notice of Termination  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 15(b). 
    
  (o)   Non-renewal Notice  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2. 
    
  (p)    Person  shall have the meaning set forth in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 
    
  (q)     Term  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2. 
    
  (r)   Voluntary  and  Voluntarily  in connection with Executive s termination of employment shall mean a termination of employment resulting from the initiative of the Executive, excluding a termination of employment attributable to Executive s death or Disability. A resignation by Executive that is in response to a communicated intent by the Company to discharge Executive other than for Cause is not considered to be  Voluntary  and shall be considered to be a termination by the Company for the purposes of this Agreement. 
    
  2.  Employment Term  .    The Company hereby employs the Executive, and the Executive hereby accepts employment, under the terms and conditions hereof, for the period (the  Term ) beginning on the Effective Date hereof and terminating upon the earlier of (i) December 31, 2015 (the  Initial Term ) and (ii) the Date of Termination.  The Company may, in its sole disretion, extend the term of this Agreement for additional one-year periods.  If the Company fails to provide Executive with at least one hundred eighty (180) days notice prior to the end of the Initial Term or any extension thereof of the Company s intent to not renew this Agreement (the  Non-renewal Notice ), the Initial Term or any previous extension thereof shall be extended one day for each day the Company does not provide the Non-renewal Notice. 
    
  3.  Position and Duties  .    Executive shall serve as Executive Vice President and President, Commercial Services, with such responsibilities, duties and authority as are customary for such role, including, but not limited to, overall management responsibility for the Company s services known as Charter Business. 
    
  4.  Place of Performance  .    In connection with Executive s employment during the Term, Executive s initial primary workplace shall be the Company s offices in or near Denver, Colorado except for necessary travel on the Company s business. 
    
  5.  Annual Base Salary  .    During the Term, Executive shall receive a base salary at a rate not less than $618,000 per annum (the  Annual Base Salary ), less standard deductions, paid in accordance with the Company s general payroll practices for executives, but no less frequently than monthly. The Annual Base Salary shall compensate Executive for any official position or directorship of a subsidiary or affiliate that Executive is asked to hold in the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates as a part of Executive s employment responsibilities. No less frequently than annually during the Term, the Committee, on advice of the Company s Chief Executive Officer, shall review the rate of Annual Base Salary payable to Executive, and may, in its discretion, increase the rate of Annual Base Salary payable hereunder; provided, however, that any increased rate shall thereafter be the rate of  Annual Base Salary  hereunder. 
    
    5 

6.  Bonus.    Except as otherwise provided for herein, for each fiscal year or other period consistent with the Company s then-applicable normal employment practices during which Executive is employed hereunder on the last day (the  Bonus Year ), Executive shall be eligible to receive a bonus in an amount equal to 75% of Executive s Annual Base Salary (the  Target Bonus ) with the actual bonus payout depending on the achievement of target levels of performance for that year (the  Bonus.  Payment of the Bonus shall be pursuant to, and as set forth in, the terms of the Executive Bonus Plan as such Plan may be amended from time to time, with such Bonus and other bonuses, if any, being paid on or before March 15 of the year next following the Bonus Year. 
    
  7.  Time and Efforts.    During the Term, Executive shall devote substantially all of his business time and efforts to the business and affairs of the Company.  However, nothing in this Agreement shall preclude Executive from: (i) serving on the boards of a reasonable number of trade associations and charitable organizations, (ii) engaging in charitable activities and community affairs, (iii) accepting and fulfilling a reasonable number of speaking engagements, (iv) managing his personal investments and affairs and (v) serving on the board of two (2) business entities approved by the Chief Executive Officer;   provided   that such activities do not, either individually or in the aggregate, interfere with the proper performance of his duties and responsibilities hereunder; create a conflict of interest; or violate any provision of this Agreement. 
    
  8.  Benefits.    Executive shall be entitled to receive such benefits and to participate in such employee group benefit plans, including life, health and disability insurance policies, and financial planning services, and other perquisites and plans as are generally provided by the Company to its senior executives of comparable level and responsibility in accordance with the plans, practices and programs of the Company, as amended from time to time; provided that, Executive shall not participate in any severance plan of the Company. 
    
  9.  Expenses.    The Company shall reimburse Executive for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred by Executive in connection with the performance of Executive s duties as an employee of the Company in accordance with the Company s generally applicable policies and procedures. Such reimbursement is subject to the submission to the Company by Executive of appropriate documentation and/or vouchers in accordance with the customary procedures of the Company for expense reimbursement, as such procedures may be revised by the Company from time to time hereafter.  In no event will an expense be reimbursed later than the last day of the calendar year following the calendar in year in which such expense is incurred. 
    
  10.  Vacations.    Executive shall be entitled to paid vacation in accordance with the Company s vacation policy as in effect from time to time provided that, in no event shall Executive be entitled to less than three (3) weeks vacation per calendar year. Executive shall also be entitled to paid holidays and personal days in accordance with the Company s practice with respect to same as in effect from time to time. 
    
  11.  Termination. 
    
  (a)  Executive s employment hereunder may be terminated by the Company, on the one hand, or Executive, on the other hand, as applicable, without any breach of this Agreement, under the following circumstances: 
    
  (i)  Death.    Executive s employment hereunder shall automatically terminate upon Executive s death. 
    
    6 

(ii)  Disability.    If Executive has incurred a Disability, the Company may give Executive written notice of its intention to terminate Executive s employment. In such event, Executive s employment with the Company shall terminate effective on the 14th day after delivery of such notice to Executive, provided that within the 14 days after such delivery, Executive shall not have returned to full-time performance of Executive s duties. Executive may provide notice to the Company of Executive s resignation on account of a bona fide Disability at any time. 
    
  (iii)  Cause.    The Company may terminate Executive s employment hereunder for Cause effectively immediately upon delivery of notice to Executive, taking into account any procedural requirements set forth under Section 1(d) above. 
    
  (iv)  Good Reason.    Executive may terminate Executive s employment herein for Good Reason upon (i) satisfaction of any advance notice and other procedural requirements set forth under Section 1(m) above for any termination pursuant to Section 1(m)(i) through (v) or (ii) at least 30 days  advance written notice by the Executive for any termination pursuant to Section 1(m)(vi) through (vii).   
   (v)      Without Cause.    The Company may terminate Executive s employment hereunder without Cause upon written notice to the Executive. 
  (vi)      Resignation Without Good Reason.   Executive may resign Executive s employment without Good Reason upon at least fourteen (14) days  written notice to the Company. 
  (b)  Notice of Termination.   Any termination of Executive s employment by the Company or by Executive under this Section 11 (other than pursuant to Sections 11(a)(i)) shall be communicated by a written notice (the  Notice of Termination ) to the other party hereto, indicating the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon, setting forth in reasonable detail any facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of Executive s employment under the provision so indicated, and specifying a Date of Termination which notice shall be delivered within the applicable time periods set forth in Sections 11(a)(ii)-(vi) above ( the  Notice Period  provided that, the Company may pay to Executive all Annual Base Salary, benefits and other rights due to Executive during such Notice Period instead of employing Executive during such Notice Period. 
    
  (c)  Resignation from Representational Capacities.   Executive hereby acknowledges and agrees that upon Executive s termination of employment with the Company for whatever reason, Executive shall be deemed to have, and shall have in fact, effectively resigned from all executive, director, offices, or other positions with the Company or its affiliates at the time of such termination of employment, and shall return all property owned by the Company and in Executive s possession, including all hardware, files and documents, at that time. 
    
  (d)  Termination in Connection with Change of Control.    If Executive s employment is terminated by the Company without Cause or a Non-renewal Notice has been delivered to Executive either upon or within thirty days before or thirteen (13) months after a Change of Control, or prior to a Change of Control at the request of a prospective purchaser whose proposed purchase would constitute a Change of Control upon its completion, such termination or delivery of a Non-renewal Notice shall be deemed to constitute a termination by the Company without Cause and shall be deemed to have occurred immediately before such Change of Control for purposes of this Agreement and the Plan. 
    
    7 

(a)  Effective upon the termination of Executive s employment, Company will be obligated to pay Executive (or, in the event of Executive s death, the Executive s designated beneficiary as defined below) only such compensation as is provided in this Section 12, except to the extent otherwise provided for in any Company stock incentive, stock option or cash award plan (including, among others, the Plan), approved by the Board. For purposes of this Section 12, Executive s designated beneficiary will be such individual beneficiary or trust, located at such address, as Executive may designate by notice to Company from time to time or, if Executive fails to give notice to Company of such a beneficiary, Executive s estate. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, Company will have no duty, in any circumstances, to attempt to open an estate on behalf of Executive, to determine whether any beneficiary designated by Executive is alive or to ascertain the address of any such beneficiary, to determine the existence of any trust, to determine whether any person purporting to act as Executive s personal representative (or the  
  trustee of a trust established by Executive) is duly authorized to act in that capacity, or to locate or attempt to locate any beneficiary, personal representative, or trustee 
  (b)  Termination by Executive for Good Reason or by Company without Cause.   If prior to expiration of the Term, Executive terminates his or her employment for Good Reason, or if the Company terminates Executive s employment other than for Cause or Executive s death or Disability (collectively, a  Clause (b) Termination ), Executive will be entitled to receive, subject to the conditions of this Agreement, the following: 
    
  (i)  (A) all Annual Base Salary and Bonus duly payable under the applicable plan for performance periods ending prior to the Date of Termination, but unpaid as of the Date of Termination, plus (B) in consideration for Executive s obligations set forth in Sections 11, 12 and 13 hereof, an amount equal to two (2) times the Executive s then-current rate of Annual Base Salary and Target Bonus, which total sum shall be payable immediately following the Date of Termination in fifty-two (52) equal bi-weekly installments in accordance with the Company s normal payroll practices commencing with the next payroll date immediately following the 30 day anniversary of the Date of Termination; provided that, if a Change of Control occurs (or is deemed pursuant to Section 12(d) hereof to have occurred after such termination) during such twenty-four (24) month period (and such Change of Control qualifies either as a  change in the ownership or effective control  of the Company or a  change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets  of the Company as such terms are defined under Section 409A of the Code), any amounts remaining payable to Executive hereunder shall be paid in a single lump sum immediately upon such Change of Control; 
    
  (ii)  all reasonable expenses Executive has incurred in the pursuit of Executive s duties under this Agreement through the Date of Termination which are payable under and in accordance with this Agreement, which amount will be paid within thirty (30) days after the submission by Executive of properly completed reimbursement requests on the Company s standard forms, provided that, in no event will an expense be reimbursed later than the last day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which such expense is incurred; 
    
  (iii)  a lump sum payment (net after deduction of taxes and other required withholdings) equal to twenty-four (24) times the monthly cost, at the time Executive s employment terminated, for Executive to receive under COBRA the paid coverage for health, dental and vision benefits then being provided for Executive at the Company s cost at the time Executive s employment terminated. This amount will be paid on the next  
    8 

payroll date immediately following the 30 day anniversary of the Date of Termination and will not take into account future increases in costs during the applicable time period;  
    
  (iv)  vesting of equity awards as provided in the applicable award agreement and plan; and 
    
  (v)  pay the cost of up to twelve (12) months, as required, of executive-level outplacement services (which provides as part of the outplacement services the use of an office and secretarial support as near as reasonably practicable to Executive s residence), provided that, in no event will an expense be reimbursed later than the last day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which such expense is incurred;. 
    
  (c)  The Executive shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payments provided in Section 12, by seeking other employment or otherwise, nor shall the amount of any payment provided for in this Section 12 be reduced by any compensation earned by Executive as a result of employment by another company or business, or by profits earned by Employee from any other source at any time before or after the date of Termination, so long as Executive is not in breach of the Agreement. 
    
  (d)  Termination by Executive without Good Reason or by Company for Cause.    If prior to the expiration of the Term or thereafter, Executive Voluntarily terminates Executive s employment prior to expiration of the Term without Good Reason or if Company terminates this Agreement for Cause, Executive will be entitled to receive Executive s then-existing Annual Base Salary only through the date such termination is effective in accordance with regular payroll practices and will be reimbursed for all reasonable expenses Executive has incurred in the pursuit of Executive s duties under this Agreement through the date of termination which are payable under and in accordance with this Agreement; any unvested options and shares of restricted stock shall terminate as of the date of termination unless otherwise provided for in any applicable plan or award agreement, and Executive shall be entitled to no other compensation, bonus, payments or benefits except as expressly provided in this paragraph. 
    
  (e)  Termination upon Disability or Death.    If Executive s employment shall terminate by reason of Executive s Disability (pursuant to Section 11(a)(ii)) or death (pursuant to Section 11(a)(i)), the Company shall pay to Executive, in a lump sum cash payment following the Date of Termination, all unpaid Annual Base Salary through the Date of Termination in accordance with regular payroll practices and the Bonus previously earned for a performance period ending prior to the Date of Termination, but unpaid as of the Date of Termination, and the pro rata portion of the Bonus for such year (when and as such Bonuses are paid to other senior executives of the Company) for the Performance Period in which the termination occurred. In the case of Disability, if there is a period of time during which Executive is not being paid Annual Base Salary and not receiving long-term disability insurance payments, the Company shall make interim payments equal to such unpaid disability insurance payments to Executive until commencement of disability insurance payments; provided that, to the extent required to avoid the tax consequences of Section 409A of the Code, as determined by independent tax counsel, the first payment shall cover all payments scheduled to be made to Executive during the first six (6) months after the date Executive s employment terminates, and the first such payment shall be delayed until the day that is six (6) months after the date Executive s employment terminates. 
    
  (f)  Benefits.    Except as otherwise required by law, Executive s accrual of, and participation in plans providing for, the Benefits will cease at the effective Date of the Termination of employment. 
    
    9 

(g)  Conditions To Payments.    To be eligible to receive (and continue to receive) and retain the payments and benefits described in Sections 12(b)(i) and 12(e), Executive must comply with the provisions of Sections 14, 15 and 16. In addition, to be eligible to receive (and continue to receive) and retain the payments and benefits described in Sections 12(b) and 12(e) Executive (or Executive s executor and personal representatives in case of death) must execute and deliver to Company, and comply with, an agreement, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Company, effectively releasing and giving up all claims Executive may have against Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates (and each of their respective controlling shareholders, employees, directors, officers, plans, fiduciaries, insurers and agents) arising out of or based upon any facts or conduct occurring prior to that date. The agreement will be prepared by Company, will be based upon the standard form (if any) then being utilized by Company for executive separations when severance is being paid, and will be provided to Executive at the time Executive s employment is terminated or as soon as administratively practicable thereafter (not to exceed five (5) business days). The agreement will require Executive to consult with Company representatives, and voluntarily appear as a witness for trial or deposition (and to prepare for any such testimony) in connection with, any claim which may be asserted by or against Company, any investigation or administrative proceeding, any matter relating to a franchise, or any business matter concerning Company or any of its transactions or operations. It is understood that the final document may not contain provisions specific to the release of a federal age discrimination claim if Executive is not at least forty (40) years of age, and may be changed as Company s chief legal counsel considers necessary and appropriate to enforce the same, including provisions to comply with changes in applicable laws and recent court decisions. Payments under and/or benefits provided by Section 12 will not continue to be made unless and until Executive executes and delivers that agreement to Company within twenty-one (21) days after delivery of the document (or such lesser time as Company s chief legal counsel may specify in the document) and all conditions to the effectiveness of that agreement and the releases contemplated thereby have been satisfied (including without limitation the expiration of any applicable revocation period without revoking acceptance).  
    
  (h)  Termination Following Expiration.     Executive shall not be entitled to any severance payment under this Agreement or otherwise upon a termination following the expiration of the term of this Agreement except as may result from a termination by the Company without Cause as provided in Section 11(d). 
    
  (i)  Survival.    The expiration or termination of the Term shall not impair the rights or obligations of any party hereto which shall have accrued hereunder prior to such expiration, subject to the terms of any agreement containing a general release provided by Executive. 
    
  (j)  Definitions.    For purposes of this Section 12, the terms  termination of employment  or  terminate  when used in the context of termination of employment shall mean separation from service with the Company and its affiliates as the terms  separation from service  and  affiliate  are defined in Section 409A of the Code or the regulations thereunder.   
    
  (k)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 12, any of the benefits described in this Section 12 that are due to be paid or awarded during the first six-(6) months after the Date of Termination shall, to the extent required to avoid the additional taxes and penalties imposed under Section 409A of the Code (as determined by independent tax counsel), be suspended for six months and paid on the day after the sixth month anniversary of the Date of Termination.  All installment payments shall be considered to be a series of separate payments. 
    
    10 

13. 
    Excess Parachute Payment. 
       
  (a)  Anything in this Agreement or the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, to the extent that any payment, distribution or acceleration of vesting to or for the benefit of Executive by the Company (within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code and the regulations thereunder), whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or otherwise (the  Total Payments ) is or will be subject to the excise tax imposed under Section 4999 of the Code (the  Excise Tax ), then the Total Payments shall be reduced (but not below zero) to the Safe Harbor Amount (as defined below).  For purposes of this Agreement, the term  Safe Harbor Amount  means the largest portion of the Total Payments that would result in no portion of the Total Payments being subject to the Excise Tax. Unless Executive shall have given prior written notice specifying a different order to the Company to effectuate the foregoing, the Company shall reduce or eliminate the Total Payments, by first reducing or eliminating the portion of the Total Payments which are payable in cash and then by reducing or eliminating non-cash payments in such order as to provide Executive the largest amount of payments possible. Any notice given by Executive pursuant to the preceding sentence shall take precedence over the provisions of any other plan, arrangement or agreement governing Executive s rights and entitlements to any benefits or compensation. 
    
  (b)  The determination of whether the Total Payments shall be reduced as provided in Section 13(a) and the amount of such reduction shall be made at the Company s expense by an accounting firm selected by Company from among the ten largest accounting firms in the United States or by qualified independent tax counsel (the  Determining Party  provided that, Executive shall be given advance notice of the Determining Party selected by the Company, and shall have the opportunity to reject the selection, within two business days of being notified of the selection, on the basis of that Determining Party s having a conflict of interest or other reasonable basis, in which case the Company shall select an alternative auditing firm among the ten largest accounting firms in the United States or alternative independent qualified tax counsel, which shall become the Determining Party. Such Determining Party shall provide its determination (the  Determination ), together with detailed supporting calculations and documentation to the Company and Executive within ten (10) days of the termination of Executive s employment or at such other time mutually agreed by the Company and Executive. If the Determining Party determines that no Excise Tax is payable by Executive with respect to the Total Payments, it shall furnish Executive with an opinion reasonably acceptable to Executive that no Excise Tax will be imposed with respect to any such payments and, absent manifest error, such Determination shall be binding, final and conclusive upon the Company and Executive. If the Determining Party determines that an Excise Tax would be payable, the Company shall have the right to accept the Determination as to the extent of the reduction, if any, pursuant to Section 13(a), or to have such Determination reviewed by another accounting firm selected by the Company, at the Company s expense. If the two accounting firms do not agree, a third accounting firm shall be jointly chosen by the Executive Party and the Company, in which case the determination of such third accounting firm shall be binding, final and conclusive upon the Company and Executive. 
    
  (c)  If, notwithstanding any reduction described in this Section 13, the IRS determines that Executive is liable for the Excise Tax as a result of the receipt of any of the Total Payments or otherwise, then Executive shall be obligated to pay back to the Company, within thirty (30) days after a final IRS determination or in the event that Executive challenges the final IRS determination, a final judicial determination, a portion of the Total Payments equal to the  Repayment Amount.  The Repayment Amount with respect to the payment of benefits shall be the smallest such amount, if any, as shall be required to be paid to the Company so that Executive s net after-tax proceeds with respect to the Total Payments (after taking into account the payment of the Excise Tax and all other applicable taxes imposed on the Payment) shall be maximized. The Repayment Amount shall be zero if a Repayment Amount of more than zero would not result in  
    11 

Executive s net after-tax proceeds with respect to the Total Payments being maximized. If the Excise Tax is not eliminated pursuant to this paragraph, the Executive shall pay the Excise Tax. 
    
  (d)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 13, if (i) there is a reduction in the Total Payments as described in this Section 13, (ii) the IRS later determines that Executive is liable for the Excise Tax, the payment of which would result in the maximization of Executive s net after-tax proceeds (calculated as if Executive s benefits had not previously been reduced), and (iii) Executive pays the Excise Tax, then the Company shall pay to Executive those payments or benefits which were reduced pursuant to this Section 13 as soon as administratively possible after Executive pays the Excise Tax (but not later than March 15 following the calendar year of the IRS determination) so that Executive s net after-tax proceeds with respect to the Total Payments are maximized. 
    
           14. 
    Competition/Confidentiality. 
       
  (a)  Acknowledgments by Executive.    Executive acknowledges that (a) during the Term and as a part of Executive s employment, Executive has been and will be afforded access to Confidential Information (as defined below); (b) public disclosure of such Confidential Information could have an adverse effect on the Company and its business; (c) because Executive possesses substantial technical expertise and skill with respect to the Company s business, Company desires to obtain exclusive ownership of each invention by Executive while Executive is employed by the Company, and Company will be at a substantial competitive disadvantage if it fails to acquire exclusive ownership of each such invention by Executive; and (d) the provisions of this Section 14 are reasonable and necessary to prevent the improper use or disclosure of Confidential Information and to provide Company with exclusive ownership of all inventions and works made or created by Executive. 
    
  (b)  Confidential Information.    (i) The Executive acknowledges that during the Term Executive will have access to and may obtain, develop, or learn of Confidential Information (as defined below) under and pursuant to a relationship of trust and confidence. The Executive shall hold such Confidential Information in strictest confidence and never at any time, during or after Executive s employment terminates, directly or indirectly use for Executive s own benefit or otherwise (except in connection with the performance of any duties as an employee hereunder) any Confidential Information, or divulge, reveal, disclose or communicate any Confidential Information to any unauthorized person or entity in any manner whatsoever. 
    
  (ii)  As used in this Agreement, the term  Confidential Information  shall include, but not be limited to, any of the following information relating to Company learned by the Executive during the Term or as a result of Executive s employment with Company: 
    
  (A)  information regarding the Company s business proposals, manner of the Company s operations, and methods of selling or pricing any products or services; 
    
  (B)  the identity of persons or entities actually conducting or considering conducting business with the Company, and any information in any form relating to such persons or entities and their relationship or dealings with the Company or its affiliates; 
    
  (C)  any trade secret or confidential information of or concerning any business operation or business relationship; 
    
  (D)  computer databases, software programs and information relating to the nature of the hardware or software and how said hardware or software is used in combination or alone; 
    
    12 

(E)  information concerning Company personnel, confidential financial information, customer or customer prospect information, information concerning subscribers, subscriber and customer lists and data, methods and formulas for estimating costs and setting prices, engineering design standards, testing procedures, research results (such as marketing surveys, programming trials or product trials), cost data (such as billing, equipment and programming cost projection models), compensation information and models, business or marketing plans or strategies, deal or business terms, budgets, vendor names, programming operations, product names, information on proposed acquisitions or dispositions, actual performance compared to budgeted performance, long-range plans, internal financial information  (including but not limited to financial and operating results for certain offices, divisions, departments, and key market areas that are not disclosed to the public in such form), results of internal analyses, computer programs and programming information, techniques and designs, and trade secrets; 
    
  (F)  information concerning the Company s employees, officers, directors and shareholders; and 
    
  (G)  any other trade secret or information of a confidential or proprietary nature. 
    
  (iii)  Executive shall not make or use any notes or memoranda relating to any Confidential Information except for uses reasonably expected by Executive to be for the benefit of the Company, and will, at Company s request, return each original and every copy of any and all notes, memoranda, correspondence, diagrams or other records, in written or other form, that Executive may at any time have within his possession or control that contain any Confidential Information. 
    
  (iv)  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Confidential Information shall not include information which has come within the public domain through no fault of or action by Executive or which has become rightfully available to Executive on a non-confidential basis from any third party, the disclosure of which to Executive does not violate any contractual or legal obligation such third party has to the Company or its affiliates with respect to such Confidential Information. None of the foregoing obligations and restrictions applies to any part of the Confidential Information that Executive demonstrates was or became generally available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure by Executive or by any other person bound by a confidentiality obligation to the Company in respect of such Confidential Information. 
    
  (v)  Executive will not remove from the Company s premises (except to the extent such removal is for purposes of the performance of Executive s duties at home or while traveling, or except as otherwise specifically authorized by Company) any Company document, record, notebook, plan, model, component, device, or computer software or code, whether embodied in a disk or in any other form (collectively, the  Proprietary Items ). Executive recognizes that, as between Company and Executive, all of the Proprietary Items, whether or not developed by Executive, are the exclusive property of the Company. Upon termination of Executive s employment by either party, or upon the request of Company during the Term, Executive will return to Company all of the Proprietary Items in Executive s possession or subject to Executive s control, including all equipment (e.g., laptop computers, cell phone, portable e-mail devices, etc.), documents, files and data, and Executive shall not retain any copies, abstracts, sketches, or other physical embodiment of any such Proprietary Items. 
    
           15. 
    Proprietary Developments. 
       
  (a)  Any and all inventions, products, discoveries, improvements, processes, methods, computer software programs, models, techniques, or formulae (collectively, hereinafter referred to  
    13 

as  Developments ), made, conceived, developed, or created by Executive (alone or in conjunction with others, during regular work hours or otherwise) during Executive s employment which may be directly or indirectly useful in, or relate to, the business conducted or to be conducted by the Company will be promptly disclosed by Executive to Company and shall be Company s exclusive property. The term  Developments  shall not be deemed to include inventions, products, discoveries, improvements, processes, methods, computer software programs, models, techniques, or formulae which were in the possession of Executive prior to the Term. Executive hereby transfers and assigns to Company all proprietary rights which Executive may have or acquire in any Developments and Executive waives any other special right which the Executive may have or accrue therein. Executive will execute any documents and to take any actions that may be required, in the reasonable determination of Company s counsel, to effect and confirm such assignment, transfer and waiver, to direct the issuance of patents, trademarks, or copyrights to Company with respect to such Developments as are to be Company s exclusive property or to vest in Company title to such Developments; provided, however, that the expense of securing any patent, trademark or copyright shall be borne by Company. The parties agree that Developments shall constitute Confidential Information. 
    
  (b)   Work Made for Hire.  Any work performed by Executive during Executive s employment with Company shall be considered a  Work Made for Hire  as defined in the U.S. Copyright laws, and shall be owned by and for the express benefit of Company. In the event it should be established that such work does not qualify as a Work Made for Hire, Executive agrees to and does hereby assign to Company all of Executive s right, title, and interest in such work product including, but not limited to, all copyrights and other proprietary rights. 
    
           16. 
    Non-Competition and Non-Interference. 
       
  (a)  Acknowledgments by Executive.    Executive acknowledges and agrees that: (a) the services to be performed by Executive under this Agreement are of a special, unique, unusual, extraordinary, and intellectual character; (b) the Company competes with other businesses that are or could be located in any part of the United States; and (c) the provisions of this Section 16 are reasonable and necessary to protect the Company s business and lawful protectable interests, and do not impair Executive s ability to earn a living. 
    
  (b)  Covenants of Executive.    For purposes of this Section 16, the term  Restricted Period  shall mean the period commencing as of the date of this Agreement and terminating on the second anniversary (or, in the case of Section 16(b)(iii), the first anniversary and in the case of a Clause b Termination resulting in payments of one times Base Salary and Target Bonus under Section 12(b)(i)(B)(x) of this Agreement, the first anniversary), of the date Executive s employment terminated provided that the  Restricted Period  also shall encompass any period of time from whichever anniversary date is applicable until and ending on the last date Executive is to be paid any payment under Section 12 hereof. In consideration of the acknowledgments by Executive, and in consideration of the compensation and benefits to be paid or provided to Executive by Company, Executive covenants and agrees that during the Restricted Period, the Executive will not, directly or indirectly, for Executive s own benefit or for the benefit of any other person or entity other than the Company: 
    
  (i)  in the United States or any other country or territory where the Company then conducts its business: engage in, operate, finance, control or be employed by a  Competitive Business  (defined below); serve as an officer or director of a Competitive Business (regardless of where Executive then lives or conducts such activities); perform any work as an employee, consultant (other than as a member of a professional consultancy, law firm, accounting firm or similar professional enterprise that has been retained by the Competitive Business and where Executive has no direct role in such professional consultancy and maintains the confidentiality of  
    14 

all information acquired by Executive during his or her employment with the Company), contractor, or in any other capacity with, a Competitive Business; directly or indirectly invest or own any interest in a Competitive Business (regardless of where Executive then lives or conducts such activities); or directly or indirectly provide any services or advice to a any business, person or entity who or which is engaged in a Competitive Business (other than as a member of a professional consultancy, law firm, accounting firm or similar professional enterprise that has been retained by the Competitive Business and where Executive has no direct role in such professional consultancy and maintains the confidentiality of all information acquired by Executive during his or her employment with the Company). A  Competitive Business  is any business, person or entity who or which, anywhere within that part of the United States, or that part of any other country or territory, where the Company conducts business; owns or operates a cable television system; provides direct television or any satellite-based, telephone system-based, internet-based or wireless system for delivering television, music or other entertainment programming (other than as an ancillary service, such as cellular telephone providers); provides telephony services using any wired connection or fixed (as opposed to mobile) wireless application; provides data or internet access services; or offers, provides, markets or sells any service or product of a type that is offered or marketed by or directly competitive with a service or product offered or marketed by the Company at the time Executive s employment terminates; or who or which in any case is preparing or planning to do so. The provisions of this Section 20 shall not be construed or applied (i) so as to prohibit Executive from owning investments as approved by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, in his sole discretion or not more than five percent (5%) of any class of securities that is publicly traded on any national or regional securities exchange, as long as Executive s investment is passive and Executive does not lend or provide any services or advice to such business or otherwise violate the terms of this Agreement in connection with such investment; or (ii) so as to prohibit Executive from working as an employee, consultant or contractor in the cable television business for a company/business that owns or operates cable television franchises (by way of current example only, Time Warner, Cablevision, Cox or Comcast), provided that the company/business is not providing cable services in any political subdivision/ geographic area where the Company has a franchise or provides cable services (other than nominal overlaps of service areas) and the company/business is otherwise not engaged in a Competitive Business, and provided Executive does not otherwise violate the terms of this Agreement in connection with that work; 
    
  (ii)  contact, solicit or provide any service or product of a type offered by, or competitive with, any product or service provided by the Company to any person or entity that was a customer franchisee, or prospective customer of the Company at any time during Executive s employment (a prospective customer being one to whom the Company had made a business proposal within twelve (12) months prior to the time Executive s employment terminated); or directly solicit or encourage any customer, franchisee or subscriber of the Company to purchase any service or product of a type offered by or competitive with any product or service provided by the Company, or to reduce the amount or level of business purchased by such customer, franchisee or subscriber from the Company; or take away or procure for the benefit of any competitor of the Company, any business of a type provided by or competitive with a product or service offered by the Company; or 
    
  (iii)  solicit or recruit for employment, any person or persons who are employed by Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or who were so employed at any time within a period of six (6) months immediately prior to the date Executive s employment terminated, or otherwise interfere with the relationship between any such person and the Company; nor will the Executive assist anyone else in recruiting any such employee to work for another company or business or discuss with any such person his or her leaving the employ of the Company or engaging in a business activity in competition with the Company. This provision shall not apply to secretarial, clerical, custodial or maintenance employees. 
    15 

If Executive violates any covenant contained in this Section 16, then the term of the covenants in this Section shall be extended by the period of time Executive was in violation of the same. 
  (c)  Provisions Pertaining to the Covenants  . Executive recognizes that the existing business of the Company extends to various locations and areas throughout the United States and may extend hereafter to other countries and territories and agrees that the scope of Section 16 shall extend to any part of the United States, and any other country or territory, where the Company operates or conducts business, or has concrete plans to do so at the time Executive s employment terminates. It is agreed that the Executive s services hereunder are special, unique, unusual and extraordinary giving them peculiar value, the loss of which cannot be reasonably or adequately compensated for by damages, and in the event of the Executive s breach of this Section, Company shall be entitled to equitable relief by way of injunction or otherwise in addition to the cessation of payments and benefits hereunder. If any provision of Sections 14, 15 or 16 of this Agreement is deemed to be unenforceable by a court (whether because of the subject matter of the provision, the duration of a restriction, the geographic or other scope of a restriction or otherwise), that provision shall not be rendered void but the parties instead agree that the court shall amend and alter such provision to such lesser degree, time, scope, extent and/or territory as will grant Company the maximum restriction on Executive s activities permitted by applicable law in such circumstances. Company s failure to exercise its rights to enforce the provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected by the existence or non existence of any other similar agreement for anyone else employed by Company or by Company s failure to exercise any of its rights under any such agreement. 
    
  (d)  Notices  . In order to preserve Company s rights under this Agreement, Company is authorized to advise any potential or future employer, any third party with whom Executive may become employed or enter into any business or contractual relationship with, and any third party whom Executive may contact for any such purpose, of the existence of this Agreement and its terms, and Company shall not be liable for doing so. 
    
  (e)  Injunctive Relief and Additional Remedy  . Executive acknowledges that the injury that would be suffered by Company as a result of a breach of the provisions of this Agreement (including any provision of Sections 14, 15 and 16) would be irreparable and that an award of monetary damages to Company for such a breach would be an inadequate remedy. Consequently, Company will have the right, in addition to any other rights it may have, to obtain injunctive relief to restrain any breach or threatened breach or otherwise to specifically enforce any provision of this Agreement, and Company will not be obligated to post bond or other security in seeking such relief. Without limiting Company s rights under this Section or any other remedies of Company, if Executive breaches any of the provisions of Sections 18, 19 or 20, Company will have the right to cease making any payments otherwise due to Executive under this Agreement. 
    
  (f)  Covenants of Sections 14, 15 and 16 are Essential and Independent Covenants  . The covenants by Executive in Sections 14, 15 and 16 are essential elements of this Agreement, and without Executive s agreement to comply with such covenants, Company would not have entered into this Agreement or employed Executive. Company and Executive have independently consulted their respective counsel and have been advised in all respects concerning the reasonableness and propriety of such covenants, with specific regard to the nature of the business conducted by Company. Executive s covenants in Sections 14, 15 and 16 are independent covenants and the existence of any claim by Executive against Company, under this Agreement or otherwise, will not excuse Executive s breach of any covenant in Section 14, 15 or 16. If Executive s employment hereunder is terminated, this Agreement will continue in full force and effect as is necessary or appropriate to enforce the covenants and agreements of Executive in Sections 14, 15 and 16. The Company s right to enforce the covenants in Sections 14, 15 and 16 shall not be adversely affected or limited by the Company s failure to have an agreement with  
    16 

another employee with provisions at least as restrictive as those contained in Sections 14, 15 or 16, or by the Company s failure or inability to enforce (or agreement not to enforce) in full the provisions of any other or similar agreement containing one or more restrictions of the type specified in Sections 14, 15 and 16 of this Agreement. 
    
           17. 
    Executive s Representations And Further Agreements. 
       
           (a) 
    Executive represents  , warrants and covenants to Company that: 
       
  (i)  Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement by Executive nor the performance of any of Executive s duties hereunder in accordance with the Agreement will violate, conflict with or result in the breach of any order, judgment, employment contract, agreement not to compete or other agreement or arrangement to which Executive is a party or is subject; 
    
  (ii)  On or prior to the date hereof, Executive has furnished to Company true and complete copies of all judgments, orders, written employment contracts, agreements not to compete, and other agreements or arrangements restricting Executive s employment or business pursuits, that have current application to Executive; 
    
  (iii)  Executive is knowledgeable and sophisticated as to business matters, including the subject matter of this Agreement, and that prior to assenting to the terms of this Agreement, or giving the representations and warranties herein, Executive has been given a reasonable time to review it and has consulted with counsel of Executive s choice; and 
    
  (iv)  Executive has not provided, nor been requested by Company to provide, to Company, any confidential or non-public document or information of a former employer that constitutes or contains any protected trade secret, and will not use any protected trade secrets in connection with the Executive s employment.  
    
  (b)  During and subsequent to expiration of the Term, the Executive will cooperate with Company, and furnish any and all complete and truthful information, testimony or affidavits in connection with any matter that arose during the Executive s employment, that in any way relates to the business or operations of the Company or any of its parent or subsidiary corporations or affiliates, or of which the Executive may have any knowledge or involvement; and will consult with and provide information to Company and its representatives concerning such matters. Executive shall fully cooperate with Company in the protection and enforcement of any intellectual property rights that relate to services performed by Executive for Company, whether under the terms of this Agreement or prior to the execution of this Agreement. This shall include without limitation executing, acknowledging, and delivering to Company all documents or papers that may be necessary to enable Company to publish or protect such intellectual property rights. Subsequent to the Term, the parties will make their best efforts to have such cooperation performed at reasonable times and places and in a manner as not to unreasonably interfere with any other employment in which Executive may then be engaged. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed or interpreted as requiring the Executive to provide any testimony, sworn statement or declaration that is not complete and truthful. If Company requires the Executive to travel outside the metropolitan area in the United States where the Executive then resides to provide any testimony or otherwise provide any such assistance, then Company will reimburse the Executive for any reasonable, ordinary and necessary travel and lodging expenses incurred by Executive to do so provided the Executive submits all documentation required under Company s standard travel expense reimbursement policies and as otherwise may be required to satisfy any 
    
    17 

requirements under applicable tax laws for Company to deduct those expenses. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed or interpreted as requiring the Executive to provide any testimony or affidavit that is not complete and truthful. 
  18.  Mutual Non-Disparagement.    Neither the Company nor Executive shall make any oral or written statement about the other party which is intended or reasonably likely to disparage the other party, or otherwise degrade the other party s reputation in the business or legal community or in the telecommunications industry. 
    
  19.  Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.    Executive agrees to comply in all material respects with the applicable provisions of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 ( FCPA ), as amended, which provides generally that: under no circumstances will foreign officials, representatives, political parties or holders of public offices be offered, promised or paid any money, remuneration, things of value, or provided any other benefit, direct or indirect, in connection with obtaining or maintaining contracts or orders hereunder. When any representative, employee, agent, or other individual or organization associated with Executive is required to perform any obligation related to or in connection with this Agreement, the substance of this section shall be imposed upon such person and included in any agreement between Executive and any such person. Failure by Executive to comply with the provisions of the FCPA shall constitute a material breach of this Agreement and shall entitle the Company to terminate Executive s employment for Cause. 
    
  20.  Purchases and Sales of the Company s Securities.    Executive has read and agrees to comply in all respects with the Company s Securities Trading Policy regarding the purchase and sale of the Company s securities by employees, as such Policy may be amended from time to time.  Specifically, and without limitation, Executive agrees that Executive shall not purchase or sell stock in the Company at any time (a) that Executive possesses material non-public information about the Company or any of its businesses; and (b) during any  Trading Blackout Period  as may be determined by the Company as set forth in the Policy from time to time. 

(a)  If Executive is made a party or is threatened to be made a party or is otherwise involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter, a  proceeding ), by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director or an officer of the Company or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to an employee benefit plan (hereinafter, a  Covered Person ), whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company to the fullest extent authorized by the Delaware General Corporation Law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended, against all expense, liability and loss (including attorneys  fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such Covered Person in connection therewith; provided, however, that, except as provided in Section 21(e) hereof with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, the Company shall indemnify any such Covered Person in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such Covered Person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board. 
    
  (b)  The Company shall pay the expenses (including attorneys  fees) incurred by Executive in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition (hereinafter, an  advancement of expenses ), provided, however, that, if the Delaware General Corporation Law  
    18 

so requires, an advancement of expenses incurred by Executive in his or her capacity as such shall be made only upon delivery to the Company of an undertaking (hereinafter, an  Undertaking ), by or on behalf of such Executive, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined by final judicial decision from which there is no further right to appeal (hereinafter, a  Final Adjudication ) that Executive was not entitled to be indemnified for such expenses under this Section 21 or otherwise. The rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses conferred in Subsections 21(a) and (b) hereof shall be contract rights and such rights shall continue even after Executive ceases to be employed by the Company and shall inure to the benefit of Executive s heirs, executors and administrators. 
    
  (c)  If a claim under Section 21(a) or (b) hereof is not paid in full by the Company within sixty (60) days after a written claim therefore has been received by the Company, except in the case of a claim for an advancement of expenses, in which case the applicable period shall be twenty (20) days, Executive may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Company to recover the unpaid amount of the claim. If Executive is successful in whole or in part in any such suit, or in a suit brought by the Company to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an Undertaking, Executive shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting or defending such suit. In (i) any suit brought by Executive to enforce a right to indemnification hereunder (but not in a suit brought by Executive to enforce a right to an advancement of expenses) it shall be a defense that, and (ii) any suit brought by the Company to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an Undertaking, the Company shall be entitled to recover such expenses upon a final adjudication that, Executive has not met the applicable standard for indemnification set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law. To the fullest extent permitted by law, neither the failure of the Company (including its disinterested directors, committee thereof, independent legal counsel or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such suit that indemnification of Executive is proper in the circumstances because the Executive has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law, nor an actual determination by the Company (including its disinterested directors, committee thereof, independent legal counsel or its stockholders) that Executive has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall create a presumption that Executive has not met the applicable standard of conduct or, in the case of such a suit brought by Executive, be a defense to such suit. In any suit brought by Executive to enforce a right to indemnification or to an advancement of expenses hereunder, or brought by the Company to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the burden of proving that Executive is not entitled to be indemnified, or to such advancement of expenses, under this Section 25 or otherwise shall, to the extent permitted by law, be on the Company. 
    
  (d)  The rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses conferred in this Section 21 shall not be exclusive of any other right of indemnification which Executive or any other person may have or hereafter acquire by any statute, the Company s Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, including all rights of indemnification provided by the Indemnification Agreement entered into by Executive and the Company dated as of the date of this Employment Agreement. 
    
  (e)  The Company may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Company or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Company would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the Delaware General Corporation Law. 
    
    19 

22.  Withholding.    Anything to the contrary notwithstanding, all payments required to be made by Company hereunder to Executive or his estate or beneficiary shall be subject to the withholding of such amounts, if any, relating to tax and other payroll deductions as the Company may reasonably determine it should withhold pursuant to applicable law or regulation. 
    
  23.  Notices.    Any written notice required by this Agreement will be deemed provided and delivered to the intended recipient when (a) delivered in person by hand; or (b) three days after being sent via U.S. certified mail, return receipt requested; or (c) the day after being sent via by overnight courier, in each case when such notice is properly addressed to the following address and with all postage and similar fees having been paid in advance: 
    
  If to the Company:    Charter Communications, Inc. 
  Attn: General Counsel 
  400 Atlantic Street 
  Stamford, CT  06901  
    
  If to Executive:        Donald Detampel 
  To the address of the Executive on file with the Company 
  Either party may change the address to which notices, requests, demands and other communications to such party shall be delivered personally or mailed by giving written notice to the other party in the manner described above. 
  24.  Binding Effect.    This Agreement shall be for the benefit of and binding upon the parties hereto and their respective heirs, personal representatives, legal representatives, successors and, where applicable, assigns. 
  25.            Entire Agreement.    This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the listed parties with respect to the subject matter described in this Agreement and supersedes all prior agreements, understandings and arrangements, both oral and written, between the parties with respect to such subject matter, except to the extent said agreements, understandings and arrangements are referenced or referred to in this Agreement. This Agreement may not be modified, amended, altered or rescinded in any manner, except by written instrument signed by both of the parties hereto; provided, however, that the waiver by either party of a breach or compliance with any provision of this Agreement shall not operate nor be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach or compliance.  
  26.      Severability.    In case any one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall be held by any court of competent jurisdiction or any arbitrator selected in accordance with the terms hereof to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable in any respect, such provision shall have no force and effect, but such holding shall not affect the legality, validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement provided that the provisions held illegal, invalid or unenforceable does not reflect or manifest a fundamental benefit bargained for by a party hereto. 
  27.      Assignment.    Subject to the Executive s right to terminate in the event of a Change of Control hereunder, this Agreement can be assigned by the Company only to a company that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with the Company and which assumes all of the Company s obligations hereunder. The duties and covenants of Executive under this Agreement, being personal, may not be assigned or delegated except that Executive may assign payments due hereunder to a trust established for the benefit of Executive s family or to Executive s estate or to any partnership or trust entered into by Executive and/or Executive s immediate family members (meaning, Executive s spouse and lineal descendants). This agreement shall be binding in all respects on permissible assignees. 
    20 

28.      Notification.    In order to preserve the Company s rights under this Agreement, the Company is authorized to advise any third party with whom Executive may become employed or enter into any business or contractual relationship with, or whom Executive may contact for any such purpose, of the existence of this Agreement and its terms, and the Company shall not be liable for doing so. 
  29.      Choice of Law/Jurisdiction.    This Agreement is deemed to be accepted and entered into in St. Louis County, Missouri. Executive and the Company intend and hereby acknowledge that jurisdiction over disputes with regard to this Agreement, and over all aspects of the relationship between the parties hereto, shall be governed by the laws of the State of Missouri without giving effect to its rules governing conflicts of laws. Executive agrees that in any suit to enforce this Agreement, or as to any dispute that arises between the Company and the Executive regarding or relating to this Agreement and/or any aspect of Executive s employment relationship with Company, venue and jurisdiction are proper in the County of St. Louis, and (if federal jurisdiction exists) the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri in St. Louis, and Executive waives all objections to jurisdiction and venue in any such forum and any defense that such forum is not the most convenient forum. 
  30.      Section Headings.    The section headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any manner the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. 
  31.      Counterparts.    This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument. 
  32.      Section 409A Compliance.    The Company and Executive intend that the provisions of this Agreement comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A and the regulations and guidance issued thereunder and be interpreted in accordance therewith.  Executive will not have any discretion to designate the taxable year of payment of any amounts subject to Section 409A under any provision of this Agreement. 

21 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the parties have executed this Agreement on the date and year first above written. 
  CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. 
    
  By:        /s/ Thomas M. Rutledge           
  Thomas M. Rutledge 
  President and Chief Executive Officer 
    
  EXECUTIVE 

/s/ Donald Detampel               
  Name:        Donald Detampel 
    
    22 

</EX-10.38>

<EX-10.39>
 3
 chtr12312014exh1039.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.39

CHTR 12.31.2014 EXH 10.39 

Exhibit 10.39 
    
  EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 
    THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT   (the  Agreement ), dated and effective on  April 9, 2014 (the  Effective Date ) is made by and between CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC., a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), and JONATHAN HARGIS (the  Executive ). 
  RECITALS: 
    WHEREAS  , it is the desire of the Company to assure itself of the services of Executive by engaging Executive as its Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer and the Executive desires to serve the Company on the terms herein provided; 
    WHEREAS  , Executive s agreement to the terms and conditions of Sections 14, 15 and 16 are a material and essential condition of Executive s employment with the Company hereafter under the terms of this Agreement; 
    NOW, THEREFORE  , in consideration of the foregoing and of the respective covenants and agreements set forth below, the parties hereto agree as follows: 
  1.  Certain Definitions  . 
    
  (a)    Annual Base Salary  shall have the meaning set forth in   Section 5  . 
    
  (b)   Board  shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company. 
    
  (c)   Bonus  shall have the meaning set forth in   Section 6  . 
    
  (d)  The Company shall have  Cause  to terminate Executive s employment hereunder upon: 
    
  (i)  Executive s breach of a material obligation (which, if curable, is not cured within ten business (10) days after the Company provides written notice of such breach) or representation under this Agreement or breach of any fiduciary duty to the Company which, if curable, is not cured within ten business (10) days after the Company provides written notice of such breach; or any act of fraud or knowing material misrepresentation or concealment upon, to or from the Company or the Board; 
    
  (ii)  Executive s failure to adhere in any material respect to (i) the Company s Code of Conduct in effect from time to time and applicable to officers and/or employees generally, or (ii) any written Company policy, if such policy is material to the effective performance by Executive of the Executive s duties under this Agreement, and if Executive has been given a reasonable opportunity to cure this failure to comply within a period of time which is reasonable under the circumstances but not more than the thirty (30) day period after written notice of such failure is provided to Executive; provided that if Executive cures this failure to comply with such a policy and then fails again to comply with the same policy, no further opportunity to cure that failure shall be required; 
    
  (iii)  Executive s misappropriation (or attempted misappropriation) of a material amount of the Company s funds or property; 
    
  (iv)  Executive s conviction of, the entering of a guilty plea or plea of nolo contendere or no contest (or the equivalent), or entering into any pretrial diversion program  

or agreement or suspended imposition of sentence, with respect to either a felony or a crime that adversely affects or could reasonably be expected to adversely affect the Company or its business reputation; or the institution of criminal charges against Executive, which are not dismissed within sixty (60) days after institution, for fraud, embezzlement, any felony offense involving dishonesty or constituting a breach of trust or moral turpitude; 
    
  (v)  Executive s admission of liability of, or finding of liability for, a knowing and deliberate violation of any  Securities Laws.  As used herein, the term  Securities Laws  means any federal or state law, rule or regulation governing generally the issuance or exchange of securities, including without limitation the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; 
    
  (vi)  conduct by Executive in connection with Executive s employment that constitutes gross neglect of any material duty or responsibility, willful misconduct, or recklessness which, if curable, is not cured within ten business (10) days after the Company provides written notice of such breach; 
    
  (vii)  Executive s illegal possession or use of any controlled substance, or excessive use of alcohol at a work function, in connection with Executive s duties, or on Company premises;  excessive  meaning either repeated unprofessional use or any single event of consumption giving rise to significant intoxication or unprofessional behavior; 
    
  (viii)  Executive s willful or grossly negligent commission of any other act or failure to act in connection with the Executive s duties as an executive of the Company which causes or reasonably may be expected (as of the time of such occurrence) to cause substantial economic injury to or substantial injury to the business reputation of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company, including, without limitation, any material violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as described herein below. 
  If Executive commits or is charged with committing any offense of the character or type specified in   Section     1(d)(iv)  ,   (v)   or   (viii)   above, then the Company at its option may suspend the Executive with or without pay and such suspension shall not constitute  Good Reason  hereunder or for purposes of any other arrangement with the Company. If the Executive subsequently is convicted of, pleads guilty or nolo contendere (or equivalent plea) to, or enters into any type of suspended imposition of sentence or pretrial diversion program with respect to, any such offense (or any matter that gave rise to the suspension), the Executive shall immediately repay any compensation paid in cash hereunder from the date of the suspension. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any stock option or equity incentive plan or award agreement, all vesting and all lapsing of restrictions on restricted shares shall be tolled during the period of suspension and all unvested options and restricted shares for which the restrictions have not lapsed shall terminate and not be exercisable by or issued to Executive if during or after such suspension the Executive is convicted of, pleads guilty or nolo contendere (or equivalent plea) to, or enters into any type of suspended imposition of sentence or pretrial diversion program with respect to, any offense specified in   Section     1(d)(iv)  ,   (v)   or   (viii)   above or any matter that gave rise to the suspension. 
  (e)    Change of Control  shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events: 
    
  (i)  an acquisition of any voting securities of the Company by any  Person  or  Group  (as those terms are used for purposes of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Exchange Act of 1934, amended (the  Exchange Act )), immediately after which such Person has  Beneficial Ownership  (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the  
    2   of 22 

Exchange Act) of thirty-five percent (35%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding voting securities; provided, however, that voting securities which are acquired in a  Non-Control Transaction  (as hereinafter defined) assuming that the acquisition of voting securities for this purpose qualifies as Merger (as hereinafter defined) shall not constitute a Change of Control 
    
  (ii)  the individuals who as of the Effective Date are members of the Board (the  Incumbent Board ), cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the Board; provided, however, that if the election, or nomination for election by the Company s common stockholders, of any new director (excluding any director whose nomination or election to the Board is the result of any actual or threatened proxy contest or settlement thereof) was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Incumbent Board, such new director shall, for purposes of this Agreement, be considered as a member of the Incumbent Board; 
    
  (iii)  the consummation of a merger, consolidation or reorganization with or into the Company or in which securities of the Company are issued (a  Merger ), unless such Merger is a Non-Control Transaction. A  Non-Control Transaction  shall mean a Merger where: (1) the stockholders of the Company, immediately before such Merger own directly or indirectly immediately following such Merger more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the entity resulting from such Merger or its controlling parent entity (the  Surviving Entity ), (2) the individuals who were members of the Incumbent Board immediately prior to the execution of the agreement providing for such Merger constitute at least a majority of the members of the board of directors (or similar governing body) of the Surviving Entity, and (3) no Person other (X) than the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates or any of their respective employee benefit plans (or any trust forming a part thereof) that, immediately prior to such Merger was maintained by the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company, or (Y) any Person who, immediately prior to such Merger had Beneficial Ownership of thirty-five percent (35%) or more of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company, has Beneficial Ownership of thirty-five percent (35%) or more of the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities or common stock of the Surviving Entity;  
    
  (iv)  complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company (other than where assets of the Company are transferred to or remain with subsidiaries of the Company); or 
    
  (v)  the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its direct and indirect subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, directly or indirectly, to any Person (other than a transfer to a subsidiary or affiliate of the Company unless, such sale or disposition constitutes a Non-Control Transaction with the disposition of assets being regarded as a Merger for this purpose or the distribution to the Company s stockholders of the stock of a subsidiary or affiliate of the Company or any other assets). 
    
  (f)   Code  shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. 
    
  (g)   Committee  shall mean either the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board, or a Subcommittee of such Committee duly appointed by the Board or the Committee or any successor to the functions thereof. 
    
  (h)   Company  shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto. 
    
  (i)   Company Stock  shall mean the common stock, par value $.001 per share of the Company. 
    
    3   of 22 

(j)   Date of Termination  shall mean (i) if Executive s employment is terminated by Executive s death, the date of Executive s death and (ii) if Executive s employment is terminated pursuant to   Section 11(a)(ii)-(vi)  , the date of termination of employment, as defined in Section 409(A) regulations under the Code. 
    
  (k)  For purposes of this Agreement, Executive will be deemed to have a  Disability  if, due to illness, injury or a physical or medically recognized mental condition, (a) Executive is unable to perform Executive s duties under this Agreement with reasonable accommodation for 120 consecutive days, or 180 days during any twelve month period, as determined in accordance with this Section, or (b) Executive is considered disabled for purposes of receiving / qualifying for long term disability benefits under any group long term disability insurance plan or policy offered by Company in which Executive participates. The Disability of Executive will be determined by a medical doctor selected by written agreement of Company and Executive upon the request of either party by notice to the other, or (in the case of and with respect to any applicable long term disability insurance policy or plan) will be determined according to the terms of the applicable long term disability insurance policy / plan. If Company and Executive cannot agree on the selection of a medical doctor, each of them will select a medical doctor and the two medical doctors will select a third medical doctor who will determine whether Executive has a Disability. The determination of the medical doctor selected under this Section will be binding on both parties. Executive must submit to a reasonable number of examinations by the medical doctor making the determination of Disability under this Section, and to other specialists designated by such medical doctor, and Executive hereby authorizes the disclosure and release to Company of such determination and all supporting medical records. If Executive is not legally competent, Executive s legal guardian or duly authorized attorney-in-fact will act in Executive s stead under this Section for the purposes of submitting Executive to the examinations, and providing the authorization of disclosure, required under this Section. 
    
  (l)   Executive  shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto. 
    
  (m)   Good Reason  shall mean any of the events described herein that occur without Executive s prior written consent: (i) any reduction in Executive s Annual Base Salary, Target Bonus Percentage, or title except as permitted hereunder, (ii) any failure to pay Executive s compensation hereunder when due; (iii) any material breach by the Company of a material term of this Agreement; (iv) relocation of Executive s primary workplace to a location that is more than fifty (50) miles from the office where Executive is then assigned to work as Executive s principal office; (v) a transfer or reassignment to another executive of material responsibilities that have been assigned to Executive (and were not identified by the Company to be assigned only on an interim basis at the time of assignment or thereafter) and generally are part of the responsibilities and functions assigned to an Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of a public corporation unless a Non-renewal Notice has been delivered to Executive at any time within one hundred ninety (190) days prior to the end of the term of this Agreement     (in each case  (i)  through  (v)  only if Executive provides written notice of such event within 30 days after the occurrence of such events, the Company fails to retract and/or rectify the claimed Good Reason within 30 days following Company s receipt of timely written notice from Executive and Executive terminates employment within 10 days of the expiration of such cure period); (vi) if within six months after a Change of Control, Executive has not received an offer from the surviving company to continue in Executive s position immediately prior to such Change of Control under at least the same terms and conditions (except that the value of equity-based compensation after such Change of Control need only be commensurate with the value of equity-based compensation given to  
    4   of 22 

executives with equivalent positions in the surviving company, if any) as set herein; or (vii) the failure of a successor to the business of the Company to assume the Company s obligations under this Agreement in the event of a Change of Control during its term. 
    
  (n)   Notice of Termination  shall have the meaning set forth in   Section 11(b)  . 
    
  (o)   Non-renewal Notice  shall have the meaning set forth in   Section 2  .   
    
  (p)   Person  shall have the meaning set forth in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 
    
  (q)   Term  shall have the meaning set forth in   Section 2  . 
    
  (r)   Voluntary  and  Voluntarily  in connection with Executive s termination of employment shall mean a termination of employment resulting from the initiative of the Executive, excluding a termination of employment attributable to Executive s death or Disability. A resignation by Executive that is in response to a communicated intent by the Company to discharge Executive other than for Cause is not considered to be  Voluntary  and shall be considered to be a termination by the Company for the purposes of this Agreement. 
    
  2.  Employment Term  .    The Company hereby employs the Executive, and the Executive hereby accepts employment, under the terms and conditions hereof, for the period (the  Term ) beginning on the Effective Date hereof and terminating upon the earlier of (i) April 9, 2016 (the  Initial Term ) and (ii) the Date of Termination.  The Company may, in its sole discretion, extend the term of this Agreement for additional one-year periods.  If the Company fails to provide Executive with at least one hundred eighty (180) days notice prior to the end of the Initial Term or any extension thereof of the Company s intent to not renew this Agreement (the  Non-renewal Notice ), the Initial Term or any previous extension thereof shall be extended one day for each day the Company does not provide the Non-renewal Notice.  If the Company fails to provide any Non-renewal Notice and does not extend the term of this Agreement, the Non-renewal Notice shall be deemed to have been given to Executive on the last day of the term of this Agreement. 
    
  3.  Position and Duties  .    Executive shall serve as Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer reporting to the Chief Operating Officer, with such responsibilities, duties and authority as are customary for such role, including, but not limited to, overall management responsibility for the marketing operations and strategy in the Company. Executive shall devote all necessary business time and attention, and employ Executive s reasonable best efforts, toward the fulfillment and execution of all assigned duties, and the satisfaction of defined annual and/or longer-term performance criteria. 
    
  4.  Place of Performance  .    In connection with Executive s employment during the Term, Executive s initial primary workplace shall be the Company s offices in or near Stamford, Connecticut except for necessary travel on the Company s business. 
    
  5.  Annual Base Salary  .    During the Term and beginning on the Effective Date, Executive shall receive a base salary at a rate not less than $565,000     per annum (the  Annual Base Salary ), less standard deductions, paid in accordance with the Company s general payroll practices for executives, but no less frequently than monthly. The Annual Base Salary shall compensate Executive for any position or directorship of a subsidiary or affiliate that Executive is asked to hold in the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates as a part of Executive s employment responsibilities. No less frequently than annually during the Term, the Committee, on advice of the  
    5   of 22 

Company s Chief Executive Officer, shall review the rate of Annual Base Salary payable to Executive, and may, in its discretion, increase the rate of Annual Base Salary payable hereunder; provided, however, that any increased rate shall thereafter be the rate of  Annual Base Salary  hereunder. 
    
  6.  Bonus.    Except as otherwise provided for herein, for each fiscal year or other period consistent with the Company s then-applicable normal employment practices during which Executive is employed hereunder on the last day (the  Bonus Year ), Executive shall be eligible to receive a bonus in an amount equal to 75% of Executive s Annual Base Salary (the  Target Bonus ) with the actual bonus payout depending on the achievement of target levels of performance for that year (the  Bonus ) pursuant to, and as set forth in, the terms of the Executive Bonus Plan as such Plan may be amended from time to time, plus such other bonus payments, if any, as shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, with such Bonus and other bonuses being paid on or before March 15 of the calendar year next following the Bonus Year.  
    
  7.  Additional Incentives.    The Company, may, in its discretion, grant to Executive additional cash or equity-based incentives, including options, restricted shares or performance share units.  
    
  8.  Benefits.    Executive shall be entitled to receive such benefits and to participate in such employee group benefit plans, including life, health and disability insurance policies, and financial planning services, and other perquisites and plans as are generally provided by the Company to its senior executives of comparable level and responsibility in accordance with the plans, practices and programs of the Company, as amended from time to time; provided that, Executive shall not participate in any severance plan of the Company. 
    
  9.  Expenses.    The Company shall reimburse Executive for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred by Executive in connection with the performance of Executive s duties as an employee of the Company in accordance with the Company s generally applicable policies and procedures. Such reimbursement is subject to the submission to the Company by Executive of appropriate documentation and/or vouchers in accordance with the customary procedures of the Company for expense reimbursement, as such procedures may be revised by the Company from time to time hereafter.  In no event will an expense be reimbursed later than the last day of the calendar year following the calendar in year in which such expense is incurred. 
    
  10.  Vacations.    Executive shall be entitled to paid vacation in accordance with the Company s Executive Time Off Program as in effect from time to time.  A copy of the current Vacation Policy - Supplement for SVPs and above has been provided to Executive.  Executive shall also be entitled to paid holidays and personal days in accordance with the Company s Executive Time Off Program as in effect from time to time. 
    
  11.  Termination. 
    
  (a)  Executive s employment hereunder may be terminated by the Company, on the one hand, or Executive, on the other hand, as applicable, without any breach of this Agreement, under the following circumstances: 
    
  (i)  Death.    Executive s employment hereunder shall automatically terminate upon Executive s death. 
    
  (ii)  Disability.    If Executive has incurred a Disability, the Company may give Executive written notice of its intention to terminate Executive s employment. In such event, Executive s employment with the Company shall terminate effective on the 14th  
    6   of 22 

day after delivery of such notice to Executive, provided that within the 14 days after such delivery, Executive shall not have returned to full-time performance of Executive s duties. Executive may provide notice to the Company of Executive s resignation on account of a bona fide Disability at any time. 
    
  (iii)  Cause.    The Company may terminate Executive s employment hereunder for Cause effectively immediately upon delivery of notice to Executive, taking into account any procedural requirements set forth under   Section 1(d)   above. 
    
  (iv)  Good Reason.    Executive may terminate Executive s employment herein for Good Reason upon (i) satisfaction of any advance notice and other procedural requirements set forth under   Section 1(m)   above for any termination pursuant to   Section 1(m)(i)   through   (v)  ; or (ii) at least 30 days  advance written notice by the Executive for any termination pursuant to   Section 1(m)(vi)   through   (vii)  .   
  (v)      Without Cause.    The Company may terminate Executive s employment hereunder without Cause upon written notice to the Executive. 
  (vi)      Resignation Without Good Reason.   Executive may resign Executive s employment without Good Reason upon at least fourteen (14) days  written notice to the Company. 
  (b)  Notice of Termination.   Any termination of Executive s employment by the Company or by Executive under this   Section 11   (other than pursuant to   Sections 11(a)(i)  ) shall be communicated by a written notice (the  Notice of Termination ) to the other party hereto, indicating the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon, setting forth in reasonable detail any facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of Executive s employment under the provision so indicated, and specifying a Date of Termination which notice shall be delivered within the applicable time periods set forth in   Section 11(a)(ii)-(vi)   above ( the  Notice Period  provided that, the Company may pay to Executive all Annual Base Salary, benefits and other rights due to Executive during such Notice Period instead of employing Executive during such Notice Period. 
    
  (c)  Resignation from Representational Capacities.   Executive hereby acknowledges and agrees that upon Executive s termination of employment with the Company for whatever reason, Executive shall be deemed to have, and shall have in fact, effectively resigned from all executive, director, offices, or other positions with the Company or its affiliates at the time of such termination of employment, and shall return all property owned by the Company and in Executive s possession, including all hardware, files and documents, at that time. 
    
  (d)  Termination in Connection with Change of Control.    If Executive s employment is terminated by the Company without Cause or a Non-renewal Notice has been delivered to Executive either upon or within thirty days before or thirteen (13) months after a Change of Control, or prior to a Change of Control at the request of a prospective purchaser whose proposed purchase would constitute a Change of Control upon its completion, such termination or delivery of a Non-renewal Notice shall be deemed to constitute a termination by the Company without Cause and shall be deemed to have occurred immediately before such Change of Control for purposes of this Agreement and the Plan. 

(a)  Effective upon the termination of Executive s employment, Company will be obligated to pay Executive (or, in the event of Executive s death, the Executive s designated  
    7   of 22 

beneficiary as defined below) only such compensation as is provided in this   Section 12  , except to the extent otherwise provided for in any Company stock incentive, stock option or cash award plan (including, among others, the Plan), approved by the Board. For purposes of this   Section 12  , Executive s designated beneficiary will be such individual beneficiary or trust, located at such address, as Executive may designate by notice to Company from time to time or, if Executive fails to give notice to Company of such a beneficiary, Executive s estate. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, Company will have no duty, in any circumstances, to attempt to open an estate on behalf of Executive, to determine whether any beneficiary designated by Executive is alive or to ascertain the address of any such beneficiary, to determine the existence of any trust, to determine whether any person purporting to act as Executive s personal representative (or the trustee of a trust established by Executive) is duly authorized to act in that capacity, or to locate or attempt to locate any beneficiary, personal representative, or trustee 
    
  (b)  Termination by Executive for Good Reason or by Company without Cause.   If prior to expiration of the Term, Executive terminates his or her employment for Good Reason, or if the Company terminates Executive s employment other than for Cause or Executive s death or Disability, Executive will be entitled to receive, subject to the conditions of this Agreement, the following: 
    
  (i)  (A) all Annual Base Salary and Bonus duly payable under the applicable plan for performance periods ending prior to the Date of Termination, but unpaid as of the Date of Termination, plus (B) in consideration for Executive s obligations set forth in   Sections 14, 15 and 16   hereof, an amount equal to two (2) times the Executive s then-current rate of Annual Base Salary and Target Bonus, which total sum shall be payable immediately following the Date of Termination in fifty-two (52) equal bi-weekly installments in accordance with the Company s normal payroll practices commencing with the next payroll date immediately following the 30 day anniversary of the Date of Termination; provided that, if a Change of Control occurs (or is deemed pursuant to   Section 11(d)   hereof to have occurred after such termination) during such twenty-four (24) month period (and such Change of Control qualifies either as a  change in the ownership or effective control  of the Company or a  change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets  of the Company as such terms are defined under Section 409A of the Code), any amounts remaining payable to Executive hereunder shall be paid in a single lump sum immediately upon such Change of Control; 
    
  (ii)  all reasonable expenses Executive has incurred in the pursuit of Executive s duties under this Agreement through the Date of Termination which are payable under and in accordance with this Agreement, which amount will be paid within thirty (30) days after the submission by Executive of properly completed reimbursement requests on the Company s standard forms, provided that, in no event will an expense be reimbursed later than the last day of the calendar year following the calendar in year in which such expense is incurred; 
    
  (iii)  a lump sum payment (net after deduction of taxes and other required withholdings) equal to twenty-four (24) times the monthly cost, at the time Executive s employment terminated, for Executive to receive under COBRA the paid coverage for health, dental and vision benefits then being provided for Executive at the Company s cost at the time Executive s employment terminated. This amount will be paid on the next payroll date immediately following the 30 day anniversary of the Date of Termination and will not take into account future increases in costs during the applicable time period;  
    
  (iv)  vesting of equity awards and long term incentives as provided in the applicable award agreement and plan;   and 
    
    8   of 22 

(v)  pay the cost of up to twelve (12) months, as required, of executive-level outplacement services (which provides as part of the outplacement services the use of an office and secretarial support as near as reasonably practicable to Executive s residence), provided that, in no event will an expense be reimbursed later than the last day of the calendar year following the calendar in year in which such expense is incurred;. 
    
  (c)  The Executive shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payments provided in   Section 12  , by seeking other employment or otherwise, nor shall the amount of any payment provided for in this   Section 12   be reduced by any compensation earned by Executive as a result of employment by another company or business, or by profits earned by Employee from any other source at any time before or after the date of Termination, so long as Executive is not in breach of the Agreement. 
    
  (d)  Termination by Executive without Good Reason or by Company for Cause.    If prior to the expiration of the Term or thereafter, Executive Voluntarily terminates Executive s employment prior to expiration of the Term without Good Reason or if Company terminates this Agreement for Cause, Executive will be entitled to receive Executive s then-existing Annual Base Salary only through the date such termination is effective in accordance with regular payroll practices and will be reimbursed for all reasonable expenses Executive has incurred in the pursuit of Executive s duties under this Agreement through the date of termination which are payable under and in accordance with this Agreement; any unvested options and shares of restricted stock shall terminate as of the date of termination unless otherwise provided for in any applicable plan or award agreement, and Executive shall be entitled to no other compensation, bonus, payments or benefits except as expressly provided in this paragraph.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, prior to the expiration of the Term, Executive Voluntarily terminates Executive s employment after the end of a fiscal year but prior to the date on which the Bonus described in   Section 6   is paid, Executive shall be entitled to receive such Bonus, to the extent earned and unpaid, in accordance with   Section 6  .   
    
  (e)  Termination upon Disability or Death.    If Executive s employment shall terminate by reason of Executive s Disability (pursuant to   Section 11(a)(ii)  ) or death (pursuant to   Section 11(a)(i)  ), the Company shall pay to Executive, in a lump sum cash payment following the Date of Termination, all unpaid Annual Base Salary through the Date of Termination in accordance with regular payroll practices and the Bonus previously earned for a performance period ending prior to the Date of Termination, but unpaid as of the Date of Termination, and the pro rata portion of the Bonus for such year (when and as such Bonuses are paid to other senior executives of the Company) for the Performance Period in which the termination occurred. In the case of Disability, if there is a period of time during which Executive is not being paid Annual Base Salary and not receiving long-term disability insurance payments, the Company shall make interim payments equal to such unpaid disability insurance payments to Executive until commencement of disability insurance payments; provided that, to the extent required to avoid the tax consequences of Section 409A of the Code, as determined by independent tax counsel, the first payment shall cover all payments scheduled to be made to Executive during the first six (6) months after the date Executive s employment terminates, and the first such payment shall be delayed until the day that is six (6) months after the date Executive s employment terminates. 
    
  (f)  Benefits.    Except as otherwise required by law, Executive s accrual of, and participation in plans providing for, the Benefits will cease at the effective Date of the Termination of employment. 
    
  (g)  Conditions To Payments.    To be eligible to receive (and continue to receive) and retain the payments and benefits described in   Sections 12(b)(i)   and   12(e)   (other than a termination by reason of Executive s death as set forth in   Section 11(a)(i)  ), Executive must comply with the  
    9   of 22 

provisions of   Sections 14, 15 and 16  . In addition, to be eligible to receive (and continue to receive) and retain the payments and benefits described in   Sections 12(b) and 12(e)   Executive (or Executive s executor and personal representatives in case of death) must execute and deliver to Company, and comply with, an agreement, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Company, effectively releasing and giving up all claims Executive may have against Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates (and each of their respective controlling shareholders, employees, directors, officers, plans, fiduciaries, insurers and agents) arising out of or based upon any facts or conduct occurring prior to that date. The agreement will be prepared by Company, will be based upon the standard form (if any) then being utilized by Company for executive separations when severance is being paid, and will be provided to Executive at the time Executive s employment is terminated or as soon as administratively practicable thereafter (not to exceed five (5) business days). The agreement will require Executive to consult with Company representatives, and voluntarily appear as a witness for trial or deposition (and to prepare for any such testimony) in connection with, any claim which may be asserted by or against Company, any investigation or administrative proceeding, any matter relating to a franchise, or any business matter concerning Company or any of its transactions or operations. It is understood that the final document may not contain provisions specific to the release of a federal age discrimination claim if Executive is not at least forty (40) years of age, and may be changed as Company s chief legal counsel considers necessary and appropriate to enforce the same, including provisions to comply with changes in applicable laws and recent court decisions. Payments under and/or benefits provided by   Section 12   will not continue to be made unless and until Executive executes and delivers that agreement to Company within twenty-one (21) days after delivery of the document (or such lesser time as Company s chief legal counsel may specify in the document) and all conditions to the effectiveness of that agreement and the releases contemplated thereby have been satisfied (including without limitation the expiration of any applicable revocation period without revoking acceptance).  
    
  (h)  Termination Following Expiration.    Executive shall not be entitled to any severance payment under this Agreement or otherwise upon a termination following the expiration of the term of this Agreement except as may result from a termination by the Company without Cause as provided in   Section 12(b)  . 
    
  (i)  Survival.    The expiration or termination of the Term shall not impair the rights or obligations of any party hereto which shall have accrued hereunder prior to such expiration, subject to the terms of any agreement containing a general release provided by Executive. 
    
  (j)  Definitions.    For purposes of this   Section 12  , the terms  termination of employment  or  terminate  when used in the context of termination of employment shall mean separation from service with the Company and its affiliates as the terms  separation from service  and  affiliate  are defined in Section 409A of the Code or the regulations thereunder.   
    
  (k)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this   Section 12  , any of the benefits described in this   Section 12   that are due to be paid or awarded during the first six-(6) months after the Date of Termination shall, to the extent required to avoid the additional taxes and penalties imposed under Section 409A of the Code (as determined by independent tax counsel), be suspended for six months and paid on the day after the sixth month anniversary of the Date of Termination.  All installment payments shall be considered to be a series of separate payments. 
    
           13. 
    Excess Parachute Payment. 
       
  (a)  Anything in this Agreement or the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, to the extent that any payment, distribution or acceleration of vesting to or for the benefit of Executive by the Company (within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code and the regulations thereunder),  
    10   of 22 

whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or otherwise (the  Total Payments ) is or will be subject to the excise tax imposed under Section 4999 of the Code (the  Excise Tax ), then the Total Payments shall be reduced (but not below zero) to the Safe Harbor Amount (as defined below) if and to the extent that a reduction of the Total Payments would result in Executive retaining a larger amount, on an after-tax basis (taking into account federal, state and local income and employment taxes and the Excise Tax), than if Executive received the entire amount of such Total Payments in accordance with their existing terms (taking into account federal, state, and local income and employment taxes and the Excise Tax). For purposes of this Agreement, the term  Safe Harbor Amount  means the largest portion of the Total Payments that would result in no portion of the Total Payments being subject to the Excise Tax. Unless Executive shall have given prior written notice specifying a different order to the Company to effectuate the foregoing, the Company shall reduce or eliminate the Total Payments, by first reducing or eliminating the portion of the Total Payments which are payable in cash and then by reducing or eliminating non-cash payments in such order as to provide Executive the largest amount of payments possible. Any notice given by Executive pursuant to the preceding sentence shall take precedence over the provisions of any other plan, arrangement or agreement governing Executive s rights and entitlements to any benefits or compensation. 
    
  (b)  The determination of whether the Total Payments shall be reduced as provided in   Section 13(a)   and the amount of such reduction shall be made at the Company s expense by an accounting firm selected by Company from among the ten largest accounting firms in the United States or by qualified independent tax counsel (the  Determining Party  provided that, Executive shall be given advance notice of the Determining Party selected by the Company, and shall have the opportunity to reject the selection, within two business days of being notified of the selection, on the basis of that Determining Party s having a conflict of interest or other reasonable basis, in which case the Company shall select an alternative auditing firm among the ten largest accounting firms in the United States or alternative independent qualified tax counsel, which shall become the Determining Party. Such Determining Party shall provide its determination (the  Determination ), together with detailed supporting calculations and documentation to the Company and Executive within ten (10) days of the termination of Executive s employment or at such other time mutually agreed by the Company and Executive. If the Determining Party determines that no Excise Tax is payable by Executive with respect to the Total Payments, it shall furnish Executive with an opinion reasonably acceptable to Executive that no Excise Tax will be imposed with respect to any such payments and, absent manifest error, such Determination shall be binding, final and conclusive upon the Company and Executive. If the Determining Party determines that an Excise Tax would be payable, the Company shall have the right to accept the Determination as to the extent of the reduction, if any, pursuant to   Section 13(a)  , or to have such Determination reviewed by another accounting firm selected by the Company, at the Company s expense. If the two accounting firms do not agree, a third accounting firm shall be jointly chosen by the Executive Party and the Company, in which case the determination of such third accounting firm shall be binding, final and conclusive upon the Company and Executive. 
    
  (c)  If, notwithstanding any reduction described in this   Section 13  , the IRS determines that Executive is liable for the Excise Tax as a result of the receipt of any of the Total Payments or otherwise, then Executive shall be obligated to pay back to the Company, within thirty (30) days after a final IRS determination or in the event that Executive challenges the final IRS determination, a final judicial determination, a portion of the Total Payments equal to the  Repayment Amount.  The Repayment Amount with respect to the payment of benefits shall be the smallest such amount, if any, as shall be required to be paid to the Company so that Executive s net after-tax proceeds with respect to the Total Payments (after taking into account the payment of the Excise Tax and all other applicable taxes imposed on the Payment) shall be maximized. The Repayment Amount shall be zero if a Repayment Amount of more than zero would not result in Executive s net after-tax proceeds with respect to the Total Payments being maximized. If the  
    11   of 22 

Excise Tax is not eliminated pursuant to this paragraph, the Executive shall pay the Excise Tax. 
    
  (d)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this   Section 13  , if (i) there is a reduction in the Total Payments as described in this   Section 13  , (ii) the IRS later determines that Executive is liable for the Excise Tax, the payment of which would result in the maximization of Executive s net after-tax proceeds (calculated as if Executive s benefits had not previously been reduced), and (iii) Executive pays the Excise Tax, then the Company shall pay to Executive those payments or benefits which were reduced pursuant to this   Section 13   as soon as administratively possible after Executive pays the Excise Tax (but not later than March 15 following the calendar year of the IRS determination) so that Executive s net after-tax proceeds with respect to the Total Payments are maximized. 
    
           14. 
    Competition/Confidentiality. 
       
  (a)  Acknowledgments by Executive.    Executive acknowledges that (a) during the Term and as a part of Executive s employment, Executive has been and will be afforded access to Confidential Information (as defined below); (b) public disclosure of such Confidential Information could have an adverse effect on the Company and its business; (c) because Executive possesses substantial technical expertise and skill with respect to the Company s business, Company desires to obtain exclusive ownership of each invention by Executive while Executive is employed by the Company, and Company will be at a substantial competitive disadvantage if it fails to acquire exclusive ownership of each such invention by Executive; and (d) the provisions of this   Section 14   are reasonable and necessary to prevent the improper use or disclosure of Confidential Information and to provide Company with exclusive ownership of all inventions and works made or created by Executive. 
    
  (b)  Confidential Information.    (i) The Executive acknowledges that during the Term Executive will have access to and may obtain, develop, or learn of Confidential Information (as defined below) under and pursuant to a relationship of trust and confidence. The Executive shall hold such Confidential Information in strictest confidence and never at any time, during or after Executive s employment terminates, directly or indirectly use for Executive s own benefit or otherwise (except in connection with the performance of any duties as an employee hereunder) any Confidential Information, or divulge, reveal, disclose or communicate any Confidential Information to any unauthorized person or entity in any manner whatsoever. 
    
  (ii)  As used in this Agreement, the term  Confidential Information  shall include, but not be limited to, any of the following information relating to Company learned by the Executive during the Term or as a result of Executive s employment with Company: 
    
  (A)  information regarding the Company s business proposals, manner of the Company s operations, and methods of selling or pricing any products or services; 
    
  (B)  the identity of persons or entities actually conducting or considering conducting business with the Company, and any information in any form relating to such persons or entities and their relationship or dealings with the Company or its affiliates; 
    
  (C)  any trade secret or confidential information of or concerning any business operation or business relationship; 
    
  (D)  computer databases, software programs and information relating to the nature of the hardware or software and how said hardware or software is used in combination or alone; 
    
    12   of 22 

(E)  information concerning Company personnel, confidential financial information, customer or customer prospect information, information concerning subscribers, subscriber and customer lists and data, methods and formulas for estimating costs and setting prices, engineering design standards, testing procedures, research results (such as marketing surveys, programming trials or product trials), cost data (such as billing, equipment and programming cost projection models), compensation information and models, business or marketing plans or strategies, deal or business terms, budgets, vendor names, programming operations, product names, information on proposed acquisitions or dispositions, actual performance compared to budgeted performance, long-range plans, internal financial information  (including but not limited to financial and operating results for certain offices, divisions, departments, and key market areas that are not disclosed to the public in such form), results of internal analyses, computer programs and programming information, techniques and designs, and trade secrets; 
    
  (F)  information concerning the Company s employees, officers, directors and shareholders; and 
    
  (G)  any other trade secret or information of a confidential or proprietary nature. 
    
  (iii)  Executive shall not make or use any notes or memoranda relating to any Confidential Information except for uses reasonably expected by Executive to be for the benefit of the Company, and will, at Company s request, return each original and every copy of any and all notes, memoranda, correspondence, diagrams or other records, in written or other form, that Executive may at any time have within his possession or control that contain any Confidential Information. 
    
  (iv)  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Confidential Information shall not include information which has come within the public domain through no fault of or action by Executive or which has become rightfully available to Executive on a non-confidential basis from any third party, the disclosure of which to Executive does not violate any contractual or legal obligation such third party has to the Company or its affiliates with respect to such Confidential Information. None of the foregoing obligations and restrictions applies to any part of the Confidential Information that Executive demonstrates was or became generally available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure by Executive or by any other person bound by a confidentiality obligation to the Company in respect of such Confidential Information. 
    
  (v)  Executive will not remove from the Company s premises (except to the extent such removal is for purposes of the performance of Executive s duties at home or while traveling, or except as otherwise specifically authorized by Company) any Company document, record, notebook, plan, model, component, device, or computer software or code, whether embodied in a disk or in any other form (collectively, the  Proprietary Items ). Executive recognizes that, as between Company and Executive, all of the Proprietary Items, whether or not developed by Executive, are the exclusive property of the Company. Upon termination of Executive s employment by either party, or upon the request of Company during the Term, Executive will return to Company all of the Proprietary Items in Executive s possession or subject to Executive s control, including all equipment (e.g., laptop computers, cell phone, portable e-mail devices, etc.), documents, files and data, and Executive shall not retain any copies, abstracts, sketches, or other physical embodiment of any such Proprietary Items. 
    
           15. 
    Proprietary Developments. 
       
  (a)  Any and all inventions, products, discoveries, improvements, processes, methods, computer software programs, models, techniques, or formulae (collectively, hereinafter referred to  
    13   of 22 

as  Developments ), made, conceived, developed, or created by Executive (alone or in conjunction with others, during regular work hours or otherwise) during Executive s employment which may be directly or indirectly useful in, or relate to, the business conducted or to be conducted by the Company will be promptly disclosed by Executive to Company and shall be Company s exclusive property. The term  Developments  shall not be deemed to include inventions, products, discoveries, improvements, processes, methods, computer software programs, models, techniques, or formulae which were in the possession of Executive prior to the Term. Executive hereby transfers and assigns to Company all proprietary rights which Executive may have or acquire in any Developments and Executive waives any other special right which the Executive may have or accrue therein. Executive will execute any documents and to take any actions that may be required, in the reasonable determination of Company s counsel, to effect and confirm such assignment, transfer and waiver, to direct the issuance of patents, trademarks, or copyrights to Company with respect to such Developments as are to be Company s exclusive property or to vest in Company title to such Developments; provided, however, that the expense of securing any patent, trademark or copyright shall be borne by Company. The parties agree that Developments shall constitute Confidential Information. 
    
  (b)   Work Made for Hire.  Any work performed by Executive during Executive s employment with Company shall be considered a  Work Made for Hire  as defined in the U.S. Copyright laws, and shall be owned by and for the express benefit of Company. In the event it should be established that such work does not qualify as a Work Made for Hire, Executive agrees to and does hereby assign to Company all of Executive s right, title, and interest in such work product including, but not limited to, all copyrights and other proprietary rights. 
    
           16. 
    Non-Competition and Non-Interference. 
       
  (a)  Acknowledgments by Executive.    Executive acknowledges and agrees that: (a) the services to be performed by Executive under this Agreement are of a special, unique, unusual, extraordinary, and intellectual character; (b) the Company competes with other businesses that are or could be located in any part of the United States; and (c) the provisions of this   Section 16   are reasonable and necessary to protect the Company s business and lawful protectable interests, and do not impair Executive s ability to earn a living. 
    
  (b)  Covenants of Executive.    For purposes of this   Section 16  , the term  Restricted Period  shall mean the period commencing as of the date of this Agreement and terminating on the second anniversary (or, in the case of   Section 16(b)(iii)  , the first anniversary), of the date Executive s employment terminated provided that the  Restricted Period  also shall encompass any period of time from whichever anniversary date is applicable until and ending on the last date Executive is to be paid any payment under   Section 12   hereof. In consideration of the acknowledgments by Executive, and in consideration of the compensation and benefits to be paid or provided to Executive by Company, Executive covenants and agrees that during the Restricted Period, the Executive will not, directly or indirectly, for Executive s own benefit or for the benefit of any other person or entity other than the Company: 
    
  (i)  in the United States or any other country or territory where the Company then conducts its business: engage in, operate, finance, control or be employed by a  Competitive Business  (defined below); serve as an officer or director of a Competitive Business (regardless of where Executive then lives or conducts such activities); perform any work as an employee, consultant (other than as a member of a professional consultancy, law firm, accounting firm or similar professional enterprise that has been retained by the Competitive Business and where Executive has no direct role in such professional consultancy and maintains the confidentiality of all information acquired by Executive during his or her employment with the Company), contractor, or in any other capacity with, a Competitive Business; directly or indirectly invest or  
    14   of 22 

own any interest in a Competitive Business (regardless of where Executive then lives or conducts such activities); or directly or indirectly provide any services or advice to a any business, person or entity who or which is engaged in a Competitive Business (other than as a member of a professional consultancy, law firm, accounting firm or similar professional enterprise that has been retained by the Competitive Business and where Executive has no direct role in such professional consultancy and maintains the confidentiality of all information acquired by Executive during his or her employment with the Company). A  Competitive Business  is any business, person or entity who or which, anywhere within that part of the United States, or that part of any other country or territory, where the Company conducts business; owns or operates a cable television system; provides direct television or any satellite-based, telephone system-based, internet-based or wireless system for delivering television, music or other entertainment programming (other than as an ancillary service, such as cellular telephone providers); provides telephony services using any wired connection or fixed (as opposed to mobile) wireless application; provides data or internet access services; or offers, provides, markets or sells any service or product of a type that is offered or marketed by or directly competitive with a service or product offered or marketed by the Company at the time Executive s employment terminates; or who or which in any case is preparing or planning to do so. The provisions of this   Section 16   shall not be construed or applied (i) so as to prohibit Executive from owning not more than five percent (5%) of any class of securities that is publicly traded on any national or regional securities exchange, as long as Executive s investment is passive and Executive does not lend or provide any services or advice to such business or otherwise violate the terms of this Agreement in connection with such investment; or (ii) so as to prohibit Executive from working as an employee, consultant or contractor in the cable television business for a company/business that owns or operates cable television franchises (by way of current example only, Time Warner Cable, Cablevision, Cox or Comcast), provided that the company/business is not providing cable services in any political subdivision/ geographic area where the Company has a franchise or provides cable services (other than nominal overlaps of service areas) and the company/business is otherwise not engaged in a Competitive Business, and provided Executive does not otherwise violate the terms of this Agreement in connection with that work; 
    
  (ii)  contact, solicit or provide any service to any person or entity that was a customer franchisee, or prospective customer of the Company at any time during Executive s employment (a prospective customer being one to whom the Company had made a business proposal within twelve (12) months prior to the time Executive s employment terminated); or directly solicit or encourage any customer, franchisee or subscriber of the Company to purchase any service or product of a type offered by or competitive with any product or service provided by the Company, or to reduce the amount or level of business purchased by such customer, franchisee or subscriber from the Company; or take away or procure for the benefit of any competitor of the Company, any business of a type provided by or competitive with a product or service offered by the Company; or 
    
  (iii)  solicit or recruit for employment, any person or persons who are employed by Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or who were so employed at any time within a period of six (6) months immediately prior to the date Executive s employment terminated, or otherwise interfere with the relationship between any such person and the Company; nor will the Executive assist anyone else in recruiting any such employee to work for another company or business or discuss with any such person his or her leaving the employ of the Company or engaging in a business activity in competition with the Company. This provision shall not apply to secretarial, clerical, custodial or maintenance employees. 
  If Executive violates any covenant contained in this   Section 16  , then the term of the covenants in this Section shall be extended by the period of time Executive was in violation of the same. 
    15   of 22 

(c)  Provisions Pertaining to the Covenants  . Executive recognizes that the existing business of the Company extends to various locations and areas throughout the United States and may extend hereafter to other countries and territories and agrees that the scope of   Section 16   shall extend to any part of the United States, and any other country or territory, where the Company operates or conducts business, or has concrete plans to do so at the time Executive s employment terminates. It is agreed that the Executive s services hereunder are special, unique, unusual and extraordinary giving them peculiar value, the loss of which cannot be reasonably or adequately compensated for by damages, and in the event of the Executive s breach of this Section, Company shall be entitled to equitable relief by way of injunction or otherwise in addition to the cessation of payments and benefits hereunder. If any provision of   Sections 14, 15, or 16   of this Agreement is deemed to be unenforceable by a court (whether because of the subject matter of the provision, the duration of a restriction, the geographic or other scope of a restriction or otherwise), that provision shall not be rendered void but the parties instead agree that the court shall amend and alter such provision to such lesser degree, time, scope, extent and/or territory as will grant Company the maximum restriction on Executive s activities permitted by applicable law in such circumstances. Company s failure to exercise its rights to enforce the provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected by the existence or non existence of any other similar agreement for anyone else employed by Company or by Company s failure to exercise any of its rights under any such agreement. 
    
  (d)  Notices  . In order to preserve Company s rights under this Agreement, Company is authorized to advise any potential or future employer, any third party with whom Executive may become employed or enter into any business or contractual relationship with, and any third party whom Executive may contact for any such purpose, of the existence of this Agreement and its terms, and Company shall not be liable for doing so. 
    
  (e)  Injunctive Relief and Additional Remedy  . Executive acknowledges that the injury that would be suffered by Company as a result of a breach of the provisions of this Agreement (including any provision of   Sections 14, 15 and 16  ) would be irreparable and that an award of monetary damages to Company for such a breach would be an inadequate remedy. Consequently, Company will have the right, in addition to any other rights it may have, to obtain injunctive relief to restrain any breach or threatened breach or otherwise to specifically enforce any provision of this Agreement, and Company will not be obligated to post bond or other security in seeking such relief. Without limiting Company s rights under this Section or any other remedies of Company, if Executive breaches any of the provisions of   Sections 14, 15 or 16  , Company will have the right to cease making any payments otherwise due to Executive under this Agreement. 
    
  (f)  Covenants of Sections 14, 15 and 16 are Essential and Independent Covenants  . The covenants by Executive in   Sections 14, 15 and 16   are essential elements of this Agreement, and without Executive s agreement to comply with such covenants, Company would not have entered into this Agreement or employed Executive. Company and Executive have independently consulted their respective counsel and have been advised in all respects concerning the reasonableness and propriety of such covenants, with specific regard to the nature of the business conducted by Company. Executive s covenants in   Sections 14, 15 and 16   are independent covenants and the existence of any claim by Executive against Company, under this Agreement or otherwise, will not excuse Executive s breach of any covenant in   Sections 14, 15 or 16  . If Executive s employment hereunder is terminated, this Agreement will continue in full force and effect as is necessary or appropriate to enforce the covenants and agreements of Executive in   Sections 14, 15 and 16  . The Company s right to enforce the covenants in   Sections 14, 15 or 16   shall not be adversely affected or limited by the Company s failure to have an agreement with another employee with provisions at least as restrictive as those contained in   Sections 14, 15 or 16  , or by the Company s failure or inability to enforce (or agreement not to enforce) in full the  
    16   of 22 

provisions of any other or similar agreement containing one or more restrictions of the type specified in   Sections 14, 15 and 16   of this Agreement. 
    
           17. 
    Executive s Representations And Further Agreements. 
       
           (a) 
    Executive represents, warrants and covenants to Company that: 
       
  (i)  Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement by Executive nor the performance of any of Executive s duties hereunder in accordance with the Agreement will violate, conflict with or result in the breach of any order, judgment, employment contract, agreement not to compete or other agreement or arrangement to which Executive is a party or is subject; 
    
  (ii)  On or prior to the date hereof, Executive has furnished to Company true and complete copies of all judgments, orders, written employment contracts, agreements not to compete, and other agreements or arrangements restricting Executive s employment or business pursuits, that have current application to Executive; 
    
  (iii)  Executive is knowledgeable and sophisticated as to business matters, including the subject matter of this Agreement, and that prior to assenting to the terms of this Agreement, or giving the representations and warranties herein, Executive has been given a reasonable time to review it and has consulted with counsel of Executive s choice; and 
    
  (iv)  Executive has not provided, nor been requested by Company to provide, to Company, any confidential or non-public document or information of a former employer that constitutes or contains any protected trade secret, and will not use any protected trade secrets in connection with the Executive s employment. 
    
  (b)  During and subsequent to expiration of the Term, the Executive will cooperate with Company, and furnish any and all complete and truthful information, testimony or affidavits in connection with any matter that arose during the Executive s employment, that in any way relates to the business or operations of the Company or any of its parent or subsidiary corporations or affiliates, or of which the Executive may have any knowledge or involvement; and will consult with and provide information to Company and its representatives concerning such matters. Executive shall fully cooperate with Company in the protection and enforcement of any intellectual property rights that relate to services performed by Executive for Company, whether under the terms of this Agreement or prior to the execution of this Agreement. This shall include without limitation executing, acknowledging, and delivering to Company all documents or papers that may be necessary to enable Company to publish or protect such intellectual property rights. Subsequent to the Term, the parties will make their best efforts to have such cooperation performed at reasonable times and places and in a manner as not to unreasonably interfere with any other employment in which Executive may then be engaged. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed or interpreted as requiring the Executive to provide any testimony, sworn statement or declaration that is not complete and truthful. If Company requires the Executive to travel outside the metropolitan area in the United States where the Executive then resides to provide any testimony or otherwise provide any such assistance, then Company will reimburse the Executive for any reasonable, ordinary and necessary travel and lodging expenses incurred by Executive to do so provided the Executive submits all documentation required under Company s standard travel expense reimbursement policies and as otherwise may be required to satisfy any requirements under applicable tax laws for Company to deduct those expenses. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed or interpreted as requiring the Executive to provide any testimony or affidavit that is not complete and truthful. 
    17   of 22 

18.  Mutual Non-Disparagement.    Neither the Company nor Executive shall make any oral or written statement about the other party which is intended or reasonably likely to disparage the other party, or otherwise degrade the other party s reputation in the business or legal community or in the telecommunications industry. 
    
  19.  Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.    Executive agrees to comply in all material respects with the applicable provisions of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 ( FCPA ), as amended, which provides generally that: under no circumstances will foreign officials, representatives, political parties or holders of public offices be offered, promised or paid any money, remuneration, things of value, or provided any other benefit, direct or indirect, in connection with obtaining or maintaining contracts or orders hereunder. When any representative, employee, agent, or other individual or organization associated with Executive is required to perform any obligation related to or in connection with this Agreement, the substance of this section shall be imposed upon such person and included in any agreement between Executive and any such person. Failure by Executive to comply with the provisions of the FCPA shall constitute a material breach of this Agreement and shall entitle the Company to terminate Executive s employment for Cause. 
    
  20.  Purchases and Sales of the Company s Securities.    Executive has read and agrees to comply in all respects with the Company s Securities Trading Policy regarding the purchase and sale of the Company s securities by employees, as such Policy may be amended from time to time.  Specifically, and without limitation, Executive agrees that Executive shall not purchase or sell stock in the Company at any time (a) that Executive possesses material non-public information about the Company or any of its businesses; and (b) during any  Trading Blackout Period  as may be determined by the Company as set forth in the Policy from time to time. 

(a)  If Executive is made a party or is threatened to be made a party or is otherwise involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter, a  proceeding ), by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director or an officer of the Company or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to an employee benefit plan (hereinafter, a  Covered Person ), whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company to the fullest extent authorized by the Delaware General Corporation Law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended, against all expense, liability and loss (including attorneys  fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such Covered Person in connection therewith; provided, however, that, except as provided in   Section 21(e)   hereof with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, the Company shall indemnify any such Covered Person in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such Covered Person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board. 
    
  (b)  The Company shall pay the expenses (including attorneys  fees) incurred by Executive in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition (hereinafter, an  advancement of expenses ), provided, however, that, if the Delaware General Corporation Law so requires, an advancement of expenses incurred by Executive in his or her capacity as such shall be made only upon delivery to the Company of an undertaking (hereinafter, an  Undertaking ), by or on behalf of such Executive, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined by final judicial decision from which there is no further right to appeal (hereinafter, a  
    18   of 22 

Final Adjudication ) that Executive was not entitled to be indemnified for such expenses under this   Section 21   or otherwise. The rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses conferred in   Sections 21(a)   and   (b)   hereof shall be contract rights and such rights shall continue even after Executive ceases to be employed by the Company and shall inure to the benefit of Executive s heirs, executors and administrators. 
    
  (c)  If a claim under   Section 21(a) or (b)  ) hereof is not paid in full by the Company within sixty (60) days after a written claim therefore has been received by the Company, except in the case of a claim for an advancement of expenses, in which case the applicable period shall be twenty (20) days, Executive may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Company to recover the unpaid amount of the claim. If Executive is successful in whole or in part in any such suit, or in a suit brought by the Company to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an Undertaking, Executive shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting or defending such suit. In (i) any suit brought by Executive to enforce a right to indemnification hereunder (but not in a suit brought by Executive to enforce a right to an advancement of expenses) it shall be a defense that, and (ii) any suit brought by the Company to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an Undertaking, the Company shall be entitled to recover such expenses upon a final adjudication that, Executive has not met the applicable standard for indemnification set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law. To the fullest extent permitted by law, neither the failure of the Company (including its disinterested directors, committee thereof, independent legal counsel or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such suit that indemnification of Executive is proper in the circumstances because the Executive has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law, nor an actual determination by the Company (including its disinterested directors, committee thereof, independent legal counsel or its stockholders) that Executive has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall create a presumption that Executive has not met the applicable standard of conduct or, in the case of such a suit brought by Executive, be a defense to such suit. In any suit brought by Executive to enforce a right to indemnification or to an advancement of expenses hereunder, or brought by the Company to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the burden of proving that Executive is not entitled to be indemnified, or to such advancement of expenses, under this Section 21 or otherwise shall, to the extent permitted by law, be on the Company. 
    
  (d)  The rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses conferred in this   Section 21   shall not be exclusive of any other right of indemnification which Executive or any other person may have or hereafter acquire by any statute, the Company s Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, including all rights of indemnification provided by the Indemnification Agreement entered into by Executive and the Company dated as of the Effective Date. 
    
  (e)  The Company may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Company or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Company would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the Delaware General Corporation Law. 
    
  22.  Withholding.    Anything to the contrary notwithstanding, all payments required to be made by Company hereunder to Executive or his estate or beneficiary shall be subject to the withholding of such amounts, if any, relating to tax and other payroll deductions as the Company may reasonably determine it should withhold pursuant to applicable law or regulation. 
    
  23.  Notices.    Any written notice required by this Agreement will be deemed provided and delivered to the intended recipient when (a) delivered in person by hand; or (b) three days after  
    19   of 22 

being sent via U.S. certified mail, return receipt requested; or (c) the day after being sent via by overnight courier, in each case when such notice is properly addressed to the following address and with all postage and similar fees having been paid in advance: 
    
  If to the Company:    Charter Communications, Inc. 
  Attn: General Counsel 
  400 Atlantic Street 
  Stamford, CT  06901  
    
           If to Executive: 
    To the home address of the Executive most recently on file in the records of the Company 
     Either party may change the address to which notices, requests, demands and other communications to such party shall be delivered personally or mailed by giving written notice to the other party in the manner described above. 
  24.  Binding Effect.    This Agreement shall be for the benefit of and binding upon the parties hereto and their respective heirs, personal representatives, legal representatives, successors and, where applicable, assigns. 
    
  25.  Entire Agreement.    This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the listed parties with respect to the subject matter described in this Agreement and supersedes all prior agreements, understandings and arrangements, both oral and written, between the parties with respect to such subject matter, except to the extent said agreements, understandings and arrangements are referenced or referred to in this Agreement. This Agreement may not be modified, amended, altered or rescinded in any manner, except by written instrument signed by both of the parties hereto; provided, however, that the waiver by either party of a breach or compliance with any provision of this Agreement shall not operate nor be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach or compliance.  
    
  26.  Severability.    In case any one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall be held by any court of competent jurisdiction or any arbitrator selected in accordance with the terms hereof to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable in any respect, such provision shall have no force and effect, but such holding shall not affect the legality, validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement provided that the provisions held illegal, invalid or unenforceable does not reflect or manifest a fundamental benefit bargained for by a party hereto. 
    
  27.  Assignment.    Subject to the Executive s right to terminate in the event of a Change of Control hereunder, this Agreement can be assigned by the Company only to a company that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with the Company and which assumes all of the Company s obligations hereunder. The duties and covenants of Executive under this Agreement, being personal, may not be assigned or delegated except that Executive may assign payments due hereunder to a trust established for the benefit of Executive s family or to Executive s estate or to any partnership or trust entered into by Executive and/or Executive s immediate family members (meaning, Executive s spouse and lineal descendants). This agreement shall be binding in all respects on permissible assignees. 
    
  28.  Notification.    In order to preserve the Company s rights under this Agreement, the Company is authorized to advise any third party with whom Executive may become employed or enter into any business or contractual relationship with, or whom Executive may contact for any such purpose, of the existence of this Agreement and its terms, and the Company shall not be liable for doing so. 
    20   of 22 

29.  Choice of Law/Jurisdiction.    This Agreement is deemed to be accepted and entered into in St. Louis County, Missouri. Executive and the Company intend and hereby acknowledge that jurisdiction over disputes with regard to this Agreement, and over all aspects of the relationship between the parties hereto, shall be governed by the laws of the State of Missouri without giving effect to its rules governing conflicts of laws. Executive agrees that in any suit to enforce this Agreement, or as to any dispute that arises between the Company and the Executive regarding or relating to this Agreement and/or any aspect of Executive s employment relationship with Company, venue and jurisdiction are proper in the County of St. Louis, and (if federal jurisdiction exists) the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri in St. Louis, and Executive waives all objections to jurisdiction and venue in any such forum and any defense that such forum is not the most convenient forum. 
    
  30.  Section Headings.    The section headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any manner the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. 
    
  31.  Counterparts.    This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument. 
    
  32.  Section 409A Compliance.    The Company and Executive intend that the provisions of this Agreement comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A and the regulations and guidance issued thereunder and be interpreted in accordance therewith.  Executive will not have any discretion to designate the taxable year of payment of any amounts subject to Section 409A under any provision of this Agreement. 
  [remainder of page intentionally left blank] 

21   of 22 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the parties have executed this Agreement on the date and year first above written. 
  CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. 
    
  By:        /s/ Richard R. Dykhouse           
  Title: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary 
    
  EXECUTIVE 
    
  /s/ Jonathan Hargis               
  Name:        Jonathan Hargis 

22   of 22 

</EX-10.39>

<EX-12.1>
 4
 chtr12312014exh-121.htm
 EXHIBIT 12.1

CHTR 12.31.2014 EXH - 12.1 

Exhibit 12.1 

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 5
 chtr12312014exh-211.htm
 EXHIBIT 21.1

CHTR 12.31.2014 EXH - 21.1 

Exhibit 21.1 
  Subsidiaries of Charter Communications, Inc. 
  Entity Jurisdiction and Type 
  December 31, 2014 

Entity Name 
    Jurisdiction and Type 

Charter Communications, Inc. 
    Delaware corporation (Parent Company) 
      ACTV Transfers V, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      American Cable Entertainment Company, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Athens Cablevision, Inc.  
    Delaware corporation 
      Ausable Cable TV, Inc.  
    New York corporation 
      Bresnan Broadband Holdings, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Bresnan Broadband of Colorado, LLC 
    Colorado limited liability company 
      Bresnan Broadband of Montana, LLC 
    Montana limited liability company 
      Bresnan Broadband of Utah, LLC 
    Utah limited liability company 
      Bresnan Broadband of Wyoming, LLC 
    Wyoming limited liability company 
      Bresnan Communications, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Bresnan Digital Services, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Bresnan Microwave of Montana, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Cable Equities Colorado, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Cable Equities of Colorado Management Corp.  
    Colorado corporation 
      CC 10, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CC Fiberlink, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CC Michigan, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CC Systems, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CC V Holdings, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CC VI Fiberlink, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CC VI Operating Company, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CC VII Fiberlink, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CC VIII Fiberlink, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CC VIII Holdings, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CC VIII Leasing of Wisconsin, LLC 
    Wisconsin limited liability company 
      CC VIII Operating, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CC VIII, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CCH I Charter Merger Sub, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CCH I Holdings, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CCH I, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CCH I Spinco Sub, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CCH II, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CCH II Capital Corp.  
    Delaware corporation 
      CCHC, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CCI Exchange I, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CCO Fiberlink, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CCO Holdco Transfers VII, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CCO Holdings, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CCO Holdings Capital Corp.  
    Delaware corporation 
      CCO LP, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CCO NR Holdings, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 

Subsidiaries of Charter Communications, Inc. 
  Entity Jurisdiction and Type 
  December 31, 2014 

Entity Name 
    Jurisdiction and Type 

CCO Purchasing, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CCO Safari, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CCO SoCal I, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CCO SoCal II, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CCO SoCal Vehicles, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CCO Transfers, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      CCOH Safari, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (AL), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (CA), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (CO), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (CT), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (GA), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (IL), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (IN), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (KY), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (LA), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (MA), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (MI), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (MN), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (MO), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (MS), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (MT), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (NC), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (NE), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (NH), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (NV), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (NY), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (OH), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (OR), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (PA), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (SC), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (TN), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (TX), LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (UT), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (VA), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (VT), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (WA), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (WI), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (WV), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services (WY), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services VIII (MI), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advanced Services VIII (MN), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 

Subsidiaries of Charter Communications, Inc. 
  Entity Jurisdiction and Type 
  December 31, 2014 

Entity Name 
    Jurisdiction and Type 

Charter Advanced Services VIII (WI), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Advertising of Saint Louis, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Cable Leasing of Wisconsin, LLC 
    Wisconsin limited liability company 
      Charter Cable Operating Company, L.L.C.  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Cable Partners, L.L.C.  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Communications Entertainment I, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Communications Entertainment II, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Communications Entertainment, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Communications Holding Company, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Communications Holdings LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Communications, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Communications of California, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Communications Operating, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Communications Operating Capital Corp. 
    Delaware corporation 
      Charter Communications Properties LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Communications V, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Communications Ventures, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Communications VI, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Communications VII, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Distribution, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Fiberlink - Alabama, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Fiberlink AR-CCVII, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Fiberlink CA-CCO, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Fiberlink CC VIII, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Fiberlink CCO, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Fiberlink CT-CCO, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Fiberlink - Georgia, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Fiberlink - Illinois, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Fiberlink LA-CCO, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Fiberlink MA-CCO, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Fiberlink - Michigan, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Fiberlink - Missouri, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Fiberlink MS-CCVI, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Fiberlink NC-CCO, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Fiberlink - Nebraska, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Fiberlink NH-CCO, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Fiberlink NV-CCVII, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Fiberlink NY-CCO, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Fiberlink OH-CCO, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Fiberlink OR-CCVII, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Fiberlink - Pennsylvania, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Fiberlink SC-CCO, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 

Subsidiaries of Charter Communications, Inc. 
  Entity Jurisdiction and Type 
  December 31, 2014 

Entity Name 
    Jurisdiction and Type 

Charter Fiberlink - Tennessee, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Fiberlink TX-CCO, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Fiberlink VA-CCO, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Fiberlink VT-CCO, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Fiberlink WA-CCVII, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Gateway, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Helicon, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Home Security, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Investment, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter RMG, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Stores FCN, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Charter Video Electronics, Inc.  
    Minnesota corporation 
      Dalton Cablevision, Inc.  
    Delaware corporation 
      Falcon Cable Communications, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Falcon Cable Media, a California Limited Partnership  
    California limited partnership 
      Falcon Cable Systems Company II, L.P.  
    California limited partnership 
      Falcon Cablevision, a California Limited Partnership  
    California limited partnership 
      Falcon Community Cable, L.P.  
    Delaware limited partnership 
      Falcon Community Ventures I, Limited Partnership 
    California limited partnership 
      Falcon First Cable of the Southeast, Inc.  
    Delaware corporation 
      Falcon First, Inc.  
    Delaware corporation 
      Falcon Telecable, a California Limited Partnership  
    California limited partnership 
      Falcon Video Communications, L.P.  
    Delaware limited partnership 
      Helicon Group, L.P., The  
    Delaware limited partnership 
      Helicon Partners I, L.P.  
    Delaware limited partnership 
      Hometown T.V., Inc.  
    New York corporation 
      HPI Acquisition Co., L.L.C.  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Interlink Communications Partners, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Long Beach, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Marcus Cable Associates, L.L.C.  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Marcus Cable of Alabama, L.L.C.  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Marcus Cable, Inc.  
    Delaware corporation 
      Midwest Cable Communications, Inc.  
    Minnesota corporation 
      PCI Transfers VI, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Peachtree Cable TV, L.P.  
    Georgia limited partnership 
      Peachtree Cable T.V., LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Phone Transfers (AL), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Phone Transfers (CA), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Phone Transfers (GA), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Phone Transfers (NC), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Phone Transfers (TN), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Phone Transfers (VA), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 

Subsidiaries of Charter Communications, Inc. 
  Entity Jurisdiction and Type 
  December 31, 2014 

Entity Name 
    Jurisdiction and Type 

Plattsburgh Cablevision, Inc.  
    Delaware corporation 
      Renaissance Media, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Rifkin Acquisition Partners, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      RMG Transfers III, LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Robin Media Group, Inc.  
    Nevada corporation 
      Scottsboro TV Cable, Inc.  
    Alabama corporation 
      Tennessee, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      Tioga Cable Company, Inc.  
    Pennsylvania corporation 
      Vista Broadband Communications, LLC  
    Delaware limited liability company 
      VOIP Transfers (AL), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      VOIP Transfers (CA) LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      VOIP Transfers (GA), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      VOIP Transfers (NC), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      VOIP Transfers (TN), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 
      VOIP Transfers (VA), LLC 
    Delaware limited liability company 

Adcast North Carolina Cable Advertising, LLC 
    Joint Venture - Class B Member 
      Adlink Cable Advertising, LLC 
    Joint Venture - Class A Member 
      Charlotte Cable Advertising Interconnect, LLC    
    Joint Venture - Class B Member 
      Pacific Microwave 
    Joint Venture  
      TWC/Charter Dallas Cable Advertising, LLC 
    Joint Venture - Class B Member 
      TWC/Charter Green Bay Cable Advertising, LLC 
    Joint Venture - Class B Member 
      TWC/Charter Los Angeles Cable Advertising, LLC 
    Joint Venture - Class A Member 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 6
 chtr12312014exh-231.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.1

CHTR 12.31.2014 EXH - 23.1 

Exhibit 23.1 

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    
  The Board of Directors 
  Charter Communications, Inc.: 
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statement Nos. 333-190516, 333-163357, and 333-170475 on Form S-8 and No. 333-199655 on Form S-3 of Charter Communications, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) and registration statement No. 333-200809 on Amendment No. 4 to Form S-4 of CCH I, LLC of our report dated February 23, 2015, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive loss, changes in shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2014, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, which report appears in the December 31, 2014 annual report on Form 10 K of the Company. 

(signed) KPMG LLP 
    
  St. Louis, Missouri 
  February 23, 2015    

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 chtr12312014exh-311.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

CHTR 12.31.2014 EXH - 31.1 

Exhibit 31.1 
    
  I, Thomas M. Rutledge, certify that:  
    
           1. 
    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Charter Communications, Inc.; 
       
           2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
       
           3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
       
           4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
       
           (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
       
           (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
       
           (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
       
           (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 
       
           5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
       
           (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
       
           (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date:   February 23, 2015    
               /s/ Thomas M. Rutledge 

Thomas M. Rutledge  President and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 chtr12312014exh-312.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

CHTR 12.31.2014 EXH - 31.2 

Exhibit 31.2 
  I, Christopher L. Winfrey, certify that:  
    
           1. 
    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Charter Communications, Inc.; 
       
           2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
       
           3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
       
           4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
       
           (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
       
           (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
       
           (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
       
           (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 
       
           5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
       
           (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
       
           (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date:   February 23, 2015    
               /s/ Christopher L. Winfrey 

Christopher L. Winfrey  
  Chief Financial Officer 
  (Principal Financial Officer) 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 9
 chtr12312014exh-321.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

CHTR 12.31.2014 EXH - 32.1 

Exhibit 32.1 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE  OFFICER REGARDING PERIODIC REPORT CONTAINING   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
    
  I, Thomas M. Rutledge, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Charter Communications, Inc. (the "Company") in compliance with 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, hereby certify that, the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended   December 31, 2014   (the "Report") filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission:  
             
    fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
                
    the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ Thomas M. Rutledge 

Thomas M. Rutledge 
  President and Chief Executive Officer 
  February 23, 2015    

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 10
 chtr12312014exh-322.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

CHTR 12.31.2014 EXH - 32.2 

Exhibit 32.2 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL  OFFICER REGARDING PERIODIC REPORT CONTAINING   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
    
  I, Christopher L. Winfrey, the Chief Financial Officer of Charter Communications, Inc. (the "Company"), in compliance with 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, hereby certify that, the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended   December 31, 2014   (the "Report") filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission:  
               
    fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
                
    the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ Christopher L. Winfrey 

Christopher L. Winfrey 
  Chief Financial Officer  
  (Principal Financial Officer) 
  February 23, 2015    

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 11
 chtr-20141231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 12
 chtr-20141231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 13
 chtr-20141231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 14
 chtr-20141231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 15
 chtr-20141231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 16
 chtr-20141231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

