<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090211_10-K_edgar_data_731766_0001193125-09-025587_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2918751</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>946959</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>143786</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1521380</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>85</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>28</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-09-025587.hdr.sgml : 20090211
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090211172519
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-09-025587
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		33
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090211
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090211

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000731766
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS [6324]
		IRS NUMBER:				411321939
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MN
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-10864
		FILM NUMBER:		09590774

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		UNITEDHEALTH GROUP CENTER
		STREET 2:		9900 BREN ROAD EAST
		CITY:			MINNEAPOLIS
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55343
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9529361300

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		9900 BREN ROAD EAST
		CITY:			MINNETONKA
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55343

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	UNITED HEALTHCARE CORP/
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20000309

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	UNITED HEALTHCARE CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 E56hM9IbcD78ephNh//Mk+cj6dTaAZ1MChtTf/xS8AbFUhKEidGFhajApHvtmz3C
 +yEbG+oiKioJ2pabE+cK2Q==

 0001193125-09-025587.txt : 20090211

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

        UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549                  FORM 10-K                  (Mark One)    
     OR        
     Commission file number: 1-10864                  UNITEDHEALTH GROUP
INCORPORATED        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)                  

MINNESOTA   
     
   41-1321939    
 
     (State or other jurisdiction of       incorporation or organization)    
     
     (I.R.S. Employer       Identification No.)     

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP CENTER       9900 BREN ROAD EAST       MINNETONKA, MINNESOTA    
     
   55343    
 
   (Address of principal executive offices)   
     
   (Zip Code)    
     Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (952) 936-1300                  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:        

COMMON STOCK, $.01 PAR VALUE   
     
   NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE, INC.    
 
   (Title of each class)   
     
   (Name of each exchange on which registered)    
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE                 Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not
required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes         No           Indicate by checkmark if disclosure of delinquent
filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.             Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act. (Check one):       

Large accelerated filer          
      
  Accelerated filer          
 
    Non-accelerated filer          
      
  Smaller reporting company          
 
    (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).    Yes         No           The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30, 2008 was $31,658,322,386 (based on the last reported sale price of $26.25 per share on June 30, 2008, on the New York Stock
Exchange).*      As of February 4, 2009, there were 1,215,615,705 shares of the registrant s Common Stock, $.01 par value per share, issued and
outstanding.      Note that in Part III of this report on Form 10-K, we incorporate by reference certain information from our Definitive Proxy Statement for the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on June 2, 2009. This document will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) within the time period permitted by the SEC. The SEC allows us to disclose important information by
referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information.       

*  
  Only shares of voting stock held beneficially by directors, executive officers and subsidiaries of the Company have been excluded in determining this number.

Table of Contents  

      TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Page    
 
    PART I      

Item 1.   
      
   Business   
      
  1   

Item 1A.   
      
   Risk Factors   
      
  14   

Item 1B.   
      
   Unresolved Staff Comments   
      
  25   

Item 2.   
      
   Properties   
      
  25   

Item 3.   
      
   Legal Proceedings   
      
  25   

Item 4.   
      
   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   
      
  25   

PART II      

Item 5.   
      
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

26   

Item 6.   
      
   Selected Financial Data   
      
  30   

Item 7.   
      
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
      
  31   

Item 7A.   
      
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk   
      
  51   

Item 8.   
      
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
      
  52   

Item 9.   
      
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
      
  97   

Item 9A.   
      
   Controls and Procedures   
      
  97   

Item 9B.   
      
   Other Information   
      
  102   

PART III      

Item 10.   
      
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   
      
  102   

Item 11.   
      
   Executive Compensation   
      
  102   

Item 12.   
      
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    
      
  102   

Item 13.   
      
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   
      
  103   

Item 14.   
      
   Principal Accountant Fees and Services   
      
  103   

PART IV     

Item 15.   
      
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   
      
  104   

Signatures    
      
  112   

Exhibit Index    
      
  113   

Table of Contents  

      PART I        

ITEM 1.   
   BUSINESS           INTRODUCTION         Overview       UnitedHealth Group Incorporated is a diversified health and
well-being company, serving more than 70 million Americans (the terms  we,   our,   us  or the  Company  used in this report refer to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and our subsidiaries). Our focus is on
enhancing the performance of the health system and improving the overall health and well-being of the people we serve and their communities. We work with physicians and other health care professionals, hospitals and other key partners to expand
access to high quality health care. We help people get the care they need at an affordable cost, support the physician/patient relationship, and empower people with the information, guidance and tools they need to make personal health choices and
decisions.      During 2008, we managed approximately $115 billion in aggregate health care spending on behalf of the constituents and consumers we served. Our
primary focus is on improving the health care system by simplifying the administrative components of health care delivery, promoting evidence-based medicine as the standard for care, and providing relevant, actionable data that physicians, health
care professionals, consumers, employers and other participants in health care can use to make better, more informed decisions.      Through our diversified
family of businesses, we leverage core competencies in advanced technology-based transactional capabilities; health care data, knowledge and information; and health care resource organization and care facilitation to improve access to health and
well-being services, simplify the health care experience, promote quality and make health care more affordable. These core competencies are focused in two market areas   health benefits and health services. Health benefits are offered by
UnitedHealthcare and our Public and Senior Markets Group, which includes Ovations and AmeriChoice. Health services are provided by our Enterprise Services Markets Group, which includes OptumHealth, Ingenix and Prescription Solutions.      Our revenues are derived from premium revenues on risk-based products; fees from management, administrative, technology and consulting services; sales of a wide variety
of products and services related to the broad health and well-being industry; and investment and other income. We have four reporting segments:       

Health Care Services, which includes UnitedHealthcare, Ovations and AmeriChoice;          

OptumHealth;          

Ingenix; and          

Prescription Solutions         For a discussion of our
financial results by reporting segment, see Item 7,  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.        Additional Information       UnitedHealth Group Incorporated was incorporated in January 1977 in Minnesota. Our executive offices are located at
UnitedHealth Group Center, 9900 Bren Road East, Minnetonka, Minnesota 55343; our telephone number is (952) 936-1300.      You can access our website at
 www.unitedhealthgroup.com  to learn more about our Company. From that site, you can download and print copies of our annual reports to shareholders, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K,
along with amendments to those reports. You can also download from our website our Articles of Incorporation, bylaws and corporate governance policies, including  
       
   1   

Table of Contents  

our Principles of Governance, Board of Directors Committee Charters, and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. We make periodic reports and amendments
available, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports to the SEC. We will also provide a copy of any of our corporate governance policies published on our website free of charge, upon request. To request
a copy of any of these documents, please submit your request to: UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, 9900 Bren Road East, Minnetonka, MN 55343, Attn: Corporate Secretary.      Our transfer agent, Wells Fargo Shareowner Services, can help you with a variety of shareholder-related services, including change of address, lost stock certificates, transfer of stock to another person and other
administrative services. You can write to our transfer agent at: Wells Fargo Shareowner Services, P.O. Box 64854, St. Paul, Minnesota 55164-0854, email  stocktransfer@wellsfargo.com , or telephone (800) 468-9716 or (651) 450-4064.
       DESCRIPTION OF REPORTING SEGMENTS         Health
Care Services       Our Health Care Services reporting segment consists of the following businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations and AmeriChoice. The
financial results of UnitedHealthcare, Ovations and AmeriChoice have been aggregated in the Health Care Services reporting segment due to their similar economic characteristics, products and services, types of customers, distribution methods and
operational processes, and regulatory environment. These businesses also share significant common assets, including our contracted networks of physicians, health care professionals, hospitals and other facilities, information technology
infrastructure and other resources.        UnitedHealthcare        UnitedHealthcare offers a comprehensive array of consumer-oriented health benefit plans and services for large national employers, public sector employers, mid-sized employers, small businesses and individuals nationwide. UnitedHealthcare
facilitated access to health care services on behalf of approximately 26 million Americans as of December 31, 2008. With its risk-based product offerings, UnitedHealthcare assumes the risk of both medical and administrative costs for its
customers in return for a monthly premium, which is typically at a fixed rate for a one-year period. UnitedHealthcare also provides administrative and other management services to customers that self-insure the medical costs of their employees and
employees  dependants, for which UnitedHealthcare receives a fixed service fee per individual served. These customers retain the risk of financing medical benefits for their employees and employees  dependants, while UnitedHealthcare
provides coordination and facilitation of medical services, customer and health care professional services and access to a contracted network of physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals. These arrangements are typically used by the
larger employer groups, especially those serviced by UnitedHealthcare National Accounts (formerly known as Uniprise). At December 31, 2008, UnitedHealthcare National Accounts served approximately 400 large employer groups under these
arrangements, including 164 of the Fortune 500 companies. Small employer groups are more likely to purchase risk-based products because they are less willing to bear a greater potential liability for health care expenditures. UnitedHealthcare also
offers a variety of non-employer based insurance options for purchase by individuals, which are designed to meet the health coverage needs of these consumers and their families.      UnitedHealthcare offers its products through affiliates that are licensed as insurance companies, health maintenance organizations (HMOs), or third party administrators (TPAs). UnitedHealthcare s product strategy
centers on several principles: consumer choice, broad access to health professionals, and use of data and science to promote better outcomes, quality service and affordability. Integrated wellness programs and services help individuals make informed
decisions, maintain a healthy lifestyle and optimize health outcomes by coordinating access to care services and providing personalized, targeted education and information services.      UnitedHealthcare arranges for discounted access to care through approximately 580,000 physicians and other health care professionals, and 4,900 hospitals across the United States, which are also leveraged by our
Ovations  
       
   2   

Table of Contents  

and AmeriChoice businesses. The consolidated purchasing capacity represented by the individuals UnitedHealth Group serves makes it possible for
UnitedHealthcare to contract for cost-effective access to a large number of conveniently located care professionals. Directly or through UnitedHealth Group s family of companies, UnitedHealthcare offers:       

A comprehensive range of benefit plans integrating medical, ancillary and alternative care products so customers can choose benefits that are right for them;

Affordability across a broad set of price points and a wide product line, from offerings covering essential needs to comprehensive benefit plans, all of which offer
access to our broad-based proprietary network of contracted physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals with economic benefits reflective of the aggregate purchasing capacity of our organization;          

Innovative clinical programs that are built around an extensive clinical data set and the principles of evidence-based medicine;          

Consumer access to information about physician and hospital performance against quality and cost efficiency criteria based on claims data assessment through the
UnitedHealth Premium program;          

Physician and facility access to performance feedback information to support continuous quality improvement;          

Care facilitation services that use several identification tools, including proprietary predictive technology to identify individuals with significant gaps in care
and unmet needs or risks for potential health problems, and then facilitate appropriate interventions;          

Disease and condition management programs to help individuals address significant, complex disease states; and          

Convenient self-service tools for health transactions and information.         UnitedHealthcare s regional and national access to broad, affordable and quality networks of health care professionals has advanced over the past several years, with significant increases in access to services
throughout the United States. UnitedHealthcare has also organized health care alliances with select regional not-for-profit health plans to facilitate greater customer access and affordability.      We believe that UnitedHealthcare s innovation distinguishes its product offerings from its competition. Its consumer-oriented health benefits and services value
individual choice and control in accessing health care. UnitedHealthcare has programs that provide health education, admission counseling before hospital stays, care advocacy to help avoid delays in patients  stays in the hospital, support for
individuals at risk of needing intensive treatment and coordination of care for people with chronic conditions. Data-driven networks and clinical management are organized around clinical lines of service such as cardiology; congenital heart disease;
kidney disease; oncology; neuroscience; orthopedics; spine; women s health; primary care and transplantation to provide consumers with the necessary resources and information to make more informed choices when managing their health.
UnitedHealthcare also offers comprehensive and integrated pharmaceutical management services that achieve lower costs by using formulary programs that drive better unit costs for drugs, benefit designs that encourage consumers to use drugs that
offer better value and outcomes, and physician and consumer programs that support the appropriate use of drugs based on clinical evidence.      UnitedHealthcare provides innovative programs that enable consumers to take ownership and control of their health care benefits. These products include high-deductible consumer-driven benefit plans coupled with health reimbursement accounts
(HRAs), or health savings accounts (HSAs), and are offered on a self-funded and fully insured basis. UnitedHealthcare provided these products to approximately 24,000 group health plans, including approximately 150 employers in the large group
self-funded market serviced by the UnitedHealthcare National Accounts teams.      UnitedHealthcare s distribution system consists primarily of brokers and
direct and internet sales in the individual market; brokers in the small employer group market; and brokers and other consultant-based or direct  
       
   3   

Table of Contents  

sales for large employer and public sector groups. UnitedHealthcare s direct distribution efforts are generally limited to the individual market,
portions of the large employer group and public sector markets, and cross-selling of specialty products to existing customers.        Ovations   
     Ovations provides health and well-being services for individuals age 50 and older, addressing their unique needs for preventive and acute health care
services as well as for services dealing with chronic disease and other specialized issues for older individuals. Ovations is fully dedicated to this market segment, as it provides products and services in all 50 states, the District of Columbia,
and the U.S. territories. Ovations participates nationally in the Medicare program, offering a wide-ranging spectrum of Medicare products, including Medigap products that supplement traditional fee-for-service coverage, more traditional
health-plan-type programs under Medicare Advantage, Medicare Part D prescription drug coverage, and special offerings for beneficiaries who are chronically ill and/or Medicare and Medicaid dual-eligible.      Ovations has extensive capabilities and experience with distribution, including direct marketing to consumers on behalf of its key clients   AARP, the nation s
largest membership organization dedicated to the needs of people age 50 and over, state and U.S. government agencies and employer groups. Ovations also has distinct pricing, underwriting and clinical program management, and marketing capabilities
dedicated to risk-based health products and services in the senior and geriatric markets.      We currently have a number of contracts with Centers for
Medicare   Medicaid Services (CMS), which primarily relate to the Medicare health benefit programs authorized under the 2003 Medicare Modernization Act. Beginning January 1, 2006, we began serving as a plan sponsor offering Medicare
Part D prescription drug insurance coverage. Premium revenues from CMS were 25% of our total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008, most of which were generated by Ovations.      Ovations is organized into four major groups: SecureHorizons, Ovations Part D, Insurance Solutions and Evercare.        SecureHorizons.   SecureHorizons provides health care coverage for seniors and other eligible Medicare beneficiaries primarily through the Medicare Advantage
program administered by CMS. SecureHorizons offers Medicare Advantage HMO plans, preferred provider organization (PPO) plans, Special Needs Plans, Point-of-Service (POS) plans, and Private-Fee-for-Service plans. Under the Medicare Advantage
programs, SecureHorizons provides health insurance coverage to eligible Medicare beneficiaries in exchange for a fixed monthly premium per member from CMS that varies based on the geographic areas in which members reside, demographic factors such as
age, gender, and institutionalized status, and the health status of the individual. Most products are offered under the  AARP Medicare Complete provided through SecureHorizons  brand name. SecureHorizons offers Medicare Advantage products
in all 50 states. As of December 31, 2008, Ovations had approximately 1.5 million enrolled individuals in its Medicare Advantage products, including approximately 245,000 individuals served by Evercare.        Ovations Part D.   Ovations provides the Medicare prescription drug benefit (Part D) to beneficiaries throughout the United States and its territories. Among
the several Part D plans it offers, Ovations provides Medicare Part D coverage plans with the AARP brand. Ovations provides Part D drug coverage through its Medicare Advantage program, Special Needs Plans (covering individuals who live in an
institutional long-term care setting, individuals dual-eligible for Medicaid and Medicare services or individuals with severe or disabling chronic conditions) and stand-alone Part D plans. As of December 31, 2008, Ovations had enrolled
approximately 5.5 million members in the Part D program, including approximately 4.1 million members in the stand-alone Part D plans and approximately 1.4 million members in Medicare Advantage plans incorporating Part D coverage.
       Insurance Solutions.   Insurance Solutions offers a range of health insurance products and services to AARP members, and has expanded the
scope of services and programs offered over the past several years. Ovations  
       
   4   

Table of Contents  

provides standardized Medicare supplement and hospital indemnity insurance from its insurance company affiliates to approximately 3.8 million AARP
members. Additional Ovations services include a nurse healthline service, a lower cost standardized Medicare supplement offering that provides consumers with a national hospital network, 24-hour access to health care information, and access to
discounted health services from a network of physicians.        Evercare.   Evercare offers complete, individualized care planning and care benefits
for aging, disabled and chronically ill individuals. Evercare serves approximately 400,000 individuals (including approximately 245,000 individuals in the Medicare Advantage products) across the nation in long-term care settings including nursing
homes, community-based settings and private homes, as well as through hospice and palliative care. Evercare offers services through innovative care management and clinical programs. Evercare integrates federal, state and personal funding through a
continuum of products from Special Needs Plans and long-term care Medicaid programs to hospice care, and serves people in 36 states and in the District of Columbia in home, community and nursing home settings. These services are provided primarily
through nurse practitioners, nurses and care managers.      Evercare Solutions for Caregivers is a comprehensive eldercare service program providing service
coordination, consultation, claim management and information resources nationwide. Proprietary, automated medical record software enables the Evercare clinical care teams to capture and track patient data and clinical encounters, creating a
comprehensive set of coherent care information that bridges across home, hospital and nursing home care settings for high-risk populations. Evercare also operates hospice and palliative care programs in 10 states (15 markets).        AmeriChoice        AmeriChoice provides network-based health and
well-being services to beneficiaries of State Medicaid Children s Health Insurance Programs (SCHIP), and other government-sponsored health care programs. AmeriChoice provides health insurance coverage to eligible Medicaid beneficiaries in
exchange for a fixed monthly premium per member from the applicable state. At December 31, 2008, AmeriChoice provided services to approximately 2.4 million individuals in 22 states and in the District of Columbia. AmeriChoice also offers
government agencies a number of diverse management service programs, including clinical care consulting program, disease and conditions management, pharmacy benefit services and administrative and technology services, to help them effectively
administer their distinct health care delivery systems and benefits for individuals in their programs. AmeriChoice also contracts with CMS for the provision of Special Needs Plans serving individuals dual-eligible for Medicaid and Medicare services.
These programs are primarily organized toward enrolling individuals dual-eligible for Medicaid and Medicare coverage in states where AmeriChoice operates its Medicaid health plans.      AmeriChoice s approach is grounded in its belief that health care cannot be provided effectively without considering all of the factors (social, behavioral, economic, environmental, and physical) that affect a
person s life. AmeriChoice coordinates resources among family members, physicians, other health care professionals and government and community-based agencies and organizations to provide continuous and effective care. For members, this means
that the AmeriChoice Personal Care Model offers them a holistic approach to health care, emphasizing practical programs to improve their living circumstances as well as quality medical care and treatment in accessible, culturally sensitive,
community-oriented settings. For example, AmeriChoice s disease management and outreach programs focus on high-prevalence and debilitating illnesses such as hypertension and cardiovascular disease, asthma, sickle cell disease, diabetes, Human
Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (HIV/AIDS), cancer and high-risk pregnancy. Several of these programs have been developed by AmeriChoice with the help of leading researchers and clinicians at academic medical centers and
medical schools.      For physicians, the AmeriChoice Personal Care Model means assistance with coordination of their patients  care. AmeriChoice utilizes
sophisticated technology to monitor preventive care interventions and evidence-based  
       
   5   

Table of Contents  

treatment protocols to support care management. AmeriChoice operates advanced and unique pharmacy administrative services, including benefit design, generic
drug incentive programs, drug utilization review and preferred drug list development to help optimize the use of appropriate quality pharmaceuticals and concurrently manage pharmacy expenditures to levels appropriate to the specific clinical
situations. For state customers, the AmeriChoice Personal Care Model means increased access to care and improved quality for their beneficiaries, in a measurable system that reduces their administrative burden and lowers their costs.      AmeriChoice considers a variety of factors when determining in which state programs to participate and on what basis. They include a state s consistency of support
for service innovation and funding of its Medicaid program, the population base, the commitment of the physician/provider community to the AmeriChoice Personal Care Model, and the presence of community-based organizations that can partner with
AmeriChoice to meet member needs. AmeriChoice launched Medicaid programs in two new markets and expanded its presence and program offerings in several existing markets during 2008.       OptumHealth       OptumHealth serves approximately 60 million individuals with its diversified offering of health,
financial and ancillary benefit services and products that assist consumers in navigating the health care system and accessing services, support their emotional health, provide ancillary insurance benefits and facilitate the financing of health care
services through account-based programs. OptumHealth seeks to simplify the consumer health care experience and facilitate the efficient and effective delivery of care. Its capabilities can be deployed individually or integrated to provide
comprehensive, consumer-focused health and financial well-being solutions.      OptumHealth s simple, modular service designs can be easily integrated to
meet varying health plan, employer, payer, public sector and consumer needs at a wide range of price points. OptumHealth offers its products on an administrative fee basis where it manages and administers benefit claims for self-insured customers in
exchange for a fixed fee per individual served, and on a risk basis, where OptumHealth assumes responsibility for health care in exchange for a fixed monthly premium per individual served. For its financial services offerings, OptumHealth charges
fees and earns investment income on managed funds.      OptumHealth s products are distributed through the three strategic markets: the employer market
for both UnitedHealth Group customers and unaffiliated parties; the payer market for Health Care Services health plans, independent health plans, third-party administrators and reinsurers; and the public and senior markets for Medicare and state
Medicaid offerings through partnerships with Ovations, AmeriChoice and other intermediaries. Approximately 50 percent of the consumers that OptumHealth serves receive their major medical health benefits from a source other than UnitedHealth Group.
     OptumHealth is organized into four major groups: Care Solutions, Behavioral Solutions, Specialty Benefits and Financial Services.        Care Solutions.   Care Solutions serves approximately 40 million people through personalized health management solutions that improve the health and
well-being of members, improve clinical outcomes and work force productivity, and reduce costs for customers. It delivers its services through the use of evidence-based best practices and technology. Its clinically focused product portfolio includes
programs focused on disease management, care advocacy, wellness and complex condition management, such as cancer, solid organ transplant, infertility and congenital heart disease. To support its complex condition management programs, Care Solutions
negotiates competitive rates with medical institutions that have been designated as  Centers of Excellence  based on their satisfaction of clinical standards, including patient volumes and outcomes, medical team credentials and experience,
and patient and family support services.      Care Solutions also provides benefit administration and clinical and network management for chiropractic,
physical therapy, occupational therapy and other complementary and alternative care services through its national network consisting of approximately 23,000 chiropractors, 15,000 physical and occupational therapists and 7,000  
       
   6   

Table of Contents  

complementary and alternative health professionals. Care Solutions also offers treatment decision support, consumer health information, private health
portals and consumer health marketing services to address daily living concerns and assist individuals in accessing the health care system.        Behavioral Solutions.   Behavioral Solutions serves 43 million individuals with its employee assistance programs, work/life offerings, and clinically driven behavioral health, substance abuse and psychiatric disability
management programs. Its consumer-focused programs employ predictive modeling, outcomes management, supportive coaching and evidenced-based best practices to assist individuals in managing stress, depression, substance abuse and other personal
challenges while seeking to increase overall health, wellness and productivity. Its outreach programs promote timely detection and intervention to optimize the treatment for people struggling with both psychological and medical conditions.
Behavioral Solutions customers have access to a national network of approximately 83,000 clinicians and counselors and approximately 2,500 facilities in 4,600 locations.        Specialty Benefits.   Specialty Benefits includes dental, vision, life, critical illness, short-term disability and stop loss product offerings delivered through an integrated platform that enhances
efficiency and effectiveness. Approximately 15 million individuals receive their vision benefits through Specialty Benefits and its network of approximately 30,000 vision professionals in private and retail settings. Dental benefit management
and related services are provided to six million consumers through a network of approximately 110,000 dentists. Stop-loss insurance is marketed throughout the United States through a network of third-party administrators, brokers and consultants.
       Financial Services.   Financial services are provided through OptumHealth Bank and OptumHealth Financial Services (formerly known as
Exante Bank and Exante Financial Services, respectively). As of December 31, 2008, Financial Services had approximately $660 million in assets under management. Financial Services provides health-based financial services for consumers,
employers, payers and health care professionals. These financial services include HSAs, HRAs, and Flexible Spending Accounts offered through OptumHealth Bank, a Utah-chartered industrial bank. Financial Services  health benefit card
programs include electronic systems for verification of benefit coverage and eligibility. Financial Services also provides electronic payment and statement services for health care professionals and payers. In 2008, Financial Services
electronically transmitted $26 billion in medical payments to physicians and other health care providers.       Ingenix       Ingenix offers database and data management services, software products, publications, consulting and actuarial services, business process outsourcing services and
pharmaceutical data consulting and research services in conjunction with the development of pharmaceutical products on a nationwide and international basis. As of December 31, 2008, Ingenix s customers include approximately 6,000
hospitals, 240,000 physicians, 1,500 payers and intermediaries, 260  Fortune 500  companies, 300 life sciences companies, and 250 government entities, as well as other UnitedHealth Group businesses.      Ingenix is engaged in the simplification of health care administration with information and technology. Ingenix helps customers accurately and efficiently document, code
and bill for the delivery of care services. It also sells reference materials and coding guides that health care professionals use to bill payers for their services. Ingenix uses data to help advance transparency on cost and quality and help
customers streamline their processes to make health care more efficient. Ingenix is a leader in contract research services, and pharmacoeconomics, outcomes, drug safety and epidemiology research through its i3 businesses.      Ingenix s products and services are sold primarily through a direct sales force focused on specific customers and market segments across the pharmaceutical,
biotechnology, employer, government, hospital, physician, payer and property and casualty insurance market segments. Ingenix s products are also supported and distributed through an array of alliance and business partnerships with other
technology vendors, who integrate and interface its products with their applications.         
   7   

Table of Contents  

   Many of our contract research services, consulting arrangements and software and related information services are
performed over an extended period of time, often several years. We maintain an order backlog to track anticipated revenues yet to be earned for work that has not yet been performed under these long-term arrangements. Our backlog generally consists
of estimated revenue from signed contracts or other legally binding agreements that either have not started but are anticipated to begin in the near future, or are in process and have not been completed. Our estimated aggregate backlog at
December 31, 2008 was approximately $1.8 billion, including approximately $0.4 billion of intersegment agreements. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to realize all of the revenues included in backlog due to uncertainty
regarding the timing and scope of services and the potential for cancellation or early termination of certain service arrangements.      The Ingenix companies
are divided into two groups: Information Services and i3.        Information Services.   Information Services  diverse product offerings help
clients strengthen health care administration and advance health care outcomes. These products include health care utilization reporting and analytics, physician clinical performance benchmarking, clinical data warehousing, analysis and management
responses for medical cost trend management, physician practice revenue cycle management, including integrated electronic medical record systems, revenue cycle management for payer and health care professional organizations, decision-support portals
for evaluation of health benefits and treatment options, risk management solutions, connectivity solutions and claims management tools to reduce administrative errors and support fraud recovery services. Information Services uses proprietary
software applications that manage clinical and administrative data across diverse information technology environments. Information Services also uses proprietary predictive algorithmic applications to help clients detect and act on repetitive health
care patterns in large data sets. Information Services offers comprehensive Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) services helping health care professionals and payers decrease costs of claims transmission, payment and reimbursement through both
networked and direct connection services.      Information Services provides other services on an outsourced basis, such as verification of physician
credentials, health care professional directories, Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set (HEDIS) reporting, and fraud and abuse detection and prevention services. Information Services also offers consulting services, including actuarial
and financial advisory work through its Ingenix Consulting division and health care policy research, implementation, strategy and management consulting through its subsidiary, The Lewin Group, as well as product development, health care professional
contracting and medical policy management. Information Services also provides health care IT consulting for health care professionals. Information Services publishes print and electronic media products that provide customers with information
regarding medical claims coding, reimbursement, billing and compliance issues.        i3.   i3 helps to coordinate and manage clinical trials on a
nationwide and international basis for products in development for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. i3 s focus is to help these customers effectively and efficiently get drug data to appropriate regulatory bodies and to improve
health outcomes through integrated information, analysis and technology. i3 s capabilities and efforts focus on the entire range of product assessment, through commercialization of life-cycle management services   pipeline assessment,
market access and product positioning, clinical trials, economic, epidemiology and safety and outcomes research. i3 s services include global contract research services, protocol development, investigator identification and training, regulatory
assistance, project management, data management, biostatistical analysis, quality assurance, medical writing and staffing resource services. i3 delivers contract research services in 56 countries and is therapeutically focused on oncology, the
central nervous system, respiratory, infectious and pulmonary diseases, and endocrinology. i3 uses comprehensive, science-based evaluation and analysis and benchmarking services to support pharmaceutical and biotechnology development.       Prescription Solutions       Prescription Solutions offers a
comprehensive suite of integrated pharmacy benefit management (PBM) services to approximately 10 million people, delivering drug benefits through approximately 60,000 retail network  
       
   8   

Table of Contents  

pharmacies and two mail service facilities as of December 31, 2008. Prescription Solutions processed approximately 295 million adjusted
scripts in 2008 by servicing internal customers such as UnitedHealthcare, Ovations and AmeriChoice as well as external employer groups, union trusts, managed care organizations, Medicare-contracted plans (Part D, SecureHorizons and Evercare),
Medicaid plans and TPAs, including mail service only and carve-out accounts.      Prescription Solutions  integrated PBM services include retail
network pharmacy management, mail order pharmacy services, specialty pharmacy services, benefit design consultation, drug utilization review, formulary management programs, disease therapy management and adherence programs. Prescription
Solutions  products and services are designed to enhance clinical outcomes with reduced costs for those served. The fulfillment capabilities of Prescription Solutions are an important strategic component in serving commercial health plans
and Medicare-contracted businesses, including Part D.      Prescription Solutions  distribution system consists primarily of health insurance brokers and
other health care consultant-based or direct sales. In addition to PBM services, Prescription Solutions  Consumer Health Products division delivers diabetic testing and other specialized medical supplies, over the counter items, vitamins and
supplements directly to members  homes.        GOVERNMENT REGULATION        Most of our health and well-being services are regulated by federal and state regulatory agencies that generally have discretion to issue regulations and interpret and enforce laws and rules. This regulation can vary
significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Federal and state governments continue to enact and consider various legislative and regulatory proposals that could materially impact certain aspects of the health care system, including proposals to
address the affordability and availability of health insurance and to reduce the number of uninsured individuals. The interpretation of existing laws and rules also may change periodically. New laws, regulations and rules, or changes in the
interpretation of existing laws, regulations and rules, could negatively impact our business. We believe we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable laws, regulations and rules. In the event we fail to comply with federal and state
regulations, or fail to respond quickly and appropriately to health care reforms and frequent changes in federal and state regulations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. See
Item 1A,  Risk Factors  for a discussion of the risks related to compliance with federal and state government regulations.       Federal Laws
and Regulation       We are subject to various levels of federal regulation. Ovations and AmeriChoice Medicare and Medicaid businesses are regulated by CMS.
CMS has the right to audit performance to determine compliance with CMS contracts and regulations and the quality of care being given to Medicare beneficiaries. Our Health Care Services reporting segment, through AmeriChoice and Ovations, also has
Medicaid and SCHIP contracts that are subject to federal regulations regarding services to be provided to Medicaid enrollees, payment for those services, and other aspects of these programs. There are many regulations surrounding Medicare and
Medicaid compliance. When we contract with the federal government, we are subject to federal laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts. In addition, the portion of Ingenix s business
that includes clinical research is subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. We are also affected by laws and regulations relating to consumer protection, anti-fraud and abuse, anti-kickbacks, anti-money laundering, securities
and antitrust.        HIPAA, GLBA and Other Privacy and Security Regulation.   The administrative simplification provisions of the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (HIPAA), apply to both the group and individual health insurance markets, including self-funded employee benefit plans. HIPAA requires guaranteed health care coverage for small employers and
certain eligible individuals. It also requires guaranteed renewability for employers and individuals and limits exclusions based on preexisting conditions. Federal regulations  
       
   9   

Table of Contents  

promulgated pursuant to HIPAA include minimum standards for electronic transactions and code sets, and for the privacy and security of protected health
information. The HIPAA privacy regulations do not preempt more stringent state laws and regulations that may also apply to us.      Federal privacy and
security requirements change frequently as a result of legislation, regulations and judicial or administrative interpretation. The U.S. Congress is currently considering new privacy and security legislation. Some of the proposed changes include: new
contracting requirements for HIPAA business associate agreements; new agreements for covered entities  logging disclosures for treatment, payment and health care operations; HIPAA business associates being subject to most parts of the HIPAA
Security Rule; and certain limitations on receiving direct or indirect remuneration for the exchange of health information. Federal consumer protection laws may also apply in some instances to privacy and security practices related to personal
identifiable information. The use and disclosure of individually identifiable health data by our businesses is also regulated in some instances by other federal laws, including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA) or state statutes implementing GLBA,
which generally require insurers to provide customers with notice regarding how their non-public personal health and financial information is used and the opportunity to  opt out  of certain disclosures before the insurer shares such
information with a third party, and which generally require safeguards for the protection of personal information. See Item 1A,  Risk Factors  for a discussion of the risks related to compliance with HIPAA, GLBA and other
privacy-related regulations.        ERISA.   The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), regulates how goods and
services are provided to or through certain types of employer-sponsored health benefit plans. ERISA is a set of laws and regulations subject to periodic interpretation by the U.S. Department of Labor as well as the federal courts. ERISA places
controls on how our business units may do business with employers who sponsor employee benefit health plans, particularly those that maintain self-funded plans. Regulations established by the U.S. Department of Labor provide additional rules for
claims payment and member appeals under health care plans governed by ERISA. Recent final and proposed regulations would require additional disclosures to employers of certain types of indirect compensation we receive. Additionally, some states
require licensure or registration of companies providing third-party claims administration services for health care plans.        FDIC.   The Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) has federal regulatory and supervisory authority over OptumHealth Bank and performs annual examinations to ensure that the bank is operating in accordance with federal safety and soundness requirements. In
addition to such annual examinations, the FDIC performs periodic examinations of the bank s compliance with applicable federal banking statutes, regulations and agency guidelines. In the event of unfavorable examination results, the bank could
be subjected to increased operational expenses, governmental oversight and monetary penalties.       State Laws and Regulation         Health Care Regulation.   Our insurance and HMO subsidiaries must be licensed by the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. All of the states in which
our subsidiaries offer insurance and HMO products regulate those products and operations. These states require periodic financial reports and establish minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. With the amendment of the Annual
Financial Reporting Model Regulation by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners to incorporate elements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we expect that these states will continue to expand the regulations of corporate governance and
internal control activities of HMOs and insurance companies.      Health plans and insurance companies are also regulated under state insurance holding company
regulations. Such regulations generally require registration with applicable state departments of insurance and the filing of reports that describe capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain intercompany transactions and general
business operations. Some state insurance holding company laws and regulations require prior regulatory approval of acquisitions and material intercompany transfers of assets, as well as transactions between the regulated companies and their parent
holding companies or affiliates. These laws may restrict the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends.         
   10   

Table of Contents  

   In addition, some of our business and related activities may be subject to other health care-related regulations and
requirements, including PPO, managed care organization (MCO), utilization review (UR) or third-party administrator-related regulations and licensure requirements. These regulations differ from state to state, but may contain network, contracting,
product and rate, and financial and reporting requirements. There are laws and regulations that set specific standards for delivery of services, payment of claims, adequacy of health care professional networks, fraud prevention, protection of
consumer health information, pricing and underwriting practices, and covered benefits and services. State health care anti-fraud and abuse prohibitions encompass a wide range of activities, including kickbacks for referral of members, billing
unnecessary medical services, and improper marketing. Our AmeriChoice and Ovations Medicaid businesses are subject to regulation by state Medicaid agencies that oversee the provision of benefits by AmeriChoice to its Medicaid and SCHIP beneficiaries
and by Ovations to its Medicaid beneficiaries. We also contract with state governmental entities and are subject to state laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of state government contracts.        Pharmacy Regulation.   Prescription Solutions  mail order pharmacies must be licensed to do business as a pharmacy in the state in which they are
located. Our mail order pharmacies must also register with the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration and individual state controlled substance authorities in order to dispense controlled substances. Many of the states where our mail order pharmacies
deliver pharmaceuticals have laws and regulations that require out-of-state mail order pharmacies to register with that state s board of pharmacy or similar regulatory body. These states generally permit the pharmacy to follow the laws of the
state in which the mail order pharmacy is located, although some states require that we also comply with certain laws in that state. Our mail order pharmacies maintain certain Medicare and state Medicaid provider numbers as pharmacies providing
services under these programs. Participation in these programs require the pharmacies to comply with the applicable Medicare and Medicaid provider rules and regulations. Other laws and regulations affecting our mail order pharmacies include federal
and state statutes and regulations govern the labeling, packaging, advertising and adulteration of prescription drugs and dispensing of controlled substances. See Item 1A,  Risk Factors  for a discussion of the risks related to our
PBM businesses.        Privacy and Security Laws.   States have adopted regulations to implement provisions of the GLBA. Like HIPAA, GLBA allows
states to adopt more stringent requirements governing privacy protection. A number of states have also adopted other laws and regulations that may affect our privacy and security practices, for example, state laws that govern the use, disclosure,
and protection of social security numbers. State and local authorities are increasingly focused on the importance of protecting individuals from identity theft, with a significant number of states enacting laws requiring businesses to notify
individuals of security breaches involving personal information. State consumer protection laws may also apply to privacy and security practices related to personal identifiable information. Additionally, different approaches to state privacy and
insurance regulation and varying enforcement philosophies in the different states may adversely affect our ability to standardize our products and services across state lines. See Item 1A,  Risk Factors  for a discussion of the risks
related to compliance with state privacy-related regulations.        UDFI.   In addition, the Utah State Department of Financial Institutions (UDFI)
has state regulatory and supervisory authority over OptumHealth Bank and in conjunction with federal regulators performs annual examinations to ensure that the bank is operating in accordance with state safety and soundness requirements. In addition
to such annual examinations, the UDFI in conjunction with federal regulators performs periodic examinations of the bank s compliance with applicable state banking statutes, regulations and agency guidelines. In the event of unfavorable
examination results, the bank could be subjected to increased operational expenses, governmental oversight and monetary penalties.        Commitments.
  In connection with the PacifiCare Health Systems, Inc. (PacifiCare) and Sierra Health Services, Inc. (Sierra) acquisitions, which closed in December 2005 and February 2008, respectively, as typically occurs in connection with comparable
sized transactions, certain of our subsidiaries entered into various commitments with state regulatory departments, principally in California and Nevada. We believe that none of these commitments will materially affect our operations.         
   11   

Table of Contents  

    Audits and Investigations       We have been and are currently involved in various governmental investigations, audits and reviews. These include routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews by CMS, state insurance and health and welfare departments,
state attorneys general, the Office of the Inspector General, the Office of Personnel Management, the Office of Civil Rights, U.S. Congressional committees, the U.S. Department of Justice, U.S. Attorneys, the SEC, the Internal Revenue Service and
other governmental authorities. Such government actions can result in assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs. See Note 15 of
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details. In addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation, audit results or sanctions could negatively affect our reputation in various markets and make it more difficult for us to sell our
products and services and retain our current business.       International Regulation       Some of our business units, including Ingenix s i3 business, have international operations. These international operations are subject to different legal and regulatory requirements in different jurisdictions,
including various tax, tariff and trade regulations, as well as employment, intellectual property, privacy, and investment rules and laws.        COMPETITION        As a diversified health and well-being services company, we operate in highly competitive markets. Our competitors
include managed health care companies, insurance companies, third-party administrators and business services outsourcing companies, health care professionals that have formed networks to directly contract with employers or with CMS, specialty
benefit providers, government entities, disease management companies, and various health information and consulting companies. For our Health Care Services businesses, competitors include Aetna Inc., Cigna Corporation, Coventry Health Care, Inc.,
Health Net, Inc., Humana Inc., Kaiser Permanente, WellPoint, Inc., numerous for-profit and not-for-profit organizations operating under licenses from the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association and other enterprises that serve more limited geographic
areas. For our Prescription Solutions businesses, competitors include Medco Health Solutions, Inc., CVS/Caremark Corporation, and Express Scripts, Inc. Our OptumHealth and Ingenix reporting segments also compete with a number of other businesses.
New entrants into the markets in which we compete, as well as consolidation within these markets, also contribute to a competitive environment. We believe the principal competitive factors that can impact our businesses relate to the sales,
marketing and pricing of our products and services; product innovation; consumer satisfaction; the level and quality of products and services; care delivery; network capabilities; market share; product distribution systems; efficiency of
administration operations; financial strength and marketplace reputation. If we fail to compete effectively to maintain or increase our market share, including maintaining or increasing enrollments in businesses providing health benefits, our
results of operations could be materially adversely affected. See Item 1A,  Risk Factors,  for additional discussion of our risks related to competition.        EMPLOYEES        At December 31, 2008, we employed approximately 75,000 individuals. We believe our employee
relations are generally positive.         
   12   

Table of Contents  

     EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT        The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of February 4, 2009, including the business experience of each executive officer during the past five years:       

Name    
      
   Age   
      
     Position     
 
    Stephen J. Hemsley   
      
  56  
      
  President and Chief Executive Officer   
 
    George L. Mikan III   
      
  37  
      
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   
 
    Gail K. Boudreaux   
      
  48  
      
  Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of UnitedHealthcare   
 
    William A. Munsell   
      
  56  
      
  Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of the Enterprise Services Group   
 
    Eric S. Rangen   
      
  52  
      
  Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer   
 
    Larry C. Renfro   
      
  55  
      
  Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of Ovations   
 
    Lori K. Sweere   
      
  50  
      
  Executive Vice President of Human Capital   
 
    Anthony Welters   
      
  53  
      
  Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of the Public and Senior Markets Group   
 
    David S. Wichmann   
      
  46  
      
  Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of UnitedHealth Group Operations   
    Our Board of Directors elects executive officers annually. Our executive officers serve until their successors are
duly elected and qualified.       Mr. Hemsley  is President and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group, has served in that capacity since
November 2006, and has been a member of the Board of Directors since February 2000. Mr. Hemsley served as President and Chief Operating Officer from 2004 to November 2006. He joined UnitedHealth Group in 1997 and held various executive
positions with the Company from 1997 to 2004.       Mr. Mikan  is Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of UnitedHealth Group and has
served in that capacity since November 2006. Mr. Mikan served as Senior Vice President of Finance of UnitedHealth Group from February 2006 to November 2006. From June 2004 to February 2006, Mr. Mikan served as Chief Financial Officer of
UnitedHealthcare and as President of UnitedHealth Networks. Mr. Mikan was Chief Financial Officer of Specialized Care Services (now OptumHealth) in 2004. Mr. Mikan joined UnitedHealth Group in 1998 and held various executive positions with
the Company from 1998 to 2004.       Ms. Boudreaux  is Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of UnitedHealthcare and has
served in that capacity since May 2008. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Ms. Boudreaux served as Executive Vice President of Health Care Services Corporation (HCSC) from December 2005 to May 2008 and as President of Blue Cross and Blue
Shield of Illinois, a division of HCSC, from 2002 to December 2005.       Mr. Munsell  is Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and
President of the Enterprise Services Group and has served in that capacity since September 2007. From December 2006 to August 2007, Mr. Munsell served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group. From November 2004 to December 2006,
Mr. Munsell served as Chief Executive Officer of Specialized Care Services (now OptumHealth). In 2004, Mr. Munsell served as the Chief Administrative Officer and Chief Operating Officer of UnitedHealthcare. Mr. Munsell joined
UnitedHealth Group in 1997 and held various executive positions with the Company from 1997 to 2004.       Mr. Rangen  is Senior Vice President and
Chief Accounting Officer of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since December 2006. From November 2006 to December 2006, Mr. Rangen was Senior Vice President  
       
   13   

Table of Contents  

of UnitedHealth Group. Mr. Rangen joined UnitedHealth Group in November 2006. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Mr. Rangen served as Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Alliant Techsystems Inc. from April 2004 to March 2006 and as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Alliant Techsystems, Inc. from 2001 to April 2004.       Mr. Renfro  is Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of Ovations and has served in that capacity since January 2009. Prior to
joining UnitedHealth Group, Mr. Renfro served as President of Fidelity Developing Businesses at Fidelity Investments and as a member of the Fidelity Executive Committee from June 2008 to January 2009. From November 2005 to May 2008, Mr. Renfro held
several senior positions at AARP Services Inc., including President and Chief Executive Officer of AARP Services Inc., Chief Operating Officer of AARP Services Inc., President and Chief Executive Officer of AARP Financial and President of the AARP
Funds. From November 2004 to October 2005, Mr. Renfro served as Managing Director of Devonshire Financial Group. Mr. Renfro served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of New River Inc. from 1998 to October 2004.       Ms. Sweere  is Executive Vice President of Human Capital of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since June 2007. Prior to joining UnitedHealth
Group, Ms. Sweere served as Executive Vice President of Human Resources of CNA Corporation from October 2004 to April 2007 and held various leadership positions with CNA Corporation from 2003 to October 2004.       Mr. Welters  is Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of the Public and Senior Market Group and has served in that capacity since
September 2007. Mr. Welters was named Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group in November 2006. From 2004 to November 2006, Mr. Welters was President and Chief Executive Officer of AmeriChoice. Mr. Welters joined UnitedHealth
Group in 2002 and held various executive positions with the Company from 2002 to 2004.       Mr. Wichmann  is Executive Vice President of
UnitedHealth Group and President of UnitedHealth Group Operations and has served in that capacity since April 2008. From December 2006 to April 2008, Mr. Wichmann served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of the
Commercial Markets Group (now UnitedHealthcare). From July 2004 to December 2006, Mr. Wichmann served as President and Chief Operating Officer of UnitedHeathcare. In 2004, Mr. Wichmann served as Chief Executive Officer of Specialized Care
Services (now OptumHealth). Mr. Wichmann joined UnitedHealth Group in 1998 and held various executive positions with the Company from 1998 to 2004.       

ITEM 1A.   
   RISK FACTORS           CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS        The statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). When used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in future filings by us with the SEC, in our news releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, and in oral statements made by
or with the approval of one of our executive officers, the words or phrases  believe,   expect,   intend,   estimate,   anticipate,   plan,  project,   should  or similar
expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are intended to take advantage of the  safe harbor  provisions of the PSLRA. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may
cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.      The following discussion contains certain
cautionary statements regarding our business that investors and others should consider. We do not undertake to address or update forward-looking statements in future filings or communications regarding our business or operating results, and do not
undertake to address how any of these factors may have caused results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications. In addition, any of the matters discussed below may have affected past, as well as
current, forward-looking statements about future results. Any or all forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K and in any other public filings or statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate  
       
   14   

Table of Contents  

assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors discussed below will be important in determining future results. By
their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. Actual future results may vary materially from
expectations expressed in this report or any of our prior communications.       If we fail to effectively estimate, price for and manage our health care
costs, the profitability of our risk-based products could decline and could materially adversely affect our future financial results.       Under our
risk-based product arrangements, we assume the risk of both medical and administrative costs for our customers in return for monthly premiums. Premium revenues from risk-based products comprise approximately 90% of our total consolidated revenues.
We generally use approximately 80% to 85% of our premium revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to these customers. The profitability of our risk-based products depends in large part on our ability to predict, price for, and
effectively manage health care costs.      We manage health care costs through underwriting criteria, product design, negotiation of favorable provider
contracts and medical management programs. Total health care costs are affected by the number of individual services rendered and the cost of each service. Our premium revenue on commercial policies is typically fixed for a 12-month period and is
generally priced one to four months before the contract commences. Our revenue on Medicare policies is based on bids submitted in June the year before the contract year. We base the premiums we charge and our Medicare bids on our estimate of future
health care costs over the fixed contract period; however, medical cost inflation, regulation and other factors may cause actual costs to exceed what was estimated and reflected in premiums or bids. These factors may include increased use of
services, increased cost of individual services, catastrophes, epidemics, the introduction of new or costly treatments and technology, new mandated benefits or other regulatory changes, insured population characteristics and seasonal changes in the
level of health care use. As a measure of the impact of medical cost on our financial results, relatively small differences between predicted and actual medical costs or utilization rates as a percentage of revenues can result in significant changes
in our financial results. For example, if medical costs increased by 1% without a proportional change in related revenues for commercial insured products, our annual net earnings for 2008 would have been reduced by approximately $200 million.
     In addition, the financial results we report for any particular period include estimates of costs that have been incurred for which claims are still
outstanding. These estimates involve an extensive degree of judgment. If these estimates prove too low, they will have a negative impact on our future results.       If we fail to comply with federal and state regulations, or fail to respond quickly and appropriately to health care reforms and frequent changes in federal and state regulations, our business, financial condition and results of
operations could be materially adversely affected.       Our business is regulated at the federal, state, local and international levels. The laws and rules
governing our business and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change. The broad latitude that is given to the agencies administering those regulations, as well as future laws and rules, could force us to change how we do
business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase our health care and administrative costs and capital requirements, and increase our liability in federal and state courts for coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other
actions. See Item 1,  Business   Government Regulation  for a discussion of various federal and state laws and regulations governing our businesses.      We must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of our products, to increase prices for certain regulated products and to complete certain acquisitions and dispositions, including integration of
certain acquisitions. Delays in obtaining approvals or our failure to obtain or maintain these approvals could reduce our revenue or increase our costs.      Legislative proposals that would reform the health care system have been advanced by Congress and state legislatures and are currently pending at the state and federal levels. These changes include policy changes that  
       
   15   

Table of Contents  

would fundamentally change the dynamics of our industry, such as having the federal or one or more state governments assume a larger role in the health care
industry or a fundamental restructuring of the Medicare or Medicaid programs. These proposals may also affect certain aspects of our business, including contracting with physicians, hospitals and/or other health care professionals; physician
reimbursement methods and payment rates; coverage determinations; mandated benefits; minimum medical expenditures; claim payments and processing; drug utilization and patient safety efforts; collection, use, disclosure, maintenance and disposal of
individually identifiable health information; personal health records; consumer-driven health plans and health savings accounts and insurance market reforms; and government-sponsored programs.      For example, the new administration and various congressional leaders have signaled their interest in reducing payments to private plans offering Medicare Advantage.
Depending on the extent and phasing of these potential reductions, the number of seniors participating in Medicare Advantage and the industry-wide earnings derived from these plans may fall. In addition, Massachusetts has enacted comprehensive
reform, including an individual health coverage mandate coupled with an employer mandate and a new state connector authority. A number of other state legislatures, including California, Colorado, New York, Ohio and Pennsylvania, have
contemplated but have not enacted significant reform of their health insurance markets. Other states are expected to consider these types of reforms as well as more modest reforms aimed at expanding Medicaid and/or SCHIP eligibility as well as
new coverage options for those not eligible for government programs. These proposals include provisions affecting both public programs and privately financed health insurance arrangements. States also are
considering proposals that would reform the underwriting and marketing practices of individual and group health insurance products by, for example, placing restrictions on rating and pricing and mandating minimum medical
benefit cost ratios. In addition, from time to time, Congress has considered various forms of managed care reform legislation which if adopted, could fundamentally alter the treatment of coverage decisions under ERISA. Additionally,
there is legislative interest in modifying ERISA s preemptive effect on state laws. If adopted, such limitations could increase our liability exposure and could permit greater state regulation of our operations.      We cannot predict if any of these initiatives will ultimately become law, or, if enacted, what their terms or the regulations promulgated pursuant to such laws will be,
but their enactment could increase our costs, expose us to expanded liability and require us to revise the ways in which we conduct business or put us at risk for loss of business. In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by
such changes even if we correctly predict their occurrence.      In addition, the health care industry is subject to negative publicity. Negative publicity may
result in increased regulation and legislative review of industry practices, which may further increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our profitability by: adversely affecting our ability to market our products and services;
requiring us to change our products and services; or increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate.      In August 2007, we entered into a
multi-state national agreement with regulatory offices in 39 states and the District of Columbia relating to the legacy UnitedHealthcare fully insured commercial business. The agreement covers several key areas of review of our business operations,
including claims payment accuracy and timeliness, appeals and grievances resolution timeliness, health care professional network/service, utilization review, explanation of benefits accuracy, and oversight and due diligence of contracted entities
and vendor performance. The agreement addressed and resolved past regulatory matters related to the areas of review prior to August 2007 and establishes a transparent framework for evaluating and regulating performance through December 2010. On a
prospective basis, the agreement is similar to a customer performance guarantee, whereby we will self report quarterly and annually our operational performance on a set of national performance standards agreed to by the participating states. We must
perform to the standards set forth in the agreement, or be subject to fines and penalties.      We are also involved in various governmental investigations,
audits and reviews. These regulatory activities include routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews by CMS, state insurance and health and  
       
   16   

Table of Contents  

welfare departments and state attorneys general, the Office of the Inspector General, the Office of Personnel Management, the Office of Civil Rights, the
U.S. Department of Justice, U.S. Attorneys, the SEC, the IRS, the U.S. Department of Labor and other governmental authorities. For example, in 2007, the California Department of Insurance examined the Company s PacifiCare health insurance plan
in California. The examination findings related to claims processing accuracy and timeliness, accurate and timely interest payments, timely implementation of provider contracts, timely, accurate provider dispute resolution, and other related
matters. To date, the California Department of Insurance has not levied a financial penalty related to its findings. The Company is working closely with the department to resolve any outstanding issues arising from the findings of its examination.
In addition, the U.S. Department of Labor is conducting an investigation of our administration of our employee benefit plans with respect to ERISA compliance. Reviews and investigations of this sort can lead to government actions, which can result
in the assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including restrictions or changes in the way we conduct business, loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs, and could have a
material adverse effect on our business and financial results.      In addition, public perception or publicity surrounding routine governmental investigations
may adversely affect our stock price, damage our reputation in various markets or make it more difficult for us to sell products and services.       Adverse
conditions in the global economy and extreme disruption of financial markets could adversely affect our revenues, sources of liquidity, investment portfolio and our results of operations.       As widely reported, worldwide financial markets have been experiencing extreme disruption, including volatility in the prices of securities and severely diminished
liquidity and availability of credit. These extreme events, along with a recession, inflation or other unfavorable changes in economic conditions, could adversely affect our business and results of operations.      For example, higher unemployment rates and significant employment layoffs and downsizings could lead to lower enrollment in our employer group plans, lower enrollment in
our non-employer individual plans and a higher number of employees opting out of our employer group plans. The adverse economic conditions could also cause employers to stop offering certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or elect to
offer this coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis as a means to reduce their operating costs. In addition, the economic downturn could negatively impact our employer group renewal prospects and our ability to increase premiums and could
result in cancellation of products and services by our customers. All of these could lead to a decrease in our membership levels and premium and fee revenues and could adversely affect our financial results. In addition, a prolonged economic
downturn could negatively impact the financial position of hospitals and other care providers and therefore could adversely affect our contracted rates with these parties and increase our medical costs.      During a prolonged economic downturn, state and federal budgets could be adversely affected, resulting in reduced reimbursements or payments in our federal and state
government health care coverage programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP. A reduction in state Medicaid reimbursement rates could be implemented retrospectively to payments already negotiated and/or received from the government and could
adversely affect our revenues and financial results. In addition, the state and federal budgetary pressures could cause the government to impose new or a higher level of taxes or assessments for our commercial programs, such as premium taxes on
health maintenance organizations and surcharges on select fee-for-service and capitated medical claims, and could adversely affect our results of operations.      The current economic crisis is causing contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace. While our largest source of funding has historically been cash flow from operations, the commercial paper markets have been a source of
liquidity for us and we continue to issue commercial paper, although at higher interest rates as a result of the diminished availability of credit. However, there can be no assurance that the commercial paper  
       
   17   

Table of Contents  

markets will continue to be a reliable source of short-term financing. If the commercial paper markets are unavailable or not cost effective, we would use
cash on hand and/or draw on our contractually committed revolving credit facilities to refinance the commercial paper when it matures. However, there can be no assurance that, under extreme market conditions, such sources would be available or
sufficient.      In addition, if the global capital markets continue to deteriorate, including if more financial institutions and companies file for bankruptcy
protection, or are taken over by governmental authorities, and if the prices of securities continue to deteriorate and experience extreme volatility, our investment portfolio may be impacted. Some of our investments could further experience
other-than-temporary declines in fair value, requiring us to record an impairment charge that could adversely impact our financial results.       Our
businesses providing PBM services are subject to federal and state regulations associated with the PBM industry and if we fail to comply with these regulations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially
adversely affected.       We provide PBM services through our Prescription Solutions and UnitedHealthcare businesses. Each business is subject to federal
and state anti-kickback and other laws that govern their relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers, customers and consumers. In addition, federal and state legislatures regularly consider new regulations for the industry that could adversely
affect current industry practices, including the receipt or required disclosure of rebates from pharmaceutical companies. See Item 1,  Business   Government Regulation  for a discussion of various federal and state laws and
regulations governing our PBM businesses.      In the event a court were to determine that one of our PBM businesses acts as a fiduciary under ERISA, we could
be subject to claims for alleged breaches of fiduciary obligations in implementation of formularies, preferred drug listings and drug management programs, contracting network practices, specialty drug distribution and other transactions. Our PBM
businesses also conduct business as mail order pharmacies, which subjects them to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. The failure to adhere to these laws and regulations could expose our PBM subsidiaries to civil and criminal
penalties.      In addition, we would be adversely affected by an inability to contract on favorable terms with pharmaceutical manufacturers and could face
potential claims in connection with purported errors by our mail order pharmacies, including in connection with the risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products. Further, our PBM businesses are
subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, which is a multifaceted security standard that includes requirements for security management, policies, procedures, network architecture, software design and other critical
protective measures to protect customer account data as mandated by the credit card brands. The failure to adhere to such standards could expose our PBM subsidiaries to liability or impact their ability to process credit card transactions.
      If we fail to compete effectively to maintain or increase our market share, including maintaining or increasing enrollments in businesses providing
health benefits, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.       Our businesses compete throughout the United States and face
competition in all of the geographic markets in which we operate. We compete with other companies on the basis of many factors, including price of benefits offered and cost and risk of alternatives, location and choice of health care providers,
quality of customer service, comprehensiveness of coverage offered, reputation for quality care, financial stability and diversity of product offerings. For our Health Care Services reporting segment, competitors include Aetna Inc., Cigna
Corporation, Coventry Health Care, Inc., Health Net, Inc., Humana Inc., Kaiser Permanente, WellPoint, Inc., numerous for-profit and not-for-profit organizations operating under licenses from the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association and other
enterprises that serve more limited geographic areas or market segments such as Medicare specialty services. For our Prescription Solutions business, competitors include Medco Health Solutions, Inc., CVS/ Caremark Corporation and Express Scripts,
Inc. Our OptumHealth and Ingenix reporting segments also compete with a number of other businesses.         
   18   

Table of Contents  

   We believe that barriers to entry in many markets are not substantial, so the addition of new competitors can occur
relatively easily, and customers enjoy significant flexibility in moving between competitors. In particular markets, competitors may have capabilities or resources that give them a competitive advantage. Greater market share, established reputation,
superior supplier or health care professional arrangements, existing business relationships, and other factors all can provide a competitive advantage to our businesses or to their competitors.      In addition, significant merger and acquisition activity has occurred in the industries in which we operate, both as to our competitors and suppliers (including
hospitals, physician groups and other care professionals) in these industries. Consolidation may make it more difficult for us to retain or increase customers, to improve the terms on which we do business with our suppliers, or to maintain or
advance profitability. If we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets, if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if we do not provide a satisfactory
level of services, if membership or demand for other services does not increase as we expect, if membership or demand for other services declines, or if we lose accounts with more profitable products while retaining or increasing membership in
accounts with less profitable products, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.       As a payer in various government
health care programs, we are exposed to additional risks associated with program funding, enrollments, payment adjustments and audits that could adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and financial results.       We participate in various federal, state and local government health care coverage programs, including as a payer in Medicare Advantage, Medicare Part D, various
Medicaid programs and SCHIP, and receive revenues from these programs. These programs generally are subject to frequent changes, including changes that may reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible, reduce the amount of reimbursement or
payment levels, or increase our administrative or health care costs under such programs. Such changes have adversely affected our financial results and willingness to participate in such programs in the past, and may do so in the future.   
  Our participation in the Medicare Advantage, Medicare Part D, and various Medicaid programs and SCHIP occurs through bids that are submitted periodically. Revenues
for these programs are dependent upon periodic funding from the federal government or applicable state governments and allocation of the funding through various payment mechanisms. Funding for these government programs is dependent upon many factors
outside of our control, including general economic conditions at the federal or applicable state level, and general political issues and priorities. A reduction or less than expected increase in government funding for these programs or change in
allocation methodologies may adversely affect our revenues and financial results.      CMS uses various payment mechanisms to allocate funding for Medicare
programs, including determining payments by considering the risk status of our Medicare members as supported by provider medical record documentation. Federal regulators audit the supporting documents and can revise payments based on the audit
findings. CMS announced in 2008 that it will perform audits of selected Medicare health plans each year to validate the coding practices of and supporting documentation maintained by care providers. These audits involve a review of medical records
maintained by providers, including those in and out of network, and may result in retrospective or prospective adjustments to payments made to health plans pursuant to CMS Medicare contracts. Certain of our plans have been selected for audit. The
first audits focused on medical records supporting risk adjustment data for 2006 that were used to determine 2007 payment amounts. We are unable to predict the outcome of the audits. However, a material adjustment could have a material effect on our
financial results.      Our ability to retain and acquire Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP enrollees is impacted by bids and plan designs submitted by us and our
competitors. Under the Medicaid Managed Care program, state Medicaid agencies are periodically required by federal law to seek bids from eligible health plans to continue their participation in the acute care Medicaid health programs. If we are not
successful in obtaining renewals of state Medicaid Managed  
       
   19   

Table of Contents  

Care contracts, we risk losing the members that were enrolled in those Medicaid plans. Under the Medicare Part D program, to qualify for automatic enrollment
of low income members, our bids must result in an enrollee premium below a threshold, which is set by the government after our bids are submitted. If the enrollee premium is not below the government threshold, we risk losing the members who were
auto-assigned to us and we will not have additional members auto-assigned to us. For example, we lost approximately 650,000 of our auto-enrolled low-income subsidy members in 2008 because our bids exceeded thresholds set by the government. In
general, our bids are based upon certain assumptions regarding enrollment, utilization, medical costs, and other factors. In the event any of these assumptions are materially incorrect or our competitors  bids and positioning are different than
anticipated, either as a result of unforeseen changes to the Medicare program or otherwise, our financial results could be materially affected.       If we
fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with physicians, hospitals, and other health care providers, our business could be adversely affected.       We contract with physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and other health care providers for competitive prices and services. Our results of operations and prospects are substantially
dependent on our continued ability to maintain these competitive prices and services. Failure to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with health care providers, whether in-network or out-of-network, could adversely affect our business
and results of operations.      In any particular market, physicians and health care providers could refuse to contract, demand higher payments, or take other
actions that could result in higher health care costs, less desirable products for customers or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. In some markets, certain health care providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital
organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions or near monopolies that could result in diminished bargaining power on our part. In addition, physician or practice management companies, which aggregate
physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, may compete directly with us. If these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive
disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas could be adversely affected.      In addition, we have capitation arrangements
with some physicians, hospitals and other health care providers. Under the typical arrangement, the health care provider receives a fixed percentage of premium to cover all or a defined portion of the medical costs provided to the capitated member.
Under some capitated arrangements, the provider may also receive additional compensation from risk sharing and other incentive arrangements. Capitation arrangements limit our exposure to the risk of increasing medical costs, but expose us to risk
related to the adequacy of the financial and medical care resources of the professional. To the extent that a capitated health care provider organization faces financial difficulties or otherwise is unable to perform its obligations under the
capitation arrangement, we may be held responsible for unpaid health care claims that should have been the responsibility of the capitated health care provider and for which we have already paid the provider under the capitation arrangement.
Further, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts can result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our
members. There can be no assurance that health care providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on
the provision of services to our members and our operations.      In addition, some providers that render services to our members do not have contracts with
us. In those cases, we do not have a pre-established understanding with the provider about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider for services rendered to our members. In some states, the amount of compensation due to these
out-of-network providers is defined by law or regulation, but in most instances it is either not defined or it is established by a standard that is not clearly translatable into dollar terms. In some instances, providers may believe that they
are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with us or try to recover from our members the difference between what we have paid them and the amount they charged us. For example,  
       
   20   

Table of Contents  

we are involved in litigation with out-of-network providers that is described in more detail in  Legal Matters  in Note 15 of Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements. Failure to maintain satisfactory relationships with these out-of-network health care providers could adversely affect our business and results of operations.       Sales of our products and services are dependent on our ability to attract, retain and provide support to a network of independent third party brokers, consultants
and agents.       Our products are sold in part through independent brokers, consultants and agents who assist in the production and servicing of
business. We typically do not have long-term contracts with our independent brokers, consultants and agents, who generally are not exclusive to us and who frequently also recommend and/or market health care products and services of our
competitors. As a result, we must compete intensely for their services and allegiance. Our sales would be adversely affected if we are unable to attract or retain independent brokers, consultants and agents or if we do not adequately provide
support, training and education to them regarding our product portfolio, which is complex, or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels.      In addition, there have been a number of investigations regarding the marketing practices of brokers and agents selling health care products and the payments they receive. These have resulted in enforcement
actions against companies in our industry and brokers and agents marketing and selling these companies  products. For example, CMS and state departments of insurance have increased their scrutiny of the marketing practices of brokers
and agents who market Medicare products. These investigations and enforcement actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans and/or changes to industry practice which could
adversely impact our ability to market our products.       If we fail to comply with restrictions on patient privacy and information security, including
taking steps to ensure that our business associates who obtain access to sensitive patient information maintain its confidentiality, our reputation and business operations could be materially adversely affected.       The collection, maintenance, use, disclosure and disposal of individually identifiable data by our businesses are regulated at the international, federal and state
levels. These laws and rules are subject to change by legislation or administrative or judicial interpretation. Various state laws address the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health data to the extent they are more restrictive than
those contained in the privacy and security provisions in the federal GLBA and in HIPAA. HIPAA also requires that we impose privacy and security requirements on our business associates (as such term is defined in the HIPAA regulations). See
Item 1,  Business   Government Regulation  for a discussion of various federal and state privacy laws and regulations governing our businesses.      Even though we provide for appropriate protections through our contracts with our business associates, we still have limited control over their actions and practices. Privacy and security requirements regarding personally identifiable
information are also imposed on us through controls with our customers. In addition, despite the security measures we have in place to ensure compliance with applicable laws and rules, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service
providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism or theft, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. Congress and many states are considering new privacy and security
requirements that would apply to our business. Compliance with new privacy and security laws, requirements, and new regulations may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes, new limitations or constraints on our business models, the
development of new administrative processes, and the effects of potential noncompliance by our business associates. They also may impose further restrictions on our collection, disclosure and use of patient identifiable data that are housed in one
or more of our administrative databases. Noncompliance with any privacy laws or any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential member information, whether by us or by one of our
vendors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of operations, including: material fines and penalties; compensatory, special, punitive, and statutory damages; consent orders regarding our privacy and security
practices; adverse actions against our licenses to do business; and injunctive relief.         
   21   

Table of Contents  

    Our relationship with AARP is important and the loss of such relationship could have an adverse effect on our business
and results of operations.       Under our agreements with AARP, we provide AARP-branded Medicare Supplement insurance, hospital indemnity insurance and
other products to AARP members and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans to AARP members and non-members. One of our agreements with AARP expands the relationship to include AARP-branded Medicare Advantage plans for AARP members and non-members.
Our agreements with AARP contain commitments regarding corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, diversity and measures intended to improve and simplify the health care experience for consumers. The AARP agreements may be terminated
early under certain circumstances, including, depending on the agreement, a material breach by either party, insolvency of either party, a material adverse change in the financial condition of the Company, material changes in the Medicare programs,
material harm to AARP caused by the Company, and by mutual agreement. The success of our AARP arrangements depends, in part, on our ability to service AARP and its members, develop additional products and services, price the products and services
competitively, meet our corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, and diversity commitments, and respond effectively to federal and state regulatory changes. The loss of our AARP relationship could have an adverse effect on our business
and results of operations.       Because of the nature of our business, we are routinely subject to various litigation actions, which, if resolved
unfavorably, could result in substantial penalties and/or monetary damages and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.       Periodically, we become a party to the types of legal actions that can affect any business, such as employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, breach of contract actions, tort claims, shareholder suits,
and intellectual property-related litigation. In addition, because of the nature of our business, we are routinely made party to a variety of legal actions related to the design and management of our service offerings. These matters include, among
others, claims related to health care benefits coverage and payment (including disputes with enrollees, customers, and contracted and non-contracted physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals), medical malpractice actions, contract
disputes and claims related to disclosure of certain business practices. We are also party to certain class action lawsuits brought by health care professional groups.      We are largely self-insured with regard to litigation risks. Although we maintain excess liability insurance with outside insurance carriers for claims in excess of our self-insurance, certain types of damages, such
as punitive damages in some circumstances, are not covered by insurance. We record liabilities for our estimates of the probable costs resulting from self-insured matters; however, it is possible that the level of actual losses may exceed the
liabilities recorded.      A description of material legal actions in which we are currently involved is included in Note 15 of Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. We cannot predict the outcome of these actions with certainty, and we are incurring expenses in resolving these matters. Therefore, these legal actions could further increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our
financial position, results of operations and cash flows.       Matters relating to or arising out of our historical stock option practices, including
regulatory inquiries, litigation matters, and potential additional cash and noncash charges could have a material adverse effect on the Company.       In
early 2006, our Board of Directors initiated an independent review of the Company s historical stock option practices from 1994 to 2005. The independent review was conducted by an independent committee comprised of three independent directors
of the Company (Independent Committee) with the assistance of independent counsel and independent accounting advisors. On October 15, 2006, we announced that the Independent Committee had  
       
   22   

Table of Contents  

completed their review of the Company s historical stock option practices and reported the findings to the non-management directors of the Company. As a
result of our historical stock option practices, we restated our previously filed financial statements, we incurred certain cash and non-cash charges, we are subject to various regulatory inquiries and litigation matters, and we may be subject to
further regulatory inquiries, litigation matters, and cash and noncash charges, the outcome of any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on us. See Note 15 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed
description of these regulatory inquiries and litigation matters.       Our investment portfolio may suffer losses which could materially adversely affect
our financial results.       Fluctuations in the fixed income or equity markets could impair our profitability and capital position. Volatility in interest
rates affects our interest income, and the market value of, our investments in fixed income debt securities of varying maturities, which comprise the majority of the fair value of our investments at December 31, 2008. In addition, defaults by
issuers, primarily from investments in liquid corporate and municipal bonds, who fail to pay or perform on their obligations, could reduce our investment income and net realized investment gains or result in net realized investment losses as we may
be required to write down the value of our investments, which would adversely affect our profitability and shareholders  equity.      We also invest a
small proportion of our investments in equity investments, which are subject to greater volatility than fixed income investments. General economic conditions, stock market conditions, and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect
the value of our equity investments and may result in investment losses.      There can be no assurance that our investments will produce total positive
returns or that we will not sell investments at prices that are less than the carrying value of these investments. Changes in the value of our investment assets, as a result of interest rate fluctuations, illiquidity or otherwise, could have a
negative effect on our shareholders  equity. In addition, if it became necessary for us to liquidate our investment portfolio on an accelerated basis, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.       If the value of our intangible assets is materially impaired, our results of operations, shareholders  equity and debt ratings could be materially adversely
affected.       Due largely to our past acquisitions, goodwill and other intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our assets. Goodwill and other
intangible assets were approximately $22.4 billion as of December 31, 2008, representing approximately 40% of our total assets. If we make additional acquisitions, it is likely that we will record additional intangible assets on our books. We
periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may no longer be recoverable, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. Any future evaluations requiring an
asset impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially affect our results of operations and shareholders  equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. A material decrease in shareholders  equity could, in
turn, negatively impact our debt ratings or potentially impact our compliance with existing debt covenants.       Large-scale medical emergencies may result
in significant health care costs and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.       Large-scale
medical emergencies can take many forms and can cause widespread illness and death. Such emergencies could materially and adversely affect the U.S. economy in general and the health care industry specifically. For example, in the event of a natural
disaster, bioterrorism attack, pandemic or other extreme events, we could face, among other things, significant health care costs and increased use of health care services. Any such disaster or similar event could have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial condition and results of operations.         
   23   

Table of Contents  

    If we fail to properly maintain the integrity or availability of our data or to strategically implement new or upgrade
or consolidate existing information systems, our business could be materially adversely affected.       Our ability to adequately price our products and
services, to provide effective service to our customers in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, and to accurately report our financial results depends on the integrity of the data in our information systems. As a result of technology initiatives,
changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions, we have been taking steps to consolidate and integrate the number of systems we operate and have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities. Our
information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and
regulatory standards, and changing customer patterns. If the information we rely upon to run our businesses were found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose
existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals, have regulatory
problems, have increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse consequences. There can be no assurance that our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities,
protecting and enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology will be successful or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. Failure to consolidate and
integrate our systems successfully could result in higher than expected costs and diversion of management s time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and operating results.       If we are not able to protect our proprietary rights to our databases and related products, our ability to market our knowledge and information-related businesses
could be hindered and our business could be adversely affected.       We rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees,
and our trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and patents to protect our proprietary rights. These legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. In addition, substantial litigation regarding
intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, and we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this industry segment grows. Such litigation and
misappropriation of our proprietary information could hinder our ability to market and sell products and services and our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected.       Our ability to obtain funds from some of our subsidiaries is restricted and if we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our operations or financial position may be
adversely affected.       Because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from some of
our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. These subsidiaries generally are regulated by states  departments of insurance. We are also required by law to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. The levels
of capitalization required depend primarily upon the volume of premium revenues generated. A significant increase in premium volume will require additional capitalization from us. In most states, we are required to seek prior approval by these state
regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from these subsidiaries that exceed specified amounts. In addition, we normally notify the state departments of insurance prior to making payments that do not require approval. An
inability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to their parent companies could impact the scale to which we could reinvest in our business through capital expenditures, business acquisitions and the repurchase of shares of our common stock
and our ability to repay our debt. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our operations or financial position may be adversely affected.         
   24   

Table of Contents  

    Any failure by us to manage and complete acquisitions and other significant transactions successfully could harm our
financial results, business and prospects.       As part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible
investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions. If we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic
objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect
on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.       Downgrades in our debt ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business,
financial condition and results of operations.       Claims paying ability, financial strength, and debt ratings by recognized rating organizations are
increasingly important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. We believe our claims paying ability and financial strength
ratings are important factors in marketing our products to certain of our customers. Our debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. Each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically and there can be no
assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. Our ratings reflect each rating agency s opinion of our financial strength, operating performance, and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders.
Downgrades in our ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.       

ITEM 1B.   
   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS         None.       

ITEM 2.   
   PROPERTIES         As of December 31, 2008, we owned and/or leased
real properties totaling approximately 15.4 million square feet to support our business operations in the United States and other countries (net of approximately 0.4 million square feet of space subleased to third parties). Of this
total, we owned approximately 1 million aggregate square feet of space and leased the remainder. Our leases expire at various dates through September 30, 2028. Our facilities are primarily located in the United States. Our various
reporting segments use these facilities for their respective business purposes, and we believe these current facilities are suitable for their respective uses and are adequate for our anticipated future needs.      During 2008, we completed a sale-leaseback transaction for six properties resulting in gross proceeds of $185 million, and pre-tax gains of $72 million that have been
deferred and will be amortized straight-line against rent expense over the term of the underlying leases of 12.5 years.       

ITEM 3.   
   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS         See Note 15 of Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements in this Form 10-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.       

ITEM 4.   
   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS         None.
        
   25   

Table of Contents  

      PART II        

ITEM 5.   
   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES           MARKET PRICES        Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock
Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol UNH. On February 4, 2009, there were 14,183 registered holders of record of our common stock. The per share high and low common stock sales prices reported by the NYSE were as follows:       
      DIVIDEND POLICY        Our Board of Directors established our dividend policy in August 1990. Pursuant to our dividend policy, our Board of Directors reviews our consolidated financial statements following the end of each fiscal year and decides whether to
declare a dividend on the outstanding shares of common stock. On February 3, 2009, our Board of Directors approved an annual dividend of $0.03 per share, which will be paid on April 16, 2009 to shareholders of record on April 2, 2009.
Shareholders of record on April 2, 2008 received an annual dividend for 2008 of $0.03 per share and shareholders of record on April 2, 2007 received an annual dividend for 2007 of $0.03 per share.        ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES         Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities (a)        Fourth Quarter 2008        

(a)  
  In November 1997, our Board of Directors adopted a share repurchase program, which the Board evaluates periodically. On October 30, 2007, the Board renewed and increased our
share repurchase program, and authorized us to repurchase up to 210 million shares of our common stock at prevailing market prices. There is no established expiration date for the program.           
   26   

Table of Contents  

(b)  
  Represents 3,317,220 shares of our common stock repurchased during the period, and 2,925 shares of our common stock withheld by us, as permitted by the applicable equity award
certificates, to satisfy tax withholding obligations upon vesting of shares of restricted stock.         

(c)  
  Represents 2,921,480 shares of our common stock repurchased during the period, and 75,278 shares of our common stock withheld by us, as permitted by the applicable equity award
certificates, to satisfy tax withholding obligations upon vesting of shares of restricted stock.          PERFORMANCE GRAPHS
       The following two performance graphs compare the Company s total return to shareholders with indexes of other specified companies and the
S P 500 Index. The first graph compares the cumulative five-year total return to shareholders on UnitedHealth Group s common stock relative to the cumulative total returns of the S P 500 index and a customized peer group (the
  Fortune 50  Group ), an index of certain  Fortune 50  companies for the five-year period ended December 31, 2008. The second graph compares our cumulative total return to shareholders with the S P 500 Index and an
index of a group of peer companies selected by us for the five-year period ended December 31, 2008. The Company is not included in either the  Fortune 50  Group index in the first graph or the peer group index in the second graph. In
calculating the cumulative total shareholder return of the indexes, the shareholder returns of the  Fortune 50  Group companies in the first graph and the peer group companies in the second graph are weighted according to the stock market
capitalizations of the companies at January 1 of each year. The comparisons assume the investment of $100 on December 31, 2003 in Company common stock and in each index, and that dividends were reinvested when paid.         
   27   

Table of Contents  

    Fortune 50 Group       The
 Fortune 50  Group consists of the following companies: American International Group, Inc., Berkshire Hathaway Inc., Cardinal Health, Inc., Citigroup Inc., General Electric Company, International Business Machines Corporation, and
Johnson   Johnson. Although there are differences in terms of size and industry, like UnitedHealth Group, all of these companies are large multi-segment companies using a well-defined operating model in one or more broad sectors of the
economy.     

The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price
performance.          
   28   

Table of Contents  

    Peer Group       The
companies included in our peer group are Aetna Inc., Cigna Corporation, Coventry Health Care, Inc., Humana Inc. and WellPoint, Inc. We believe that this peer group reflects our peers in the health care industry.     

The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price
performance.          
   29   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 6.   
   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA           FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
        
    Financial Highlights should be read with the accompanying Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations and Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       

(a)  
  On January 1, 2006, we began serving as a plan sponsor offering Medicare Part D drug insurance coverage under a contract with CMS. Total revenues generated under this program
were $4.6 billion, $5.9 billion and $5.7 billion for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. See Note 2 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of this program.

(b)  
  We acquired Unison Health Plans in May 2008 for total consideration of approximately $930 million, Sierra Health Services, Inc. in February 2008 for total consideration of
approximately $2.6 billion, Fiserv Health, Inc. in January 2008 for total consideration of approximately $740 million, PacifiCare Health Systems, Inc. in December 2005 for total consideration of approximately $8.8 billion, Oxford Health Plans, Inc.
in July 2004 for total consideration of approximately $5.0 billion and Mid-Atlantic Medical Services, Inc. in February 2004 for total consideration of approximately $2.7 billion. The results of operations and financial condition of the acquisitions
discussed above have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the respective acquisition dates.           
   30   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS         The following discussion should be read together with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements thereto. Readers should be cautioned that the statements,
estimates, projections or outlook contained in this report, including discussions regarding financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and uncertainties contained in this Item 7, may constitute forward-looking statements within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, or PSLRA. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking
statements. A description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in Item 1A,  Risk Factors.         BUSINESS OVERVIEW   
     UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company, serving more than 70 million Americans. Our focus is on enhancing the performance of the
health system and improving the overall health and well-being of the people we serve and their communities. We work with health care professionals and other key partners to expand access to high quality health care. We help people get the care they
need at an affordable cost, support the physician/patient relationship, and empower people with the information, guidance and tools they need to make personal health choices and decisions.      Through our diversified family of businesses, we leverage core competencies in advanced technology-based transactional capabilities; health care data, knowledge and
information; and health care resource organization and care facilitation to make health care work better. We provide individuals with access to quality, cost-effective health care services and resources. We provide employers and consumers with
excellent value, service and support, and we deliver value to our shareholders by executing a business strategy founded upon a commitment to balanced growth, profitability and capital discipline.        BUSINESS TRENDS        Our businesses participate in the U.S. health
economy, which comprises approximately 16% of gross domestic product and which has grown consistently for many years. Management expects overall spending on health care in the U.S. to continue to rise in the future, based on inflation, demographic
trends in the U.S. population and national interest in health and well-being. The rate of growth may be impacted by a variety of factors, including macro-economic conditions and proposed health care reforms, which could also impact our results of
operations.       Adverse Economic Conditions       The current
U.S. recessionary economic environment has impacted demand for certain of our products and services. For example, decreases in employment have reduced the number of workers and dependants offered health care benefits by our employer customers and
will pressure top line growth for our UnitedHealthcare business. In contrast, our AmeriChoice business has seen increased participation in its state Medicaid offerings as employment rates fall. If the recessionary economic environment continues for
a prolonged period, federal and state governments may decrease funding for various health care government programs in which we participate and/or impose new or higher levels of taxes or assessments. In total, management believes that economic
recessions will slow our revenue growth rate and could impact our operating profitability. Management also believes that government funding pressure, coupled with recessionary economic conditions, will impact the financial positions of hospitals,
physicians and other care providers and could therefore increase medical cost trends experienced by our businesses. For additional discussions regarding how a prolonged economic downturn could affect our business, see Item 1A,  Risk
Factors.        Proposed Federal Economic Stimulus Package       In the short term, our businesses may benefit if proposed elements of the federal economic stimulus package responding to the current recession are signed into law. These include expansion of funding to state programs,  
       
   31   

Table of Contents  

which could mitigate funding pressure for AmeriChoice Medicaid offerings at the state level, expansion of coverage for recently unemployed workers through
their former employers  plans, which could enhance participation in UnitedHealthcare benefit programs, and funding for health care information technology, which could expand market opportunities for Ingenix.       Proposed Health Care Reforms       There is regular dialogue about health
care reforms at both state and national levels, due to the size of and national interest in the health economy. Examples of these health care reform proposals include policy changes that would change the dynamics of the health care industry, such as
having the federal or one or more state governments assume a larger role in the health care system or a fundamental restructuring of the Medicare or Medicaid programs.      The new administration and various congressional leaders have signaled their interest in reducing payments to private plans offering Medicare Advantage. Depending on the extent and phasing of these potential
reductions, management believes that the number of seniors participating in Medicare Advantage and the industry-wide earnings derived from these plans may fall. However, if payment rates do come down, management believes that there are a number of
adjustments we can make to our operations annually, which may partially offset any earnings impact. For example, we can adjust members  benefits, we can decide on a county-by-county basis which geographies to participate in, and we can seek to
intensify our medical and operating cost management. Any payment reductions may be phased in over a number of years. If industry-wide Medicare Advantage membership reduces, there is likely to be increased demand for Medicare Supplemental insurance
and Part D prescription drug coverage, and in both categories Ovations is also a market leader.      We operate a diversified set of health care focused
businesses; this business model has been intentionally designed to address a multitude of market sectors. Therefore, we could see simultaneous increases and decreases in demand for various of our products and services, depending on the scope, shape
and timing of health care reforms. It is difficult to predict the outcome of reform discussions with precision over the mid- to long-term time horizon. For additional discussions regarding our risks related to health care reforms, see Item 1A,
 Risk Factors.         2008 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE SUMMARY        We generated net earnings of $3.0 billion, representing a decrease of 36% compared to 2007. Other financial performance measures include:       

32   

Table of Contents  

     RESULTS SUMMARY        The following summarizes the consolidated financial results for the years ended December 31:       
      ACQUISITIONS          Unison Health Plans.   On May 30, 2008, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Unison Health Plans (Unison) for approximately $930 million in cash. Unison provides government-sponsored health plan coverage to people
in Pennsylvania, Ohio, Tennessee, Delaware, South Carolina and Washington, D.C. through a network of independent health care professionals. This acquisition strengthened our resources and capabilities in these areas. The results of operations and
financial condition of Unison have been included in our consolidated results and the results of our Health Care Services reporting segment since the acquisition date.        Sierra Health Services, Inc.   On February 25, 2008, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Sierra Health Services, Inc. (Sierra), a diversified health care services company based in Las Vegas,
Nevada, for approximately $2.6 billion in cash, representing a price of $43.50 per share of Sierra common stock. This acquisition strengthened our position in the southwest region of the United States. The U.S. Department of Justice approved the
acquisition conditioned upon the divestiture of our individual SecureHorizons Medicare Advantage HMO plans in Clark and Nye Counties, Nevada, which represented approximately 30,000 members. The divestiture was completed on April 30, 2008. We
received proceeds of $185 million for this transaction which were recorded as a reduction to Operating Costs. Group SecureHorizons Medicare Advantage plans offered through commercial  
       
   33   

Table of Contents  

contracts were excluded from the divestiture. Also, we retained Sierra s Medicare Advantage HMO plans in Nevada. The results of operations and financial
condition of Sierra have been included in our consolidated results and the results of the Health Care Services, OptumHealth and Prescription Solutions reporting segments since the acquisition date.        Fiserv Health, Inc.   On January 10, 2008, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Fiserv Health, Inc. (Fiserv Health), a subsidiary of Fiserv,
Inc., for approximately $740 million in cash. Fiserv Health is a leading administrator of medical benefits and also provides care facilitation services, specialty health solutions and pharmacy benefit management (PBM) services. This transaction
allows us to expand the capacity of our existing benefits administration businesses and enables existing and new customers to leverage our full range of assets, including ancillary services, our national network and technology tools.      The results of operations and financial condition of Fiserv Health have been included in our consolidated results and the results of the Health Care Services,
OptumHealth, Ingenix and Prescription Solutions reporting segments since the acquisition date.        2008 RESULTS COMPARED TO 2007 RESULTS
        Consolidated Financial Results         Revenues
       Revenues consist of premium revenues from risk-based products; service revenues, which primarily include fees for management, administrative and
consulting services; product revenues; and investment and other income.      Premium revenues are primarily derived from risk-based health insurance
arrangements in which the premium is fixed, typically for a one-year period, and we assume the economic risk of funding our customers  health care benefits and related administrative costs. Service revenues consist primarily of fees derived
from services performed for customers that self-insure the medical costs of their employees and their dependants. For both premium risk-based and fee-based customer arrangements, we provide coordination and facilitation of medical services;
transaction processing; health care professional services; and access to contracted networks of physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals. Through our Prescription Solutions PBM business, revenues are derived from both products sold
and administrative services. Product revenues also include sales of Ingenix publishing and software products.      Consolidated revenues for 2008 increased
from 2007 primarily due to the increase in premium revenue in the Health Care Services reporting segment. The following is a discussion of consolidated revenues for each of our revenue components.        Premium Revenues.   The premium revenue growth generated by our Health Care Services reporting segment was the primary driver in the consolidated premium
revenues increase. This increase was due to the growth in individuals served by our Public and Senior Markets Group, premium rate increases for medical cost inflation and acquisitions completed in 2008, partially offset by a decline in individuals
served through both UnitedHealthcare risk-based products and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans.        Service Revenues.   The increase in
service revenues for 2008 was driven by an increased number of individuals served by fee-based product arrangements in the Health Care Services reporting segment, primarily due to the Fiserv Health acquisition. In addition, our Ingenix reporting
segment generated service revenue growth from its health intelligence and contract research businesses as well as from business acquisitions.        Product Revenues.   Product revenues for 2008 increased due to increased prescription volume at our Prescription Solutions reporting segment, primarily related to the Fiserv Health acquisition.         
   34   

Table of Contents  

     Investment and Other Income.   The decrease in investment and other income in 2008 was primarily due to lower
investment yields primarily as a result of the decrease in interest rates on our cash equivalents, decreased average investment balances related to lower operating cash flows, decreased deposits held for certain government-sponsored programs and
increased other-than-temporary impairment charges related to the disruption in the financial markets.        Medical Costs        Medical costs for 2008 increased primarily due to medical cost inflation, acquisitions completed in 2008 and growth in Ovations Medicare Advantage and Medicare Supplement
products, partially offset by a decrease in the number of individuals served through both UnitedHealthcare risk-based products and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans.      The medical care ratio, calculated as medical costs as a percentage of premium revenues, reflects the combination of pricing, benefit designs, consumer health care utilization and comprehensive care facilitation
efforts. Our consolidated medical care ratio increase was primarily driven by premium rates advancing more slowly than medical costs in 2008 for certain risk-based products in the commercial, senior and behavioral care markets.      For each period, our operating results include the effects of revisions in medical cost estimates related to all prior periods. Changes in medical cost estimates related
to prior periods, resulting from more complete claim information identified in the current period, are included in total medical costs reported for the current period. Medical costs for 2008 included approximately $230 million of net favorable
medical cost development related to prior fiscal years. Medical costs for 2007 included approximately $420 million of net favorable medical cost development related to prior fiscal years.        Operating Costs        The operating cost ratio, calculated as
operating costs as a percentage of total revenues, increased in 2008 primarily due to certain expenses as discussed below, acquisitions completed in 2008, costs for anticipated revenue growth that did not fully materialize and a change in business
mix towards service revenues from fee-based businesses.      Operating costs for 2008 include $882 million for the proposed settlements of two class action
lawsuits related to our historical stock option practices and related legal costs, net of expected insurance proceeds, and $350 million for the settlement of class action litigation related to reimbursement for out-of-network medical services,
partially offset by a $185 million reduction in expenses for proceeds from the sale of certain assets and membership of our individual Medicare Advantage HMO plans in Clark and Nye Counties, Nevada relating to the Sierra acquisition. These amounts
have been recorded in the corporate segment. For a discussion of the proposed settlements, see Note 15 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      Operating costs for 2007 include $176 million of expenses recorded in the first quarter of 2007 related to application of deferred compensation rules under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (Section 409A) to our historical
stock option practices. The $176 million Section 409A charge includes $87 million of expenses for the payment of certain optionholders  tax obligations for stock options exercised in 2006 and early 2007 and $89 million of expenses for the
modification related to increasing the exercise price of unexercised stock options granted to nonexecutive officer employees and the related cash payments. These amounts have been recorded in the corporate segment. For an expanded discussion of our
Section 409A charges, see Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   35   

Table of Contents  

     Cost of Products Sold        Cost of products sold increased due to increased prescription volume at our Prescription Solutions reporting segment, primarily related to the Fiserv Health acquisition.        Depreciation and Amortization        The increase in depreciation and amortization was primarily related to higher
levels of computer equipment and capitalized software as a result of technology development and enhancements, as well as additional depreciation and amortization related to recent business acquisitions.        Interest Expense        Interest expense increased due to an
increase in our debt outstanding, which was partially offset by lower market interest rates on our floating-rate debt.        Income Taxes
       The decrease in our effective income tax rate was primarily due to lower earnings resulting in an increased proportion of tax-free investment
income to total earnings.       Reporting Segments       We have
four reporting segments:       

Health Care Services, which includes UnitedHealthcare, Ovations and AmeriChoice;          

OptumHealth;          

Ingenix; and          

Prescription Solutions.         Transactions between
reporting segments principally consist of sales of pharmacy benefit products and services to Health Care Services customers by Prescription Solutions, certain product offerings sold to Health Care Services customers by OptumHealth, and medical
benefits cost, quality and utilization data and predictive modeling sold to Health Care Services by Ingenix. These transactions are recorded at management s estimate of fair value. Intersegment transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
        
   36   

Table of Contents  

   The following summarizes the operating results of our reporting segments for the years ended December 31:
      
        nm = not meaningful        Health Care Services        The revenue growth in Health Care Services for 2008 was primarily due to growth in the number of individuals served by our Public and Senior Markets Group, premium rate increases for medical cost inflation and the 2008 acquisitions of
Sierra, Fiserv Health, and Unison, partially offset by an organic decline in individuals served through commercial risk-based products and Medicare Part D products and a decrease in investment income. UnitedHealthcare revenues of $41.8 billion in
2008 increased over the comparable 2007 period by $1.6 billion, or 4%. The UnitedHealthcare increase was primarily driven by the same factors as discussed for Health Care Services in 2008. Ovations revenues of $28.1 billion in 2008 increased over
the comparable 2007 period by $1.6 billion, or 6%. The increase was primarily due to an increase in individuals served with the standardized Medicare Supplement and Medicare Advantage products gained through both organic growth and the Sierra
acquisition and premium rate increases, which were partially offset by a net organic decrease of 675,000 stand-alone Medicare Part D members primarily due to the reassignment by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) of certain
dual-eligible low income beneficiaries based on annual price bids. AmeriChoice generated revenues of $6.0 billion in 2008, an increase of $1.5 billion, or 34%, over the comparable 2007 period, primarily due to an increase in the number of
individuals served by Medicaid plans, premium rate increases and the acquisition of Unison in the second quarter of 2008.      The decrease in Health Care
Services earnings from operations was primarily due to pressure on enrollment and gross margins in the UnitedHealthcare risk-based business and pressure on gross margins in Medicare Part D  
       
   37   

Table of Contents  

prescription drug plans, partially offset by acquisitions. The UnitedHealthcare medical care ratio increased to 83.5% in 2008 from 82.6% in 2007. This
increase was primarily driven by the effects of a competitive pricing environment where price increases, net of customer benefit package changes, did not fully match the rise in medical costs, and an increased mix of national account pharmaceutical
benefit business, which typically carries a higher medical care ratio. Health Care Services  operating margin was 6.7% for the year ended December 31, 2008, a decrease from 9.3% in 2007 primarily driven by the factors discussed above.
     The following summarizes the number of individuals served, by major market segment and funding arrangement, at December 31:       
    The number of individuals served with commercial products increased due to acquisitions, which included the
addition of 1,315,000 fee-based members from Fiserv Health and the addition of 310,000 risk-based individuals gained through the Sierra acquisition. These additions were partially offset by a net decline in individuals served with commercial
products of 805,000, or 3%, from December 31, 2007, primarily due to a decline in individuals served with commercial risk-based products and the impact of a competitive commercial risk-based pricing environment. The number of individuals served
by Medicare Advantage products at December 31, 2008 increased through the addition of 60,000 seniors from our acquisition of Sierra and organic growth of 95,000 seniors, partially offset by the divestiture of 30,000 individuals in Nevada
related to the Sierra acquisition. Medicaid enrollment grew due to the addition of 320,000 and 60,000 individuals from our Unison and Sierra acquisitions, respectively, and strong organic growth of 425,000 individuals.        OptumHealth        Increased revenues in OptumHealth were driven by
rate increases for medical cost inflation and an increased number of consumers served by this segment. OptumHealth provided services to approximately 60 million consumers at December 31, 2008, an increase of approximately 1 million
individuals year-over-year.      Earnings from operations and operating margin decreased due to the increased costs for risk-based behavioral and specialty
benefits businesses and the mix of continued growth in lower margin business.        Ingenix        The improvement in Ingenix revenues was due to continued growth in its health intelligence and contract research businesses as well as from business acquisitions. The
decrease in earnings from operations and operating margin was primarily due to excess staffing costs during 2008 for certain research projects which were cancelled, as well as lower demand for certain consulting services due to the current economic
environment.        Prescription Solutions        The
decreased Prescription Solutions revenues were primarily due to the reduction in the number of individuals served related to the reassignment of dual-eligible beneficiaries described above through Medicare Part D  
       
   38   

Table of Contents  

prescription drug plans by our Ovations business, which is the largest customer of this reporting segment, and a shift from name brand pharmaceuticals
towards generic utilization, partially offset by revenues related to the Fiserv Health acquisition and growth in business with unaffiliated clients. Intersegment revenues eliminated in consolidation were $11.0 billion and $12.4 billion for 2008 and
2007, respectively.      Prescription Solutions earnings from operations increased primarily due to the Fiserv Health acquisition, gains in mail service drug
fulfillment, and a continuing favorable mix shift to generic pharmaceuticals.        2007 RESULTS COMPARED TO 2006 RESULTS         Consolidated Financial Results         Revenues        Consolidated revenues increased in 2007 primarily due to rate increases on premium-based and fee-based services and growth in the total number of individuals served by
Health Care Services.        Premium Revenues.   Consolidated premium revenues increased in 2007 primarily due to premium rate increases, partially
offset by a decrease in the number of individuals served by our commercial risk-based products.      Premium revenues for UnitedHealthcare in 2007 totaled
$36.2 billion, an increase of $623 million, or 2%, over 2006. This increase was primarily due to average net premium rate increases of 7% to 8% on UnitedHealthcare s renewing commercial risk-based products and due to premiums from businesses
acquired since the beginning of 2006. This was partially offset by a 4% decrease in the number of individuals served by commercial risk-based products in 2007 primarily due to our internal pricing decisions in a competitive commercial risk-based
pricing environment and the conversion of certain groups to commercial fee-based products. Ovations premium revenues in 2007 totaled $26.0 billion, an increase of $1.7 billion, or 7%, over 2006. This increase was driven primarily by an increase in
individuals served by standardized Medicare Supplement and Evercare products, and rate increases on Medicare Advantage products as well as continued growth in our Medicare Part D program. AmeriChoice premium revenues increased by $732 million, or
20%, over 2006 primarily due to an increase in the number of individuals served by Medicaid products as well as rate increases. The remaining premium revenue increase resulted primarily from membership growth and rate increases at OptumHealth, which
contributed a premium revenue increase of 11% over 2006.        Service Revenues.   The 2007 increase in consolidated service revenues was driven
primarily by a 38% increase in Ingenix service revenues due to new business growth in the health information and contract research businesses and from businesses acquired since the beginning of 2006. In addition, UnitedHealthcare service revenues
increased due to a 3% increase in the number of individuals served under commercial fee-based arrangements during 2007, as well as annual rate increases.        Product Revenues.   The 2007 increase in consolidated product revenues was driven by pharmacy sales growth at Prescription Solutions primarily due to providing prescription drug benefit services to an additional four million
Ovations Medicare Advantage and Part D members.        Investment and Other Income.   Interest income increased by $239 million in 2007, driven by
increased levels of cash and fixed-income investments, due in part to deposits held for certain government-sponsored programs during 2007 and the lack of share repurchase activity in the first two and one half months of 2007. Net realized gains on
sales of investments were $38 million in 2007 and $4 million in 2006.        Medical Costs        The consolidated medical care ratio decreased primarily due to a decrease in the medical care ratio relating to Ovations which was partially offset by an increase in the
commercial medical care ratio resulting from our  
       
   39   

Table of Contents  

internal pricing decisions in a competitive commercial risk-based pricing environment, as well as a shift from favorable medical cost development for
UnitedHealthcare during 2006 to unfavorable medical cost development during 2007.      Medical costs for 2007 included approximately $420 million of favorable
medical cost development related to prior fiscal years. Medical costs for 2006 included approximately $430 million of favorable medical cost development related to prior fiscal years.      Medical costs for 2007 increased primarily due to an annual medical cost trend of 7% to 8% on commercial risk-based business due to medical cost inflation and increased utilization, as well as growth in Ovations
Medicare programs, partially offset by a decrease in the number of individuals served by commercial risk-based products.        Operating Costs   
     The operating cost ratio for 2007 was consistent with 2006. The operating cost ratio reflected productivity gains from technology deployment and other cost
management initiatives, offset by the effect of business mix change as fee-based businesses such as Ingenix increase in size and impact, as well as increased investment in technology, service and product enhancements; incremental marketing and
advertising costs for Medicare Advantage products; and expenses in the first quarter of 2007 associated with the application of deferred compensation rules under Section 409A to our historical stock option practices, as described in  2008
Results Compared to 2007 Results  above.      The increase in operating costs in 2007 was primarily due to general operating cost inflation and was also
impacted by the items discussed above.        Cost of Products Sold        Cost of products sold increased in 2007 primarily due to costs associated with increased pharmacy sales at Prescription Solutions as a result of providing prescription drug benefit services to an additional four
million Ovations Medicare Advantage and Part D members in 2007.        Depreciation and Amortization        The increase in depreciation and amortization in 2007 was primarily related to higher levels of computer equipment and capitalized software as a result of technology
enhancements, business growth and businesses acquired since the beginning of 2006, as well as separately identifiable intangible assets acquired in business acquisitions since the beginning of 2006.       Reporting Segments         Health Care Services        UnitedHealthcare revenues of $40.3 billion in 2007 increased by $821 million, or 2%, over 2006. This increase was driven mainly by average net premium rate increases of
7% to 8% on UnitedHealthcare s renewing commercial risk-based products, an increase in the number of individuals served by commercial fee-based products and businesses acquired since the beginning of 2006. This was partially offset by a 4%
decrease in the number of individuals served by commercial risk-based products in 2007 primarily due to our internal pricing decisions in a competitive commercial risk-based pricing environment and the conversion of certain groups to commercial
fee-based products. Ovations revenues of $26.5 billion in 2007 increased by approximately $1.8 billion, or 7%, over 2006. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in individuals served by standardized Medicare supplement and Evercare
products, and rate increases on Medicare Advantage products as well as continued growth in our Medicare Part D program. The remaining Health Care Services revenue increase  
       
   40   

Table of Contents  

resulted from an increase in AmeriChoice revenues of $750 million, or 20%, over 2006 primarily due to an increase in the number of individuals served by
Medicaid products as well as rate increases.      The increase in Health Care Services earnings from operations in 2007 was principally driven by a decrease in
the medical care ratio for Ovations primarily due to favorable medical cost trends and an increase in the number of individuals served by certain Medicare products and related rate increases discussed above, partially offset by a decrease in
individuals served by commercial risk-based products and an increase in the related medical care ratio. The UnitedHealthcare medical care ratio increased to 82.6% in 2007 from 80.5% in 2006. This increase was mainly due to our internal pricing
decisions in a competitive commercial risk-based pricing environment as well as a shift from favorable medical cost development for UnitedHealthcare during 2006 to unfavorable medical cost development during 2007, which was partially driven by costs
from higher benefit utilization in December 2006 primarily relating to high-deductible risk-based products. The Health Care Services operating margin for 2007 was 9.3%, an increase from 8.6% in 2006, which reflected productivity gains from
technology deployment and disciplined operating cost management as well as the factors discussed above.      The increase in the number of individuals served
with commercial fee-based products as of December 31, 2007 was driven by new customer relationships and customers converting from risk-based products to fee-based products, partially offset by employment attrition at continuing customers. The
number of individuals served with commercial risk-based products decreased primarily due to a competitive pricing environment and the conversion of individuals to fee-based products.      The number of individuals served by Medicare Advantage products as of December 31, 2007 decreased primarily due to a decline in participation in private-fee-for-service offerings, while individuals served by
standardized Medicare supplement products increased due to new customer relationships. Medicaid enrollment increased in 2007 primarily due to new customer gains, including 180,000 individuals served under the TennCare program in Tennessee.
       OptumHealth        The OptumHealth revenues increase
was principally driven by an increase in the number of individuals served by several of its specialty benefit businesses and rate increases related to these businesses.      OptumHealth earnings from operations increased in 2007 primarily due to the membership growth and rate increases. The OptumHealth operating margin declined from 18.6% in 2006 to 18.2% in 2007 due to a continued
business mix shift toward higher revenue, lower margin products, partially offset by effective operating cost management.        Ingenix
       The Ingenix revenues increase in 2007 was primarily driven by new business growth in the health information and contract research businesses as
well as from businesses acquired since the beginning of 2006.      The increase in earnings from operations was primarily due to growth in the health
information and contract research businesses, businesses acquired since the beginning of 2006 and effective operating cost management. The operating margin was 20.4% in 2007, up from 18.4% in 2006. This increase in operating margin was largely
driven by business growth and operating cost management described above.        Prescription Solutions        The Prescription Solutions revenues increase in 2007 was primarily driven by providing prescription drug benefit services to an additional four million Ovations Medicare
Advantage and stand-alone Part D members.  
       
   41   

Table of Contents  

Intersegment revenues were eliminated in consolidation and amounted to $12.4 billion and $3.4 billion for 2007 and 2006, respectively.      Prescription Solutions earnings from operations increased largely due to the expansion of services to Medicare Part D members discussed above. The operating margin was
2.0% in 2007, a decrease from 3.4% in 2006. The decrease in operating margin reflected the comparatively lower margin earned in the high volume Ovations Medicare Part D prescription drug service contracts.        LIQUIDITY, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND CAPITAL RESOURCES         Liquidity and Financial Condition       We manage our cash, investments and capital structure to meet the short- and long-term obligations of our
business while maintaining liquidity and financial flexibility. We forecast, analyze and monitor our cash flows to enable prudent investment management and financing within the confines of our financial strategy.      Our regulated subsidiaries generate significant cash flows from operations. A majority of the assets held by our regulated subsidiaries are in the form of cash, cash
equivalents and investments. After considering expected cash flows from operating activities, we generally invest cash of regulated subsidiaries that exceeds our expected short-term obligations in longer term, investment-grade, marketable debt
securities to improve our overall investment return. These investments are made pursuant to our Board of Directors  approved investment policy, which generally governs return objectives, regulatory limitations, tax implications and risk
tolerances, which focuses on preservation of capital, diversification and duration. Cash in excess of the capital needs of our regulated entities is paid to their non-regulated parent companies, typically in the form of dividends, for general
corporate use, when and as permitted by applicable regulations.      Our non-regulated businesses also generate significant cash flows from operations for
general corporate use. Cash flows generated by these entities, combined with dividends from our regulated entities and financing through the issuance of commercial paper and long-term debt, as well as the availability of committed credit facilities,
further strengthen our operating and financial flexibility. We generally use these cash flows to reinvest in our businesses by making capital expenditures, expanding our services through business acquisitions and repurchasing shares of our common
stock, depending on market conditions.      Cash flows generated from operating activities, our primary source of liquidity, are principally from net earnings,
prior to depreciation and amortization and other non-cash expenses. As a result, any future decline in our profitability may have a negative impact on our liquidity. The level of profitability of our risk-based business depends in large part on our
ability to accurately predict and price for health care and operating cost increases. This risk is partially mitigated by the diversity of our other businesses, the geographic and customer diversity of our risk-based business and our disciplined
underwriting and pricing processes, which seek to match premium rate increases with future health care costs.         
   42   

Table of Contents  

   A summary of our major sources and uses of cash is reflected in the table below.   
    Net cash flows from operating activities decreased $1.6 billion in 2008, or 28%, primarily due to the decrease in
net earnings of $1.7 billion which included payments of $573 million, net of taxes, for the settlement of two class action lawsuits related to our historical stock option practices. For detail on these settlements, see Note 15 of Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.      As of December 31, 2008, our cash, cash equivalent and available-for-sale investment balances of $21.4 billion
included $7.4 billion of cash and cash equivalents, $13.5 billion of debt securities and $477 million of equity securities and venture capital funds. Given the significant portion of our portfolio held in cash equivalents, we do not anticipate
fluctuations in the aggregate fair value of our financial assets to have a material impact on our liquidity. The use of different market assumptions or valuation methodologies, primarily used in valuing our Level 3 equity securities, may have an
effect on the estimated fair value amounts of our investments. Due to the subjective nature of these assumptions, the estimates may not be indicative of the actual exit price if the investment was sold at the measurement date. Other sources of
liquidity, primarily from operating cash flows, reduce the need to sell investments in adverse markets. See Note 5 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail of our fair value measurements.      Our investment portfolio has a relatively short average duration and a weighted average credit rating of  AA  as of December 31, 2008. Included in the
debt securities balance is $3.3 billion of state and municipal obligations that are guaranteed by third parties. The securities are guaranteed by a number of different guarantors, and we do not have any significant exposure to any single
guarantor (neither indirect through the guarantees, nor direct through investment in the guarantor). Further, due to the high underlying credit rating of the issuers, the weighted average credit rating of these securities both with and without the
guarantee is  AA  as of December 31, 2008 for the securities for which such information is available.        Commercial Paper.
  Commercial paper consisted of senior unsecured debt sold on a discount basis with maturities up to 270 days. As of December 31, 2008, we had $101 million of outstanding commercial paper with interest rates ranging from 5.1% to 7.1%.
This range in rates reflects increases in the market rates for Tier-2 credit-rated commercial paper.        Share Repurchases.   Under our Board of
Directors  authorization, we maintain a common share repurchase program. Repurchases may be made from time to time at prevailing prices. During 2008, we repurchased 72 million shares at an average price of approximately $37 per share and
an aggregate cost of approximately $2.7 billion. As of December 31, 2008, we had Board of Directors  authorization to purchase up to an additional 103 million shares of our common stock.         
   43   

Table of Contents  

    Capital Resources       As
of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, we had commercial paper and long-term debt outstanding of $12.8 billion and $11.0 billion, respectively.      The availability of financing in the form of debt or equity is influenced by many factors, including our profitability, operating cash flows, debt levels, credit ratings, debt covenants and other contractual restrictions, regulatory
requirements and economic and market conditions. For example, a significant downgrade in our credit ratings or conditions in the capital markets may increase the cost of borrowing for us or limit our access to capital. We have therefore adopted
strategies and actions toward maintaining financial flexibility to mitigate the impact of such factors on our ability to raise capital.        Cash, Cash
Equivalents and Investments.   We maintained a highly liquid position, with cash, cash equivalents and investments of $21.6 billion as of December 31, 2008. As further described under  Dividend Restrictions,  many of our
subsidiaries are subject to various government regulations that restrict the timing and amount of dividends and other distributions that may be paid to their parent companies. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $865 million of our
$21.6 billion of cash and investments was held by non-regulated subsidiaries and was available for general corporate use, including acquisitions and share repurchases.        Shelf Registration.   In February 2008, we filed a universal S-3 shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) registering an unlimited amount of debt securities.
       Credit Ratings.   Our credit ratings at December 31, 2008 were as follows:       

Moody s   
      
   Standard   Poor s   
      
   Fitch    

Ratings   
      
   Outlook   
      
   Ratings   
      
   Outlook   
      
   Ratings   
      
   Outlook    
 
    Senior Unsecured Debt   
      
  Baa1  
      
  Stable  
      
  A-  
      
  Negative  
      
  A-  
      
  Negative   
 
    Commercial Paper   
      
  P-2  
      
  n/a  
      
  A-2  
      
  n/a  
      
  F1  
      
  n/a   
    See Item 1A,  Risk Factors,  for a discussion of our risks related to downgrades in our credit
ratings.        Debt Covenants.   Our debt arrangements and credit facilities contain various covenants, the most restrictive of which require us to
maintain a debt-to-total-capital ratio below 50%. Our debt-to-total-capital ratio (calculated as the sum of commercial paper and debt divided by the sum of commercial paper, debt and shareholders  equity) was 38.1% and 35.4% as of
December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. We were in compliance with the requirements of all debt covenants as of December 31, 2008. In August 2006, we received a purported notice of default from persons claiming to hold
our 5.8% Senior Unsecured Notes due March 15, 2036 alleging a violation of the indenture governing those debt securities. This followed our announcement that we would delay filing our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
June 30, 2006. See Note 15 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the proceeding regarding the purported default.        Bank Credit Facilities.   In November 2008, we entered into a $750 million 364-day revolving bank credit facility which replaced our $1.5 billion 364-day revolving bank credit facility entered into in November 2007. The interest
rate is variable based on term and amount and is calculated based on LIBOR plus a spread. At December 31, 2008, the interest rate ranged from 2.9% to 4.3%.      In May 2007, we amended and restated our $1.3 billion five-year revolving bank credit facility which included increasing the capacity. There is currently $2.5 billion available under this credit facility which matures in May 2012. The
interest rate is variable based on term and amount and is calculated based on LIBOR plus a spread. At December 31, 2008, the interest rate ranged from 0.6% to 2.0%.       
  
   44   

Table of Contents  

   These credit facilities support our commercial paper program and are available for general working capital purposes. As
of December 31, 2008, we had no amounts outstanding under our credit facilities.        Dividend Restrictions.   We conduct a significant
portion of our operations through subsidiaries that are subject to regulations and standards established by their respective states of domicile. Most of these regulations and standards conform to those established by the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners. These standards, among other things, require these subsidiaries to maintain specified levels of statutory capital, as defined by each state, and restrict the timing and amount of dividends and other distributions that may be
paid to their parent companies. Generally, the amount of dividend distributions that may be paid by a regulated subsidiary, without prior approval by state regulatory authorities, is limited based on the entity s level of statutory net income
and statutory capital and surplus.      An inability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to their parent companies could impact the scale to which
we could reinvest in our business through capital expenditures, business acquisitions and the repurchase of shares of our common stock. In addition, an inability to pay regulated dividends could impact our ability to repay our debt; however, our
cash flows from operations of our unregulated businesses, as well as liquidity at the parent level in the form of cash and cash equivalent balances and commercial paper or bank funding, mitigate this risk. See Item 1A,  Risk Factors 
for a discussion of our risks related to dividend restrictions on our regulated subsidiaries.      In 2008, based on the 2007 statutory net income and
statutory capital and surplus levels, the maximum amount of dividends which could be paid without prior regulatory approval was $3.0 billion. As of December 31, 2008, our regulated subsidiaries have paid their parent companies dividends of $4.2
billion, including $1.2 billion of extraordinary dividends approved by state insurance regulators. In 2007, the maximum amount of dividends which could be paid without prior regulatory approval was $2.5 billion. In 2007, $2.9 billion was paid to
their parent companies, including $400 million of extraordinary dividends approved by state insurance regulators.        CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND
COMMITMENTS        The following table summarizes future obligations due by period as of December 31, 2008, under our various contractual obligations
and commitments:       

(a)  
  Debt payments could be accelerated upon violation of debt covenants. We believe the likelihood of acceleration is remote.     

(b)  
  Calculated using stated rates from the debt agreements and related interest rate swap agreements and assuming amounts are outstanding through their contractual term. For
variable-rate obligations, we used the rates in place as of December 31, 2008 to estimate all remaining contractual payments. Includes unamortized discounts from par values.     

(c)  
    Includes fixed or minimum commitments under existing purchase obligations for goods and services, including agreements which are cancelable with the payment of an
early termination penalty. Excludes  
          
   45   

Table of Contents  

agreements that are cancelable without penalty and also excludes liabilities to the extent recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of
December 31, 2008.      

(d)  
  Estimated payments required under life and annuity contracts held by a divested entity. Under our reinsurance arrangement with OneAmerica Financial Partners, Inc. (OneAmerica) these
amounts are payable by OneAmerica, but we remain liable to the policyholders if they are unable to pay. We have recorded a corresponding reinsurance receivable from OneAmerica in our Consolidated Financial Statements.     

(e)  
  Unrecognized tax benefits relate to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48). Since the timing of future settlements is
uncertain, the long-term portion has been classified as  Thereafter.  See Note 10 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more detail.     

(f)  
  Includes remaining capital commitments for venture capital funds and the investment commitment related to the PacifiCare acquisition. See Note 15 of Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for more detail.     

(g)  
  Includes future payments to optionholders related to the application of Section 409A, as well as obligations associated with certain employee benefit programs and charitable
contributions related to the PacifiCare acquisition discussed below, which have been classified as  Thereafter  due to uncertainty regarding payment timing.        We do not have other significant contractual obligations or commitments that require cash resources; however, we continually evaluate opportunities to expand our operations. This includes internal development of new
products, programs and technology applications, and may include acquisitions.        OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS        We do not participate or knowingly seek to participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as
entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities (SPEs), which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As of
December 31, 2008, we were not involved in any SPE transactions.        RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS        In April 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position FAS 142-3,  Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets  (FSP 142-3). FSP 142-3 amends the factors
to be considered in developing renewal and extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset accounted for under FAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.  FSP 142-3 is effective for
our fiscal year 2009 and must be applied prospectively to intangible assets acquired after January 1, 2009. Early adoption is not permitted. We do not expect the adoption of FSP 142-3 will have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial
Statements.      In December 2007, the FASB issued FAS No. 141 (Revised 2007),  Business Combinations  (FAS 141R), which replaces FAS
No. 141,  Business Combinations.  FAS 141R establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in our financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any noncontrolling
interest in the acquiree and the goodwill acquired. The statement also establishes disclosure requirements that will enable users to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. FAS 141R is effective for our fiscal year
2009 and must be applied prospectively to all new acquisitions closing on or after January 1, 2009. Early adoption of this standard is not permitted. We do not expect the adoption of FAS 141R will have a material impact on our Consolidated
Financial Statements.      In December 2007, the FASB issued FAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements   An
Amendment of ARB No. 51  (FAS 160). FAS 160 requires that accounting and reporting for minority interests be recharacterized as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. The  
       
   46   

Table of Contents  

standard is effective for our fiscal year 2009 and must be applied prospectively. We do not expect the adoption of FAS 160 will have a material impact on our
Consolidated Financial Statements.        CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES        Critical accounting estimates are those estimates that require management to make challenging, subjective or complex judgments, often because they must estimate the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain and
may change in subsequent periods. Critical accounting estimates involve judgments and uncertainties that are sufficiently sensitive and may result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions.       Medical Costs       Each reporting period, we estimate our obligations for
medical care services that have been rendered on behalf of insured consumers but for which claims have either not yet been received or processed and for liabilities for physician, hospital and other medical cost disputes. We develop estimates for
medical care services incurred but not reported using an actuarial process that is consistently applied, centrally controlled and automated. The actuarial models consider factors such as time from date of service to claim receipt, claim backlogs,
seasonal variances in medical care consumption, health care professional contract rate changes, medical care utilization and other medical cost trends, membership volume and demographics, benefit plan changes, and business mix changes related to
products, customers and geography. Depending on the health care professional and type of service, the typical billing lag for services can be up to 90 days from the date of service. Substantially all claims related to medical care services are known
and settled within nine to twelve months from the date of service. We estimate liabilities for physician, hospital and other medical cost disputes based upon an analysis of potential outcomes, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement
strategies.      Each period, we re-examine previously established medical costs payable estimates based on actual claim submissions and other changes in facts
and circumstances. As more complete claim information becomes available, we adjust the amount of the estimates and include the changes in estimates in medical costs in the period in which the change is identified. In every reporting period, our
operating results include the effects of more completely developed medical costs payable estimates associated with previously reported periods. If the revised estimate of prior period medical costs is less than the previous estimate, we will
decrease reported medical costs in the current period (favorable development). If the revised estimate of prior period medical costs is more than the previous estimate, we will increase reported medical costs in the current period (unfavorable
development). Historically, the net impact of estimate developments has represented less than 1% of annual medical costs, less than 5% of annual earnings from operations and less than 4% of medical costs payable.      In developing our medical costs payable estimates, we apply different estimation methods depending on the month for which incurred claims are being estimated. For
example, we actuarially calculate completion factors using an analysis of claim adjudication patterns over the most recent 36-month period. A completion factor is an actuarial estimate, based upon historical experience, of the percentage of incurred
claims during a given period that have been adjudicated by us at the date of estimation. For months prior to the most recent three months, we apply the completion factors to actual claims adjudicated-to-date in order to estimate the expected amount
of ultimate incurred claims for those months. We do not believe that completion factors are a reliable basis for estimating claims incurred for the most recent three months as there is typically insufficient claim data available for those months to
calculate credible completion factors. Accordingly, for the most recent three months, we estimate claim costs incurred primarily by applying observed medical cost trend factors to the average per member per month (PMPM) medical costs incurred in
prior months for which more complete claim data is available, supplemented by a review of near-term completion factors. Medical cost trend factors are developed through a comprehensive analysis of claims incurred in prior months for which more
complete claim data is available and by reviewing a broad set of health care utilization indicators including, but not limited to, pharmacy utilization trends, inpatient hospital census data and incidence data from the National Centers for Disease

47   

Table of Contents  

Control, as well as through a review of near-term completion factors. This approach is consistently applied from period to period.      Completion factors are the most significant factors we use in developing our medical costs payable estimates for older periods, generally periods prior to the most
recent three months. The following table illustrates the sensitivity of these factors and the estimated potential impact on our medical costs payable estimates for those periods as of December 31, 2008:       
    Medical cost PMPM trend factors are the most significant factors we use in developing our medical costs payable
estimates for the most recent three months. The following table illustrates the sensitivity of these factors and the estimated potential impact on our medical costs payable estimates for the most recent three months as of December 31, 2008:
      
    The analyses above include those outcomes that are considered reasonably likely based on our historical experience
estimating liabilities for incurred but not reported benefit claims.      In order to evaluate the impact of changes in medical cost estimates for any
particular discrete period, one should consider both the amount of development recorded in the current period pertaining to prior periods and the amount of development recorded in subsequent periods pertaining to the current period. The accompanying
table provides a summary of the net impact of favorable development on medical costs and earnings from operations:       

(a)  
  The amount of favorable development recorded in the current year pertaining to the prior year less the amount of favorable development recorded in the subsequent year pertaining to
the current year.     

(b)  
  Represents reported amounts adjusted to reflect the net impact of medical cost development.     

(c)  
  Not yet determinable as the amount of prior period development recorded in 2009 will change as our December 31, 2008 medical costs payable estimate develops throughout 2009.
          
   48   

Table of Contents  

   Our estimate of medical costs payable represents management s best estimate of our liability for unpaid medical
costs as of December 31, 2008, developed using consistently applied actuarial methods. Management believes the amount of medical costs payable is reasonable and adequate to cover our liability for unpaid claims as of December 31, 2008,
however, actual claim payments may differ from established estimates. Assuming a hypothetical 1% difference between our December 31, 2008 estimates of medical costs payable and actual medical costs payable, excluding AARP Medicare Supplement
Insurance, 2008 net earnings would increase or decrease by $48 million and diluted net earnings per common share would increase or decrease by $0.04 per share.      The current national health care cost inflation rate significantly exceeds the general inflation rate. We use various strategies to lessen the effects of health care cost inflation. These include setting commercial premiums based on
anticipated health care costs, coordinating care with physicians and other health care professionals and rate discounts from physicians and other health care professionals. Through contracts with physicians and other health care professionals, we
emphasize preventive health care, appropriate use of health care services consistent with clinical performance standards, education and closing gaps in care.      We believe our strategies to mitigate the impact of health care cost inflation on our operating results have been and will continue to be successful. However, other factors including competitive pressures, new health care
and pharmaceutical product introductions, demands from physicians and other health care professionals and consumers, major epidemics, and applicable regulations may affect our ability to control the impact of health care cost inflation. Because
of the narrow operating margins of our risk-based products, changes in medical cost trends that were not anticipated in establishing premium rates can create significant changes in our financial results.       Revenues       Revenues are principally derived from health care insurance
premiums. We recognize premium revenues in the period eligible individuals are entitled to receive health care services. Customers are typically billed monthly at a contracted rate per eligible person multiplied by the total number of people
eligible to receive services, as recorded in our records. Employer groups generally provide us with changes to their eligible population one month in arrears. Each billing includes an adjustment for prior period changes in eligibility status that
were not reflected in our previous billing. We estimate and adjust the current period s revenues and accounts receivable accordingly. Our estimates are based on historical trends, premiums billed, the level of contract renewal activity and
other relevant information. We revise estimates of revenue adjustments each period and record changes in the period they become known.      We estimate risk
adjustment revenues based upon the diagnosis data submitted and expected to be submitted to CMS. CMS deploys a risk adjustment model which apportions premiums paid to all health plans according to health severity and certain demographic factors. The
CMS risk adjustment model pays more for members whose medical history would indicate are expected to have higher medical costs. Under this risk adjustment methodology, CMS calculates the risk adjusted premium payment using diagnosis data from
hospital inpatient, hospital outpatient and physician treatment settings. Necessary and available diagnosis data collected and captured by us and health care providers is submitted to CMS within prescribed deadlines.       Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived Assets       As of
December 31, 2008, we had long-lived assets, including goodwill, other intangible assets and property, equipment and capitalized software, of $24.6 billion. We review our goodwill for impairment annually at the reporting unit level, and we
review our remaining long-lived assets for impairment when events and changes in circumstances indicate we might not recover their carrying value. To determine the fair value of our long-lived assets and assess their recoverability, we must make
assumptions about a wide variety of internal and external factors including estimated future utility and estimated future cash flows, which in turn are based on estimates of future revenues, expenses and operating margins. If these estimates or
their related assumptions change in the  
       
   49   

Table of Contents  

future, we may be required to record impairment charges for these assets that could materially affect our results of operations and shareholders  equity
in the period in which the impairment occurs. There were no material impairments at December 31, 2008.       Investments       As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $14.1 billion of investments, primarily held in marketable debt securities. Our investments are principally classified
as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value. We exclude gross unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale investments from earnings and report net unrealized gains or losses, net of income tax effects, as a separate component in
shareholders  equity. We continually monitor the difference between the cost and fair value of our investments. As of December 31, 2008, our investments had gross unrealized gains of $312 million and gross unrealized losses of $349
million. If any of our investments experience a decline in fair value that is determined to be other-than-temporary, based on analysis of relevant factors, we record a realized loss in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Management judgment
is involved in evaluating whether a decline in an investment s fair value is other-than-temporary. We analyze relevant factors individually and in combination including the length of time and extent to which market value has been less than
cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer as well as specific events or circumstances that may influence the operations of the issuer, and our intent and ability to hold the investment for a sufficient time in order to
enable recovery of our cost. New information and the passage of time can change these judgments. We revise impairment judgments when new information becomes known or when we do not anticipate holding the investment until recovery and record any
resulting impairment charges at that time. We manage our investment portfolio to limit our exposure to any one issuer or market sector, and largely limit our investments to U.S. Government and Agency securities, state and municipal securities,
asset-backed, and corporate debt obligations, substantially all of investment grade quality. If securities are downgraded below policy minimums, subsequent to purchase, they will be disposed of in accordance with the investment policy.   
   Contingent Liabilities       Because of the nature of our businesses,
we are routinely involved in various disputes, legal proceedings and governmental audits and investigations. We record liabilities for our estimates of the probable costs resulting from these matters. Our estimates are developed in consultation with
outside legal counsel, if appropriate, and are based upon an analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies and considering our insurance coverage, if any, for such matters. It is possible that future
results of operations for any particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by changes in our estimates or assumptions. See Item 1A,  Risk Factors  for a description of the risks related to our pending regulatory
inquiries and litigation.        LEGAL MATTERS        A
description of our legal proceedings is included in Note 15 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein.        CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK        Investments in financial instruments such as marketable securities and accounts receivable may subject
us to concentrations of credit risk. Our investments in marketable securities are managed under an investment policy authorized by our Board of Directors. This policy limits the amounts that may be invested in any one issuer and generally limits our
investments to U.S. Government and Agency securities, state and municipal securities and corporate debt obligations that are investment grade. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to accounts receivable are limited due to the large number of
employer groups that constitute our customer base. As of December 31, 2008, we had an aggregate $2.0 billion reinsurance receivable resulting from the sale of our Golden Rule Financial Corporation life and annuity business in 2005. We regularly
evaluate the financial condition of the reinsurer and only record the reinsurance receivable to the extent that the amounts are deemed probable of recovery. Currently, the reinsurer is rated by A.M. Best as  A . As of December 31,
2008, there were no other significant concentrations of credit risk.         
   50   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 7A.   
   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK         Our
primary market risks are exposures to (a) changes in interest rates that impact our investment income and expense and the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate financial investments and debt and (b) changes in equity prices that impact
the value of our equity investments.      As of December 31, 2008, approximately $7.4 billion of our financial investments were classified as cash
and cash equivalents on which interest rates received vary with market interest rates, which may materially impact our investment income. Also, approximately $7.2 billion of our debt as of December 31, 2008 was at interest rates that vary with
market rates, either directly or through the use of interest rate swap contracts, which may materially impact our interest expense.      The fair value of
certain of our fixed-rate financial investments and debt also varies with market interest rates. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $13.7 billion of our investments were fixed-rate debt securities, and approximately $5.6 billion
of our debt was fixed-rate term debt with no related interest rate swap contracts. An increase in market interest rates decreases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. Conversely, a decrease in market interest rates
increases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt.      We manage exposure to market interest rates by diversifying investments across
different fixed income market sectors and debt across maturities and interest rate indices, as well as endeavoring to match our floating rate assets and liabilities over time, either directly or through the use of interest rate swap contracts. As
part of our risk management strategy, we enter into interest rate swap agreements with financial institutions to manage the impact of market interest rates on interest expense. The differential between the fixed rates received and the variable rates
paid is accrued and recognized over the life of the agreements as an adjustment to interest expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Our swap agreements converted a majority of our interest expense from a fixed to variable rates to
better offset the impact of market rates on our variable rate cash equivalent investments. In January 2009, we terminated $4.9 billion notional of interest rate swap contracts with financial institutions to lock-in the benefit of current low market
interest rates. Additional information on our derivative financial instruments is included in Note 9 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      The following table summarizes the impact of a hypothetical change in market interest rates by 1% or 2% as of December 31, 2008 on our investment income and interest expense per annum, and the fair value of our financial investments
and debt (in millions):       

(a)  
  Including the impact of the termination of the interest rate swap contracts in January 2009, a hypothetical 1% change in market interest rates would impact the interest expense per
annum by $18 million.        As of December 31, 2008, we had $477 million of equity securities and venture capital funds, a portion of which
were held in various public and non-public companies concentrated in the areas of health care delivery and related information technologies. Market conditions that affect the value of health care or technology stocks will likewise impact the value
of our equity investments.         
   51   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 8.   
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA          UnitedHealth Group        Consolidated Balance Sheets        
    See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   52   

Table of Contents  

    UnitedHealth Group        Consolidated Statements of Operations        
    See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   53   

Table of Contents  

    UnitedHealth Group        Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders  Equity        
    See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   54   

Table of Contents  

    UnitedHealth Group        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows        
    See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   55   

Table of Contents  

    UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        1.    Description of Business    
  UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (also referred to as  UnitedHealth Group  and  the Company ) is a diversified health and well-being company
dedicated to making health care work better. The Company emphasizes enhancing the performance of the health system and improving the overall health and well-being of the people it serves and their communities. The Company helps people get the care
they need at an affordable cost, supports the physician/patient relationship, and empowers people with the information, guidance and tools they need to make personal health choices and decisions.      The Company s primary focus is on improving the health care system by simplifying the administrative components of health care delivery, promoting evidence-based
medicine as the standard for care, and providing relevant, actionable data that physicians, health care professionals, consumers, employers and other participants in health care can use to make better, more informed decisions.      Through its diversified family of businesses, the Company leverages core competencies in advanced technology-based transactional capabilities; health care data,
knowledge and information; and health care resource organization and care facilitation to improve access to health and well-being services, simplify the health care experience, promote quality and make health care more affordable.       2.    Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies         Basis of Presentation        The Company has prepared the Consolidated Financial Statements according to U.S.
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and has included the accounts of UnitedHealth Group and its subsidiaries. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. The Company has eliminated
intercompany balances and transactions.        Use of Estimates        These Consolidated Financial Statements include certain amounts that are based on the Company s best estimates and judgments. These estimates require the application of complex assumptions and judgments, often
because they involve matters that are inherently uncertain and will likely change in subsequent periods. The Company s most significant estimates relate to medical costs, medical costs payable, revenues, goodwill, other intangible assets,
investments and contingent liabilities. The Company adjusts these estimates each period, as more current information becomes available. The impact of any changes in estimates is included in the determination of earnings in the period in which the
estimate is adjusted.        Revenues        Premium
revenues are primarily derived from risk-based health insurance arrangements in which the premium is fixed, typically for a one-year period, and the Company assumes the economic risk of funding its customers  health care services and related
administrative costs. The Company recognizes premium revenues in the period in which eligible individuals are entitled to receive health care services. The Company records health care premium payments received from its customers in advance of the
service period as unearned premiums.      CMS deploys a risk adjustment model which apportions premiums paid to all health plans according to health severity
and certain demographic factors. The CMS risk adjustment model pays more for members whose medical history would indicate are expected to have higher medical costs. Under this risk adjustment  
       
   56   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 methodology, CMS calculates the risk adjusted premium payment using diagnosis data from hospital inpatient, hospital outpatient and physician treatment
settings. The Company and health care providers collect, capture, and submit the necessary and available diagnosis data to CMS within prescribed deadlines. The Company estimates risk adjustment revenues based upon the diagnosis data submitted and
expected to be submitted to CMS.      Service revenues consist primarily of fees derived from services performed for customers that self-insure the medical
costs of their employees and their dependants. Under service fee contracts, the Company recognizes revenue in the period the related services are performed based upon the fee charged to the customer. The customers retain the risk of financing
medical benefits for their employees and employees  dependants, and the Company administers the payment of customer funds to physicians and other health care professionals from customer-funded bank accounts. Because the Company neither has the
obligation for funding the medical expenses, nor the responsibility for providing the medical care, the Company does not recognize premium revenue and medical costs for these contracts in its Consolidated Financial Statements.      For both premium risk-based and fee-based customer arrangements, the Company provides coordination and facilitation of medical services; transaction processing;
customer, consumer and care professional services; and access to contracted networks of physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals.      Through
the Company s Prescription Solutions pharmacy benefits management (PBM) business, revenues are derived from products sold through a contracted network of retail pharmacies, and from administrative services, including claims processing and
formulary design and management. Product revenues include ingredient costs (net of rebates), a negotiated dispensing fee and customer co-payments for drugs dispensed through the Company s mail-service pharmacy. In all retail pharmacy
transactions, revenues recognized always exclude the member s applicable co-payment. Product revenues are recognized upon sale or shipment. Service revenues are recognized when the prescription claim is adjudicated. The Company has entered into
retail service contracts that separately obligate it to pay its network pharmacy providers for benefits provided to their customers, whether or not the Company is paid. The Company is also involved in establishing the prices charged by retail
pharmacies, determining which drugs will be included in formulary listings and selecting which retail pharmacies will be included in the network offered to plan sponsors  members. As a result, revenues are reported on a gross basis in
accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 99-19,  Reporting Gross Revenue as a Principal versus Net as an Agent.  Product revenues also include sales of Ingenix publishing and software products which are recognized
as revenue upon shipment.        Medical Costs and Medical Costs Payable        Medical costs and medical costs payable include estimates of the Company s obligations for medical care services that have been rendered on behalf of insured consumers but for which the Company has either not yet
received or processed claims, and for liabilities for physician, hospital and other medical cost disputes. The Company develops estimates for medical costs incurred but not reported using an actuarial process that is consistently applied, centrally
controlled and automated. The actuarial models consider factors such as time from date of service to claim receipt, claim backlogs, care professional contract rate changes, medical care consumption and other medical cost trends. The Company
estimates liabilities for physician, hospital and other medical cost disputes based upon an analysis of potential outcomes, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. Each period, the Company re-examines previously established
medical costs payable estimates based on actual claim submissions and other changes in facts and circumstances. As the liability estimates recorded in prior periods become more exact, the Company adjusts the amount of the estimates, and includes the
changes in estimates in medical costs in the period in which the change is identified. In every  
       
   57   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 reporting period, the Company s operating results include the effects of more completely developed medical costs payable estimates associated with
previously reported periods.        Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments        Cash and cash equivalents are highly liquid investments that have an original maturity of three months or less. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents approximates their carrying value because of the short
maturity of the instruments.      During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company changed its intent with respect to offsetting cash balances, which affected
its balances in checks outstanding in excess of bank deposits for certain cash balances. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had checks outstanding in excess of bank deposits of $1.2 billion, which were reclassified from Cash and Cash
Equivalents to Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and have been reflected as Checks Outstanding in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. There were no checks outstanding in excess of bank deposits as of
December 31, 2007.      Investments with maturities of less than one year are classified as short-term. Because of regulatory requirements, certain
investments are included in long-term investments regardless of their maturity date. The Company classifies these investments as held-to-maturity and reports them at amortized cost. Substantially all other investments are classified as
available-for-sale and reported at fair value based on quoted market prices, where available.      The Company excludes unrealized gains and losses on
investments in available-for-sale securities from earnings and reports them, net of income tax effects, as a separate component of shareholders  equity. The Company continually monitors the difference between the cost and estimated fair value
of its investments. For those investments in an unrealized loss position, the Company analyzes relevant factors individually and in combination including the length of time and extent to which market value has been less than cost, the financial
condition and near-term prospects of the issuer as well as specific events or circumstances that may influence the operations of the issuer, and the Company s intent and ability to hold the investment for a sufficient time to recover its cost.
New information and the passage of time can change these judgments. The Company revises impairment judgments when new information becomes known or when it does not anticipate holding the investment until the forecasted recovery. If any of the
Company s investments experience a decline in value that is determined to be other-than-temporary, based on analysis of relevant factors, the Company records a realized loss in Investment and Other Income in its Consolidated Statements of
Operations. The amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts are recorded utilizing the effective yield (interest) method, over the period from the date of purchase to maturity or call date, whichever produces the lowest yield. For
asset-backed securities included in debt securities, the Company recognizes income using an effective yield based on anticipated prepayments and the estimated economic life of the securities. When estimates of prepayments change, the effective yield
is recalculated to reflect actual payments to date and anticipated future payments. The net investment in the securities is adjusted to the amount that would have existed had the new effective yield been applied since the acquisition of the
securities. These adjustments are reflected in Investment and Other Income in the period of change. The Company manages its investment portfolio to limit its exposure to any one issuer or market sector, and largely limit its investments to U.S.
Government and Agency securities, state and municipal securities, asset-backed, and corporate debt obligations, all of investment grade quality. If securities are downgraded below policy minimums, subsequent to purchase, they will be disposed of in
accordance with the investment policy. To calculate realized gains and losses on the sale of investments, the Company uses the specific cost or amortized cost of each investment sold.         
   58   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
     Assets Under Management        The Company administers certain aspects of AARP s insurance program (see Note 13 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Pursuant to the Company s agreement, AARP assets are managed separately
from its general investment portfolio and are used to pay costs associated with the AARP program. These assets are invested at the Company s discretion, within investment guidelines approved by AARP. The Company does not guarantee any rates of
return on these investments and, upon transfer of the AARP contract to another entity, the Company would transfer cash equal in amount to the fair value of these investments at the date of transfer to that entity. Because the purpose of these assets
is to fund the medical costs payable, the rate stabilization fund (RSF) liabilities and other related liabilities associated with the AARP contract, assets under management are classified as current assets, consistent with the classification of
these liabilities. Interest earnings and realized investment gains and losses on these assets accrue to the overall benefit of the AARP policyholders through the RSF. Accordingly, they are not included in the Company s earnings.        Other Current Receivables        Other current receivables include
proceeds due from pharmacy rebates, CMS for Medicare Part D, reinsurance and other miscellaneous amounts due to the Company.      The Company s PBM
companies contract with pharmaceutical manufacturers, some of whom provide rebates based on use of the manufacturers  products by its PBM companies  affiliated and non-affiliated clients. The Company accrues rebates as they are earned by
its clients on a monthly basis based on the terms of the applicable contracts, historical data and current estimates. The PBM companies bill these rebates to the manufacturers on a monthly or quarterly basis depending on the contractual terms. The
Company records rebates attributable to affiliated clients as a reduction to medical costs. Rebates attributable to non-affiliated clients are accrued as rebates receivable and a reduction of cost of products sold with a corresponding payable for
the amounts of the rebates to be remitted to non-affiliated clients in accordance with their contracts and posted to the Consolidated Statements of Operations as a reduction of Product Revenue. The Company generally receives rebates between two to
five months after billing.      For details on the Company s Medicare Part D receivables see  Medicare Part D Pharmacy Benefits Contract  below.
     For details on the Company s reinsurance receivable see  Future Policy Benefits and Reinsurance Receivables  below.        Medicare Part D Pharmacy Benefits Contract        The Company
serves as a plan sponsor offering Medicare Part D prescription drug insurance coverage under contracts with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). Under the Medicare Part D program, there are six separate elements of payment received
by the Company during the plan year. These payment elements are as follows:       

CMS Premium    CMS pays a fixed monthly premium per member to the Company for the entire plan year.          

Member Premium    Additionally, certain members pay a fixed monthly premium to the Company for the entire plan year.          

Low-Income Premium Subsidy    For qualifying low-income members, CMS pays some or all of the member s monthly premiums to the Company on the
member s behalf.          

Catastrophic Reinsurance Subsidy    CMS pays the Company a cost reimbursement estimate monthly to fund the CMS obligation to pay approximately 80% of the
costs incurred by individual members in excess  
          
   59   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

of the individual annual out-of-pocket maximum. A settlement is made with CMS based on actual cost experience, subsequent to the end of the plan year.

Low-Income Member Cost Sharing Subsidy    For qualifying low-income members, CMS pays on the member s behalf some or all of a member s cost
sharing amounts, such as deductibles and coinsurance. The cost sharing subsidy is funded by CMS through monthly payments to the Company. The Company administers and pays the subsidized portion of the claims on behalf of CMS, and a settlement payment
is made between CMS and the Company based on actual claims and premium experience, subsequent to the end of the plan year.          

CMS Risk-Share    Premiums from CMS are subject to risk corridor provisions which compare costs targeted in the Company s annual bids to actual
prescription drug costs, limited to actual costs that would have been incurred under the standard coverage as defined by CMS. Variances of more than 5% above or below the original bid submitted by the Company may result in CMS making additional
payments to the Company or require the Company to refund to CMS a portion of the premiums it received. The Company estimates and recognizes an adjustment to premium revenues related to the risk corridor payment settlement based upon pharmacy claims
experience. The estimate of the settlement associated with these risk corridor provisions requires the Company to consider factors that may not be certain, including member eligibility status differences with CMS. The risk-share adjustment, if any,
is recorded as an adjustment to premium revenues and other current assets or liabilities.         The CMS Premium, the Member Premium, and the
Low-Income Premium Subsidy represent payments for the Company s insurance risk coverage under the Medicare Part D program and therefore are recorded as Premium Revenues in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Premium revenues are
recognized ratably over the period in which eligible individuals are entitled to receive prescription drug benefits. The Company records premium payments received in advance of the applicable service period in Unearned Premiums in the Consolidated
Balance Sheets.      The Catastrophic Reinsurance Subsidy and the Low-Income Member Cost Sharing Subsidy represent cost reimbursements under the Medicare Part
D program. The Company is fully reimbursed by CMS for costs incurred for these contract elements and accordingly, there is no insurance risk to the Company. Amounts received for these subsidies are not reflected as premium revenues, but rather are
accounted for as deposits within Other Policy Liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Related cash flows are presented as Customer Funds Administered within financing activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.      As of December 31, 2008, there was a receivable for the Catastrophic Reinsurance Subsidy and the Low-Income Member Cost Sharing Subsidy of $349 million recorded in
Other Current Receivables in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of December 31, 2007, there were amounts on deposit for these subsidies of approximately $340 million recorded in Other Policy Liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
     Pharmacy benefit costs and administrative costs under the contract are expensed as incurred and are recognized in Medical Costs and Operating Costs,
respectively, in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.      As a result of the Medicare Part D product benefit design, the Company incurs a
disproportionate amount of pharmacy benefit costs early in the contract year. While the Company is responsible for approximately 67% of a Medicare Part D beneficiary s drug costs up to the initial coverage limit, the beneficiary is responsible
for 100% of their drug costs from the initial coverage limit to the out-of-pocket maximum. Consequently, the Company incurs a disproportionate amount of pharmacy benefit costs in the first half of the contract year as compared with the last half of
the contract year, when comparatively more members will be incurring claims above the initial  
       
   60   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 coverage limit. The uneven timing of Medicare Part D pharmacy benefit claims results in losses in the first half of the year that, if they continued at that
pace for the rest of the year, would entitle the Company to risk-share adjustment payments from CMS. Accordingly, during the interim periods within the contract year, the Company records a net risk-share receivable from CMS in Other Current
Receivables in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and a corresponding retrospective premium adjustment in Premium Revenues in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. This represents the estimated amount payable by CMS to the Company under the
risk-share contract provisions if the program were terminated based on estimated costs incurred through that interim period. Typically, those losses are expected to reverse in the second half of the year.      The final 2008 risk-share amount is expected to be settled during the second half of 2009, and is subject to the reconciliation process with CMS. The net risk-share
receivable from CMS of $19 million was recorded in Other Current Receivables in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2007, there was a net risk-share payable of approximately $280 million recorded in
Other Policy Liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.      As of January 1, 2009, certain changes were made to the Medicare Part D
coverage by CMS, including:       

The annual out-of-pocket maximum increased to $4,350.           Property, Equipment and Capitalized Software        Property, equipment and capitalized software are stated at cost, net of accumulated
depreciation and amortization. Capitalized software consists of certain costs incurred in the development of internal-use software, including external direct costs of materials and services and payroll costs of employees devoted to specific software
development. The Company reviews property, equipment and capitalized software for events or changes in circumstances that would indicate that we might not recover their carrying value. If the Company determines that an asset may not be recoverable,
an impairment charge is recorded.      The Company calculates depreciation and amortization using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of
the assets. The useful lives for property, equipment and capitalized software are:       

Furniture, fixtures and equipment   
      
  3 to 7 years   
 
    Buildings   
      
  35 to 40 years   
 
    Leasehold improvements   
      
  Shorter of useful life or remaining lease term   
 
    Capitalized software   
      
  3 to 9 years   
      Goodwill        Goodwill represents the amount by which the purchase price of businesses the Company has acquired exceeds the estimated fair value of the net tangible assets and separately identifiable intangible assets of these businesses.      In accordance with FAS 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,  the Company tests goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or
one level below an operating segment) on January 1st of each year or more frequently if it believes indicators of impairment exist. The Company has eleven reporting units at December 31, 2008. The performance of the test involves a
two-step process. The first step of the impairment test involves comparing the fair values of the applicable reporting units with their aggregate carrying values,  
       
   61   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 including goodwill. The Company generally determines the fair value of its reporting units utilizing a discounted cash flow method, an income approach. If
the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds the reporting unit s fair value, the Company performs the second step of the goodwill impairment test to determine the amount of impairment loss. The second step of the goodwill impairment test
involves comparing the implied fair value of the affected reporting unit s goodwill with the carrying value of that goodwill.      The income approach
utilized by the Company requires the use of various estimates and assumptions, the most significant of which include forecasted cash flows, weighted average cost of capital, terminal value, long-term growth rates, and working capital requirements.
The Company conducted its most recent impairment test on January 1, 2009 and has determined there to be no impairment of the carrying values of goodwill as of December 31, 2008.        Other Intangible Assets        Intangible assets with discrete
useful lives are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives unless another method can be reasonably determined. Intangible assets are reviewed for events or changes in circumstances that would indicate an asset s
carrying value exceeds its estimated fair value in which case an impairment charge would be recorded. The Company considers many factors, including estimated future utility and cash flows associated with the assets, to make this decision. There were
no material impairments at December 31, 2008.        Other Policy Liabilities        Other policy liabilities include the RSF associated with the AARP program (see Note 13 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), deposits under the Medicare Part D program (see  Medicare Part D Pharmacy
Benefits Contract  above), customer balances related to experience-rated insurance products and the current portion of future policy benefits. Customer balances represent excess customer payments and deposit accounts under experience-rated
contracts. At the customer s option, these balances may be refunded or used to pay future premiums or claims under eligible contracts.        Income
Taxes        Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the differences between the financial and income tax reporting bases of assets
and liabilities based on enacted tax rates and laws. The deferred income tax provision or benefit generally reflects the net change in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the year, excluding any deferred income tax assets and
liabilities of acquired businesses. The current income tax provision reflects the tax consequences of revenues and expenses currently taxable or deductible on various income tax returns for the year reported.        Future Policy Benefits and Reinsurance Receivables        Future
policy benefits represent account balances that accrue to the benefit of the policyholders, excluding surrender charges, for universal life and investment annuity products and health policies sold to individuals for which some of the premium
received in the earlier years is intended to pay benefits to be incurred in future years. As a result of the 2005 sale of the life and annuity business within the Company s Golden Rule Financial Corporation (Golden Rule) subsidiary under an
indemnity reinsurance arrangement, the Company has maintained a liability associated with the reinsured contracts, as it remains primarily liable to the policyholders, and has recorded a corresponding reinsurance receivable due from the purchaser.
As of December 31, 2008, the  
       
   62   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 Company had an aggregate $2.0 billion reinsurance receivable, of which $154 million was recorded in Other Current Receivables and $1.9 billion was recorded
in Other Assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had an aggregate $2.0 billion reinsurance receivable, of which $167 million was recorded in Other Current Receivables and $1.8 billion was recorded in
Other Assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company evaluates the financial condition of the reinsurer and only records the reinsurance receivable to the extent of probable recovery.        Policy Acquisition Costs        The Company s commercial health
insurance contracts typically have a one-year term and may be cancelled by the customer with at least 31 days notice. Costs related to the acquisition and renewal of commercial customer contracts are charged to expense as incurred.        Share-Based Compensation        The Company accounts for share-based
compensation in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment  (FAS 123R) under the modified retrospective method of adoption. Under the fair value recognition
provisions of this statement, share-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense over the period in which the share-based compensation vests.        Net Earnings Per Common Share        The Company computes basic net
earnings per common share by dividing net earnings by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. The Company determines diluted net earnings per common share using the weighted-average number of common shares
outstanding during the period, adjusted for potentially dilutive shares associated with the exercise of common stock options, stock-settled stock appreciation rights (SARs) and the conversion of convertible subordinated debentures.        Derivative Financial Instruments        As part of the
Company s risk management strategy, the Company enters into interest rate swap agreements with financial institutions to manage the impact of market interest rates on interest expense. The differential between the fixed rates received and the
variable rates paid is accrued and recognized over the life of the agreements as an adjustment to interest expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company s swap agreements converted a majority of its interest expense from
fixed to variable rates to better offset the impact of market rates on its variable rate cash equivalent investments and are accounted for under the short-cut method as fair value hedges. Additional information on the Company s derivative
financial instruments is included in Note 9 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.        Recent Accounting Standards          Recently Adopted Accounting Standards.   In February 2007, the FASB issued FAS No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
Liabilities   Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115  (FAS 159). FAS 159 expands the use of fair value accounting but does not affect existing standards that require assets or liabilities to be carried at fair value. Under
FAS 159, a company may elect to use fair value to measure various assets and liabilities including accounts receivable, available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities, equity method investments, accounts payable, guarantees and issued debt. The
fair value election is irrevocable  
       
   63   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 and generally made on an instrument-by-instrument basis, even if a company has similar instruments that it elects not to measure based on fair value. The
Company adopted FAS 159 as of January 1, 2008 and elected the fair value option for the AARP Assets Under Management on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at that date. The impact of adoption of FAS 159 was not material to the Company. For a
discussion of the instruments for which the fair value option was applied, see Note 13 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      In September
2006, the FASB issued FAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (FAS 157). FAS 157 establishes a framework for measuring fair value. It does not require any new fair value measurements, but does require expanded disclosures to provide
information about the extent to which fair value is used to measure assets and liabilities, the methods and assumptions used to measure fair value, and the effect of fair value measures on earnings. FAS 157 is effective for financial assets and
liabilities measured at fair value in the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position FAS 157-2,  Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157  (FSP 157-2). FSP 157-2 delayed the
effective date of FAS 157 for all nonfinancial assets and liabilities for one year, except those that are measured at fair value in the financial statements on at least an annual basis. The Company adopted FAS 157 as of January 1, 2008, except
for those provisions deferred under FSP 157-2. The deferred provisions of FAS 157, which apply primarily to goodwill and other intangible assets for annual impairment testing purposes, will be effective in 2009. The Company does not expect the
adoption of the deferred provisions of FAS 157 will have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 5 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion.        Recently Issued Accounting Standards.   In April 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position FAS 142-3,  Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible
Assets  (FSP 142-3). FSP 142-3 amends the factors to be considered in developing renewal and extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset accounted for under FAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets.  FSP 142-3 is effective for the Company s fiscal year 2009 and must be applied prospectively to intangible assets acquired after January 1, 2009. Early adoption is not permitted. The Company does not expect the
adoption of FSP 142-3 will have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.      In December 2007, the FASB issued FAS No. 141 (Revised
2007),  Business Combinations  (FAS 141R), which replaces FAS No. 141,  Business Combinations.  FAS 141R establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the
identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree and the goodwill acquired. The statement also establishes disclosure requirements that will enable users to evaluate the nature and financial effects
of the business combination. FAS 141R is effective for the Company s fiscal year 2009 and must be applied prospectively to all new acquisitions closing on or after January 1, 2009. Early adoption of this standard is not permitted. The
Company does not expect the adoption of FAS 141R will have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.      In December 2007, the FASB issued
FAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements   An Amendment of ARB No. 51  (FAS 160). FAS 160 requires that accounting and reporting for minority interests be recharacterized as noncontrolling
interests and classified as a component of equity. The standard is effective for the Company s fiscal year 2009 and must be applied prospectively. The Company does not expect the adoption of FAS 160 will have a material impact on its
Consolidated Financial Statements.       3.    Acquisitions       On May 30, 2008, the Company acquired all the outstanding shares of Unison Health Plans (Unison) for approximately $930 million in cash. Unison provides government-sponsored health plan coverage to people in

64   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 Pennsylvania, Ohio, Tennessee, Delaware, South Carolina and Washington, D.C. through a network of independent health care professionals. On a preliminary
basis, the total consideration paid exceeded the estimated fair value of the net tangible assets acquired by $806 million, of which $89 million has been allocated to finite-lived intangible assets and $717 million to goodwill. The allocation is
pending completion of a valuation analysis. The acquired goodwill is not deductible for income tax purposes. The results of operations and financial condition of Unison have been included in the Company s consolidated results and the results of
the Health Care Services reporting segment since the acquisition date. The pro forma effects of this acquisition on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements were not material.      On February 25, 2008, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Sierra Health Services, Inc. (Sierra), a diversified health care services company based
in Las Vegas, Nevada, for approximately $2.6 billion in cash, representing a price of $43.50 per share of Sierra common stock. The total consideration paid exceeded the estimated fair value of the net tangible assets acquired by $2.5 billion. Based
on management s consideration of fair value, which included completion of a valuation analysis, $500 million has been allocated to finite-lived intangible assets and $2.0 billion to goodwill. The acquired goodwill is not deductible for income
tax purposes. The U.S. Department of Justice approved the acquisition conditioned upon the divestiture of the Company s individual SecureHorizons Medicare Advantage HMO plans in Clark and Nye Counties, Nevada, which represented approximately
30,000 members. The divestiture was completed on April 30, 2008. The Company received proceeds of $185 million for this transaction which were recorded as a reduction to Operating Costs. Group SecureHorizons Medicare Advantage plans offered
through commercial contracts were excluded from the divestiture. Also, the Company retained Sierra s Medicare Advantage HMO plans in Nevada. The results of operations and financial condition of Sierra have been included in the Company s
consolidated results and the results of the Health Care Services, OptumHealth and Prescription Solutions reporting segments since the acquisition date. The pro forma effects of this acquisition on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements
were not material.      On January 10, 2008, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Fiserv Health, Inc. (Fiserv Health), a subsidiary of
Fiserv, Inc., for approximately $740 million in cash. Fiserv Health is a leading administrator of medical benefits and also provides care facilitation services, specialty health solutions and PBM services. On a preliminary basis, the total
consideration paid exceeded the estimated fair value of the net tangible assets acquired by $752 million, of which $253 million has been allocated to finite-lived intangible assets and $499 million to goodwill. The allocation is pending completion
of a valuation analysis. The acquired goodwill is deductible for income tax purposes. The results of operations and financial condition of Fiserv Health have been included in the Company s consolidated results and the results of the Health Care
Services, OptumHealth, Ingenix and Prescription Solutions reporting segments since the acquisition date. The pro forma effects of this acquisition on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements were not material.      On December 1, 2006, the Company acquired the Student Insurance Division (Student Resources) of The MEGA Life and Health Insurance Company through an asset purchase
agreement. Student Resources primarily serves college and university students. This acquisition strengthened the Company s position in this market and provided expanded distribution opportunities for its other UnitedHealth Group businesses. In
exchange and under the terms of the asset purchase agreement, the Company issued a 10-year, $95 million promissory note bearing a 5.4% fixed interest rate and paid approximately $1 million in cash. The results of operations and financial condition
of Student Resources have been included in the Company s consolidated results and the results of the Health Care Services reporting segment since the acquisition date. The pro forma effects of this acquisition on the Company s Consolidated
Financial Statements were not material.      On February 24, 2006, the Company acquired John Deere Health Care, Inc. (JDHC). JDHC serves employers
primarily in Iowa, central and western Illinois, eastern Tennessee and southwestern Virginia. This acquisition  
       
   65   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 strengthened the Company s resources and capabilities in these areas. The operations of JDHC reside primarily within the Company s Health Care
Services reporting segment. The Company paid approximately $515 million in cash in exchange for all of the outstanding equity of JDHC. The purchase price and costs associated with the acquisition exceeded the fair value of the net tangible assets
acquired by approximately $376 million. Based on management s consideration of fair value, which included completion of a valuation analysis, the Company has allocated the excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible assets
acquired to finite-lived intangible assets of $53 million and goodwill of $323 million. The acquired goodwill is deductible for income tax purposes. The results of operations and financial condition of JDHC have been included in the Company s
Consolidated Financial Statements since the acquisition date. The pro forma effects of this acquisition on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements were not material. JDHC was renamed UnitedHealthcare Services Company of the River
Valley, Inc.      The finite-lived intangible assets and related weighted-average useful lives, by acquisition, as of December 31, 2008 consisted of the
following:       

(a)  
  Pending completion of a final valuation analysis        For the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, aggregate consideration paid, net of cash assumed and other effects, for smaller acquisitions was $94 million, $262 million and $276 million, respectively. These acquisitions were not material to the
Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   66   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    4.    Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments       As of December 31, the amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses, and fair value of cash, cash equivalents and investments, by type, were as follows:

(a)  
  Includes Agency-backed mortgage pass-through securities.           
   67   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The amortized cost and fair value of debt securities available-for-sale as of December 31, 2008, by contractual
maturity, are as follows:       

(a)  
  Includes Agency-backed mortgage pass-through securities.        The amortized
cost and fair value of debt securities held-to-maturity as of December 31, 2008, by contractual maturity, are as follows:       
    The gross unrealized losses and fair value of investments with unrealized losses by investment type and length of
time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position as of December 31 are as follows (a):       

(a)  
    Debt securities classified as held-to-maturity investments have been excluded from this analysis. These investments are predominantly held in U.S. Government or
Agency obligations and the contractual terms do  
          
   68   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

not permit the issuer to settle the securities at a price less than the amortized cost of the investment. Additionally, the fair values of these investments
approximate their amortized cost.      

(b)  
  Includes Agency-backed mortgage pass-through securities.        The unrealized
losses as of December 31, 2008 were generated from approximately 4,400 positions out of a total of approximately 12,000 positions. The unrealized losses on investments in U.S. Government and Agency obligations, state and municipal obligations
and corporate obligations as of December 31, 2008 were primarily caused by interest rate increases and not by unfavorable changes in the credit ratings associated with these securities. The Company evaluates impairment at each reporting period
for securities where the fair value of the investment is less than its cost. The contractual cash flows of the U.S. Government and Agency obligations are either guaranteed by the U.S. Government or an agency of the U.S. Government. It is expected
that the securities would not be settled at a price less than the cost of the Company s investment. The Company evaluated the underlying credit quality of the issuers and the credit ratings of the state and municipal obligations and the
corporate obligations, noting neither a significant deterioration since purchase nor other factors leading to an other-than-temporary impairment.      A
portion of the Company s investments in equity securities and venture capital funds consists of investments held in various public and nonpublic companies concentrated in the areas of health care delivery and related information technologies.
Market conditions that affect the value of health care and related technology stocks will likewise impact the value of the Company s equity portfolio. The equity securities and venture capital funds were evaluated for severity and duration of
unrealized loss, overall market volatility and other market factors.      The Company analyzes relevant factors individually and in combination including the
length of time and extent to which market value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer as well as specific events or circumstances that may influence the operations of the issuer, and its intent and
ability to hold the investment for a sufficient time to recover the Company s cost. The Company revises impairment judgments when new information becomes known or when it does not anticipate holding the investment until recovery. If any of the
Company s investments experiences a decline in fair value that is determined to be other-than-temporary, based on analysis of relevant factors, the Company records a realized loss in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company does
not consider the unrealized losses on each of the investments described above to be other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2008.      Realized
gains and losses were as follows:      
    Included in the gross realized losses above are impairment charges of $121 million, $6 million and $4 million for
2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.       5.    Fair Value Measurements       The Company adopted FAS 157, subject to the deferral provisions of FSP 157-2 as discussed in Note 2 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as of January 1, 2008. This standard defines fair value,
establishes a  
       
   69   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The fair value hierarchy is as follows:       Level 1    Quoted (unadjusted) prices for identical assets in active markets.       Level 2    Other observable inputs, either directly or indirectly, including:       

Quoted prices for similar assets in active markets;          

Quoted prices for identical or similar assets in non-active markets (few transactions, limited information, non-current prices, high variability over time, etc.);

Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset (interest rates, yield curves, volatilities, default rates, etc.); and

Inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by other observable market data.          Level 3    Unobservable inputs that cannot be corroborated by observable market data.      Fair values of available-for-sale debt and equity securities are based on quoted market prices, where available. The Company obtains one price for each security
primarily from a third party pricing service (pricing service), which generally uses Level 1 or Level 2 inputs for the determination of fair value in accordance with FAS 157. The pricing service normally derives the security prices through recently
reported trades for identical or similar securities, making adjustments through the reporting date based upon available observable market information. For securities not actively traded, the pricing service may use quoted market prices of comparable
instruments or discounted cash flow analyses, incorporating inputs that are currently observable in the markets for similar securities. Inputs that are often used in the valuation methodologies include, but are not limited to, non-binding broker
quotes, benchmark yields, credit spreads, default rates and prepayment speeds. As the Company is responsible for the determination of fair value, it performs quarterly analyses on the prices received from the pricing service to determine whether the
prices are reasonable estimates of fair value. As a result of these reviews, the Company has not historically adjusted the prices obtained from the pricing service.      In instances in which the inputs used to measure fair value fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy, the fair value measurement has been determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to
the fair value measurement in its entirety. The Company s assessment of the significance of a particular item to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment, including the consideration of inputs specific to the asset.
        
   70   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table presents information as of December 31, 2008 about the Company s financial assets,
excluding AARP, that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, according to the valuation techniques the Company used to determine their fair values. See Note 13 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on AARP.

(a)  
  Includes Agency-backed mortgage pass-through securities.        The following
methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instrument:        Cash and Cash Equivalents.   The carrying
value of cash and cash equivalents approximates fair value as maturities are less than three months. Fair values of cash equivalent instruments that do not trade on a regular basis in active markets are classified as Level 2.        Debt Securities.   The estimated fair values of debt securities held as available-for-sale are based on quoted market prices and/or other market data for the
same or comparable instruments and transactions in establishing the prices. Fair values of debt securities that do not trade on a regular basis in active markets are classified as Level 2.        Equity Securities.   All equity securities are held as available-for-sale investments. The fair values of investments in venture capital portfolios are
estimated using a market model approach that relies heavily on management assumptions and qualitative observations and are therefore considered to be Level 3 fair values. Fair value estimates for publicly traded equity securities are based on quoted
market prices and/or other market data for the same or comparable instruments and transactions in establishing the prices.        Interest Rate
Swaps.   Fair values of the Company s interest rate swaps are estimated utilizing the terms of the swaps and publicly available market yield curves. Because the swaps are unique and are not actively traded, the fair values are classified
as Level 2 estimates.         
   71   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The Level 3 activity for the year ended December 31, 2008 is summarized below:       
    Net realized losses were included in Investment and Other Income in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
      6.     Property, Equipment and Capitalized Software       A summary of property, equipment and capitalized software is as follows:       
    Depreciation expense for property and equipment for 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $439 million, $359 million and $282
million, respectively. Amortization expense for capitalized software for 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $290 million, $245 million and $207 million, respectively.       7.    Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets       Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill, by reporting segment, during the
years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, were as follows:       
       
   72   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The gross carrying value, accumulated amortization and net carrying value of other intangible assets were as follows:
      
    Amortization expense relating to intangible assets was $252 million in 2008, $192 million in 2007 and $181 million
in 2006.      Estimated full year amortization expense relating to intangible assets for each of the next five years is as follows:       
     8.    Medical Costs and Medical Costs Payable       Medical costs and medical costs payable include estimates of the Company s obligations for medical care services that have been rendered on behalf of insured
consumers, but for which claims have either not yet been received or processed, and for liabilities for physician, hospital and other medical cost disputes. The Company develops estimates for medical costs incurred but not reported using an
actuarial process that is consistently applied, centrally controlled and automated. The actuarial models consider factors such as time from date of service to claim receipt, claim backlogs, care provider contract rate changes, medical care
consumption and other medical cost trends. The Company estimates liabilities for physician, hospital and other medical cost disputes based upon an analysis of potential outcomes, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. Each
period, the Company re-examines previously established medical costs payable estimates based on actual claim submissions and other changes in facts and circumstances. As the medical costs payable estimates recorded in prior periods develop, the
Company adjusts the amount of the estimates and includes the changes in estimates in medical costs in the period in which the change is identified.      The
following table shows the components of the change in medical costs payable for the years ended December 31:       
       
   73   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    9.    Commercial Paper and Long-Term Debt       Commercial paper and long-term debt consisted of the following:       

(a)  
  The carrying value of debt has been adjusted based upon the applicable interest rate swap fair values in accordance with the fair value hedge short-cut method of accounting
described below.           
   74   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

(b)  
  Estimated based on third-party quoted market prices for the same or similar issues.     

(c)  
  As of December 31, 2007, the fair value of the interest rate swaps was classified within debt in the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of December 31, 2008,
the fair values of the interest rate swaps were $622 million with $7 million classified in Other Current Assets and $615 million classified in Other Assets.        Maturities of commercial paper and long-term debt for the years ending December 31 are as follows:       
      Commercial Paper and Credit Facilities        Commercial paper consisted of senior unsecured debt sold on a discount basis with maturities up to 270 days. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had $101 million outstanding commercial paper with interest rates
ranging from 5.1% to 7.1%.      In November 2008, the Company entered into a $750 million 364-day revolving bank credit facility which replaced the
Company s $1.5 billion 364-day revolving bank credit facility entered into in November 2007. The interest rate is variable based on term and amount and is calculated based on LIBOR plus a spread. At December 31, 2008, the interest rate
ranged from 2.9% to 4.3%.      In May 2007, the Company amended and restated its $1.3 billion five-year revolving bank credit facility which included
increasing the capacity. There is currently $2.5 billion available under this credit facility which matures in May 2012. The interest rate is variable based on term and amount and is calculated based on LIBOR plus a spread. At December 31,
2008, the interest rate ranged from 0.6% to 2.0%.      These credit facilities support the Company s commercial paper program and are available for
general working capital purposes. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had no amounts outstanding under its credit facilities.        Long-Term Debt
       In February 2008, the Company issued a total of $3.0 billion in senior unsecured debt, which included: $250 million of floating-rate notes due
February 2011, $550 million of 4.9% fixed-rate notes due February 2013, $1.1 billion of 6.0% fixed-rate notes due February 2018 and $1.1 billion of 6.9% fixed-rate notes due February 2038. The floating-rate notes are benchmarked to the London
Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and had an interest rate of 3.8% at December 31, 2008.      In November 2007, the Company issued $500 million of zero
coupon notes due November 2022. These zero coupon notes are original issue discount notes with an aggregate principal amount due at maturity of $1.1 billion and an accretion yield of 5.3%. These notes have a put feature that allows a note holder to
require the Company to repurchase the notes at the accreted value at certain annual dates in the future, beginning on November 15, 2010.         
   75   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   In November 2007, the Company issued a total of $1.6 billion in senior unsecured debt, which included: $250 million
of 5.1% fixed-rate notes due November 2010, $450 million of 5.5% fixed-rate notes due November 2012, $250 million of 6.0% fixed-rate notes due November 2017 and $650 million of 6.6% fixed-rate notes due November 2037. These notes were issued
pursuant to an exemption from registration under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 (1933 Act). In February 2008, the Company completed an exchange offer in which then-existing noteholders exchanged each series of these notes for a
new issue of substantially identical debt securities registered under the 1933 Act.      In June 2007, the Company issued a total of $1.5 billion in senior
unsecured debt, which included: $500 million of floating-rate notes due June 2010, $500 million of 6.0% fixed-rate notes due June 2017 and $500 million of 6.5% fixed-rate notes due June 2037. The floating-rate notes are benchmarked to LIBOR and had
an interest rate of 1.7% at December 31, 2008. These notes were issued pursuant to an exemption from registration under Section 4(2) of the 1933 Act. In February 2008, the Company completed an exchange offer in which
then-existing noteholders exchanged each series of these notes for a new issue of substantially identical debt securities registered under the 1933 Act.      In March 2006, the Company issued a total of $3.0 billion in senior unsecured debt to refinance outstanding commercial paper. The Company issued $650 million of floating-rate notes due March 2009, $750 million of 5.3% fixed-rate notes due
March 2011, $750 million of 5.4% fixed-rate notes due March 2016 and $850 million of 5.8% fixed-rate notes due March 2036. The floating-rate notes are benchmarked to the LIBOR and had an interest rate of 2.3% at December 31, 2008.
       Debt Covenants        The Company s debt
arrangements and credit facilities contain various covenants, the most restrictive of which require the Company to maintain a debt-to-total-capital ratio (calculated as the sum of commercial paper and debt divided by the sum of commercial paper,
debt and shareholders  equity) below 50%. The Company was in compliance with the requirements of all debt covenants as of December 31, 2008. In August 2006, the Company received a purported notice of default from persons claiming to hold
its 5.8% Senior Unsecured Notes due March 15, 2036 alleging a violation of the indenture governing those debt securities. This followed the Company s announcement that the Company would delay filing its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended June 30, 2006. See Note 15 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the proceeding regarding the purported default.        Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities        To more closely align interest expense with interest income
received on the Company s cash equivalent and investment balances, the Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements to convert the majority of its interest rate exposure from fixed rates to floating rates. The interest rate swap
agreements have aggregate notional amounts of $5.1 billion and $5.6 billion at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. The floating rates are benchmarked to LIBOR. The swaps are designated as fair value hedges of the
fixed-rate debt under the short-cut method of FAS 133, and are reported at fair market value in the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets with the carrying value of the debt adjusted by an offsetting amount, with no changes in market value
recognized through the Company s Consolidated Statements of Operations.      In January 2009 the Company terminated $4.9 billion notional of interest rate
swap contracts with financial institutions to lock-in the benefit of current low market interest rates. The cumulative adjustment to the carrying value of the Company s debt was $513 million and will be amortized as a reduction to interest
expense over the remaining life of the related debt, resulting in a weighted average interest rate of 3.3%.         
   76   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    10.    Income Taxes       The components of the provision for income taxes for the years ended December 31 are as follows:       
    The reconciliation of the tax provision at the U.S. Federal Statutory Rate to the provision for income taxes for
the years ended December 31 is as follows:       
    The components of deferred income tax assets and liabilities as of December 31 are as follows:       
       
   77   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Valuation allowances are provided when it is considered more likely than not that deferred tax assets will not be
realized. The valuation allowances primarily relate to future tax benefits on certain state net operating loss carryforwards. Federal net operating loss carryforwards of $82 million expire beginning in 2012 through 2028, and state net operating loss
carryforwards expire beginning in 2009 through 2028.      The Company adopted the provisions of FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. The cumulative effect of
adopting FIN 48 for the first quarter of 2007 resulted in an increase to its liability for unrecognized tax benefits of $88 million, which included a reduction of $61 million in retained earnings and an increase of $26 million in goodwill. The total
amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of the date of adoption was $341 million. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31 is as follows:       
    The Company classifies interest and penalties associated with uncertain income tax positions as income taxes
within its Consolidated Financial Statements. During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company recognized $23 million and $28 million of interest expense, respectively. The Company had approximately $65 million and $54 million of
accrued interest, respectively, at December 31, 2008 and 2007, which were reported in Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. These amounts are not included in the reconciliation above. As of
December 31, 2008, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate was $193 million.      The
Company currently files income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, various states, and foreign jurisdictions. The U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed exams on the consolidated income tax returns for fiscal years 2007 and
prior. The Company s 2008 tax return is under advance review by the IRS under its Compliance Assurance Program (CAP). With the exception of a few states, the Company is no longer subject to income tax examinations prior to 2002 in major state
and foreign jurisdictions. The Company does not believe any adjustments that may result from these examinations will be significant.      The Company believes
it is reasonably possible that its liability for unrecognized tax benefits will decrease in the next twelve months by $138 million or less as a result of audit settlements and the expiration of statutes of limitations in certain major jurisdictions.
      11.    Shareholders  Equity         Regulatory Capital and Dividend Restrictions        The Company conducts a significant portion of its operations through subsidiaries that
are subject to regulations and standards established by their respective states of domicile. Most of these regulations and standards conform  
       
   78   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 to those established by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. These standards, among other things, require these subsidiaries to maintain
specified levels of statutory capital, as defined by each state, and restrict the timing and amount of dividends and other distributions that may be paid to their parent companies. Generally, the amount of dividend distributions that may be paid by
a regulated subsidiary, without prior approval by state regulatory authorities, is limited based on the entity s level of statutory net income and statutory capital and surplus.      In 2008, based on the 2007 statutory net income and statutory capital and surplus levels, the maximum amount of dividends which could be paid without prior regulatory approval was $3.0 billion. As of December 31,
2008, the Company s regulated subsidiaries have paid their parent companies dividends of $4.2 billion, including $1.2 billion of extraordinary dividends approved by state insurance regulators. In 2007, the maximum amount of dividends which
could be paid without prior regulatory approval was $2.5 billion. $2.9 billion was paid to their parent companies, including $400 million of extraordinary dividends approved by state insurance regulators. At December 31, 2008, approximately
$865 million of the Company s $21.6 billion of cash and investments was held by non-regulated subsidiaries and was available for general corporate use, including acquisitions and share repurchases.      The Company s regulated subsidiaries had aggregate statutory capital and surplus of approximately $10 billion as of December 31, 2008, which is significantly
more than the aggregate minimum regulatory requirements.        Share Repurchase Program        Under its Board of Directors  authorization, the Company maintains a share repurchase program (the Repurchase Program). The objectives of the Repurchase Program are
to optimize the Company s capital structure and cost of capital thereby improving returns to shareholders, as well as to offset the dilutive impact of share-based awards. Repurchases may be made from time to time at prevailing prices. During
2008, the Company repurchased 72 million shares at an average price of approximately $37 per share and an aggregate cost of approximately $2.7 billion. At December 31, 2008, the Company had Board of Directors  authorization to
purchase up to an additional 103 million shares of its common stock.       12.    Share-Based Compensation and Other Employee
Benefit Plans       The Company s 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (Plan), as amended and restated May 15, 2002, is intended to attract and retain
employees and non-employee directors, offer them incentives to put forth maximum efforts for the success of the Company s business and afford them an opportunity to acquire a proprietary interest in the Company. The Plan allows the Company to
grant stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance awards or other stock-based awards to eligible employees and non-employee directors. The Plan incorporates the following prior plans: 1991 Stock
and Incentive Plan, 1998 Broad-Based Stock Incentive Plan and Non-employee Director Stock Option Plan. All outstanding stock options, restricted stock and other awards issued under the prior plans shall remain subject to the terms and conditions of
these plans under which they were issued.      As of December 31, 2008, the Company had approximately 58.7 million shares available for future grants
of share-based awards under its share-based compensation plan, including, but not limited to, incentive or non-qualified stock options, stock-settled stock appreciation rights (SARs), and up to 20.8 million of awards in restricted stock and
restricted stock units (collectively, restricted shares). The Company s existing share-based awards consist mainly of non-qualified stock options, SARs and restricted shares.         
   79   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
     Stock Options and SARs        Stock options and SARs generally vest ratably over four to six years and may be exercised up to 10 years from the date of grant. Stock option and SAR activity for the year ended December 31, 2008 is summarized in
the table below:       
    To determine compensation expense related to the Company s stock options and SARs, the fair value of each
award is estimated on the date of grant using an option-pricing model. For purposes of estimating the fair value of the Company s employee stock option and SAR grants, the Company uses a binomial model. The principal assumptions the Company
used in applying the option-pricing models were as follows:       
    The risk-free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury yields in effect at the time of grant. Expected volatilities
are based on the implied volatilities from traded options on the Company s common stock and the historical volatility of the Company s common stock. The Company uses historical data to estimate option and SAR exercises and forfeitures
within the valuation model. The expected lives of options and SARs granted represents the period of time that the awards granted are expected to be outstanding based on historical exercise patterns.      The weighted-average grant date fair value of stock options and SARs granted for 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $9 per share, $14 per share and $11 per share, respectively. The
total intrinsic value of stock options and SARs exercised during 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $244 million, $1.1 billion and $753 million, respectively.        Restricted Shares        Restricted shares generally vest ratably over two to five years. Compensation expense related to restricted shares
is determined based upon the fair value of each award on the date of grant. Restricted share activity for year ended December 31, 2008 is summarized in the table below:       
       
   80   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The weighted-average grant date fair value of restricted shares granted for 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $34 per share,
$51 per share and $56 per share, respectively. The total fair value of restricted shares vested during 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $17 million, $35 million and $35 million, respectively.        Employee Stock Purchase Plan        The Company s Employee
Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) is intended to enhance employee commitment to the goals of the Company, by providing a means of achieving stock ownership at advantageous terms to eligible employees of the Company. Eligible employees are allowed to
purchase the Company s stock at a discounted price, which is 85% of the lower market price of the Company s common stock at the beginning or at the end of the six-month purchase period. During 2008, 2007 and 2006, 2.9 million shares,
1.9 million shares and 1.9 million shares of common stock, respectively, were purchased under the ESPP. The compensation expense is included in the compensation expense amounts recognized and discussed below. At December 31, 2008,
there were 13.1 million shares of common stock available for issuance under the ESPP.        Share-Based Compensation Recognition     
  The Company recognizes compensation expense for share-based awards, including stock options, SARs and restricted shares, on a straight-line basis over the related
service period (generally the vesting period) of the award, or to an employee s eligible retirement date under the award agreement, if earlier. For 2008, 2007 and 2006 the Company recognized compensation expense related to its share-based
compensation plans of $305 million ($202 million net of tax effects), $505 million ($325 million net of tax effects) and $404 million ($259 million net of tax effects), respectively. Share-based compensation expense is recognized within Operating
Costs in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Operations. Share compensation expense for 2006 included $31 million associated with the cash settlement of stock options expiring or forfeiting during the period. At December 31, 2008,
there was $518 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to share awards that is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 1.5 years. For 2008, 2007 and 2006 the income tax benefit realized from
share-based award exercises was $106 million, $399 million and $287 million, respectively.      Included in the share-based compensation expense for the year
ended December 31, 2007 is $176 million ($112 million net of tax benefit) of expenses recorded in the first quarter of 2007 related to application of deferred compensation rules under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (Section
409A) to the Company s historical stock option practices. As part of its review of the Company s historical stock option practices, the Company determined that certain stock options granted to individuals who were nonexecutive officer
employees at the time of grant were granted with an exercise price that was lower than the closing price of the Company s common stock on the applicable accounting measurement date, subjecting these individuals to additional tax under
Section 409A. The Company elected to pay these individuals for the additional tax costs relating to such stock options exercised in 2006 and early 2007. For any outstanding stock options subject to additional tax under Section 409A that
were granted to nonexecutive officer employees, the Company increased the exercise price and committed to make cash payments to these optionholders for their vested options based on the difference between the original stock option price and the
revised increased stock option price. The payments will be made on a quarterly basis upon vesting of the applicable awards. The first payment of $110 million was made to optionholders in January 2008 for options that vested through December 31,
2007. Payments of $6 million were made to optionholders in 2008 for options that vested through October 31, 2008. Payments of $20 million were made to optionholders in January 2009 for options that vested through December 31, 2008.
Aggregate future payments will be $7 million, assuming all applicable options vest during 2009. If the modified stock options are subsequently exercised, the Company will recover these cash payments at that time from exercise proceeds at the revised
increased stock option exercise prices.         
   81   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The $176 million Section 409A charge includes $87 million of expense ($55 million net of tax benefit) for the
payment of certain optionholders  tax obligations for stock options exercised in 2006 and early 2007 and $89 million of expense ($57 million net of tax benefit) for the modification related to increasing the exercise price of unexercised stock
options granted to nonexecutive officer employees and the related cash payments. These amounts have been recorded in the corporate segment.      As further
discussed in Note 11 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company maintains a share repurchase program. The objectives of the share repurchase program are to optimize the Company s capital structure, cost of capital and return
to shareholders, as well as to offset the dilutive impact of shares issued for share-based award exercises.        Other Employee Benefit Plans   
     The Company also offers a 401(k) plan for all employees. Compensation expense related to this plan was not significant for the years 2008, 2007 and 2006.
     The Company has provided Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan benefits (SERPs), which are non-qualified defined benefit plans, for its current CEO and
its former CEO, as well as for certain nonexecutive officers under plans that were assumed in acquisitions. No additional amounts are accruing to the SERPs of the Company s current CEO and former CEO. The SERPs are non-contributory, unfunded
and provide benefits based on years of service and compensation during employment. Pension expense is determined using various actuarial methods to estimate the total benefits ultimately payable to executives, and is allocated to service periods.
The actuarial assumptions used to calculate pension costs are reviewed annually. Pension expense was not significant for the years 2008, 2007 and 2006. The total SERP liability as of December 31, 2008 was $159 million, of which $51 million was
recorded within Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities and $108 million was recorded within Other Liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The total SERP liability as of December 31, 2007 of $139 million was recorded within Other
Liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.      In addition, the Company maintains non-qualified, unfunded deferred compensation plans, which allow
certain members of senior management and executives to defer portions of their salary or bonus and receive certain Company contributions on such deferrals, subject to plan limitations. The deferrals are recorded within Long-Term Investments with an
approximately equal amount in Other Liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The total deferrals are distributable based upon termination of employment or other periods, as elected under each plan and are $182 million and $225 million as of
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.       13.    AARP       The Company provides health insurance products and services to members of AARP under a Supplemental Health Insurance Program (the Program), and separate Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D arrangements. The
products and services under the Program include supplemental Medicare benefits (AARP Medicare Supplement Insurance), hospital indemnity insurance, including insurance for individuals between 50 to 64 years of age, and other related products.
     On October 3, 2007, the Company entered into four agreements with AARP, effective January 1, 2008, that amended its existing AARP arrangements.
These agreements extended the Company s arrangements with AARP on the Program to December 31, 2017, extended the Company s arrangement with AARP on the Medicare Part D business to December 31, 2014, and gave the Company an
exclusive right to use the AARP brand on the Company s Medicare Advantage offerings until December 31, 2014, subject to certain limited exclusions.         
   82   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Under the Program, the Company is compensated for transaction processing and other services, as well as for assuming
underwriting risk. The Company is also engaged in product development activities to complement the insurance offerings. Premium revenues from the Company s portion of the Program were approximately $5.7 billion in 2008, $5.3 billion in 2007 and
$5.0 billion in 2006.      The Company s agreement with AARP on the Program provides for the maintenance of the Rate Stabilization Fund (RSF) that is held
by the Company on behalf of policyholders. Underwriting gains or losses related to the AARP Medicare Supplement Insurance business are directly recorded as an increase or decrease to the RSF. The primary components of the underwriting results
are premium revenue, medical costs, investment income, administrative expenses, member service expenses, marketing expenses and premium taxes. Underwriting gains and losses are recorded as an increase or decrease to the RSF and accrue to the overall
benefit of the AARP policyholders, unless cumulative net losses were to exceed the balance in the RSF. To the extent underwriting losses exceed the balance in the RSF, losses would be borne by the Company. Deficits may be recovered by underwriting
gains in future periods of the contract. To date, the Company has not been required to fund any underwriting deficits. The RSF balance is reported in Other Policy Liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and changes in the RSF are reported in
Medical Costs in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. In January 2008, $127 million in cash was transferred out of the RSF to an external insurance entity that offers an AARP branded age 50 to 64 comprehensive insurance product. The Company
believes the RSF balance at December 31, 2008 is sufficient to cover potential future underwriting and other risks and liabilities associated with the contract.      The effects of changes in balance sheet amounts associated with the Program accrue to the overall benefit of the AARP policyholders through the RSF balance. Accordingly, the Company does not include the effect of such
changes in its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.      Under the Company s agreement with AARP, the Company separately manages the assets that support
the Program. These assets are held at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as Assets Under Management. These assets are invested at the Company s discretion, within investment guidelines approved by the Program and are used to pay
costs associated with the Program. The Company does not guarantee any rates of investment return on these investments and upon any transfer of the Program to another entity, the Company would transfer cash in an amount equal to the fair value of
these investments at the date of transfer. Interest earnings and realized investment gains and losses on these assets accrue to the overall benefit of the AARP policyholders through the RSF and, thus, are not included in the Company s earnings.
Interest income and realized gains and losses related to assets under management are recorded as an increase to the AARP RSF and were $82 million, $108 million and $94 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.      Upon adoption of FAS 159 on January 1, 2008, the Company elected to measure the entirety of the AARP Assets Under Management on a fair value basis. The adoption
impact was not material to the Company.         
   83   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following AARP Program-related assets and liabilities were included in the Company s Consolidated Balance
Sheets at December 31:       
    At December 31, 2008, the fair value of cash, cash equivalents and investments associated with the Program,
included in Assets Under Management, and the fair value of Other Assets were classified in accordance with the fair value hierarchy as discussed in Note 5 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and were as follows:       

(a)  
  Includes Agency-backed mortgage pass-through securities.           
   84   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   At December 31, 2007, prior to the adoption of FAS 159 on January 1, 2008, the amortized cost, gross
unrealized gains and losses, and fair value of cash, cash equivalents and investments associated with the Program, included in Assets Under Management, were as follows:       

(a)  
  Includes Agency-backed mortgage pass-through securities.         14.    Fair Value of Financial Instruments       In the normal course of business, the Company invests in various financial
assets, incur various financial liabilities and enter into agreements involving derivative securities.      Fair values are disclosed for all financial
instruments for which it is practicable to estimate fair value, whether or not such values are recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Management obtains quoted market prices for these disclosures.      The carrying amounts reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheets for cash and cash equivalents, premium and other current receivables, unearned premiums, accounts
payable and accrued expenses, income taxes payable, and certain other current liabilities approximate fair value because of their short-term nature.      For a
discussion of the methods and assumptions that were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instrument see Note 5 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on Debt and Equity Securities, Note 13 to the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on AARP and Note 9 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to Interest Rate Swaps and Senior Unsecured Notes.      The carrying values and fair values of the Company s financial instruments at December 31 are as follows:       
       
   85   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    15.    Commitments and Contingencies       The Company leases facilities, computer hardware and other equipment under long-term operating leases that are noncancelable and expire on various dates through 2028.
Rent expense under all operating leases for 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $264 million, $223 million and $209 million, respectively. At December 31, 2008, future minimum annual lease payments, net of sublease income, under all noncancelable operating
leases were as follows:       
    In conjunction with the PacifiCare acquisition the Company committed to make $50 million in charitable
contributions for the benefit of California health care consumers, which has been accrued in its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company has committed to specific projects totaling approximately $30 million of the $50 million charitable commitment
at December 31, 2008, of which $21 million was paid. Additionally, the Company agreed to invest $200 million in California s health care infrastructure to further health care services to the underserved populations of the California
marketplace, of which $87 million was invested at December 31, 2008. The timing and amount of individual contributions and investments are at the Company s discretion subject to the advice and oversight of the local regulatory authorities;
however, the Company s goal is to have the investment commitment fully funded by the end of 2010. The investment commitment remains in place for 20 years after funding.      The Company contracts on an administrative services only (ASO) basis with customers who fund their own claims. The Company charges these customers administrative fees based on the expected cost of administering their
self-funded programs. In some cases, the Company provides performance guarantees related to its administrative function. If these standards are not met, the Company may be financially at risk up to a stated percentage of the contracted fee or a
stated dollar amount. Amounts accrued for performance guarantees were not material at December 31, 2008 and 2007.      At December 31, 2008, the Company
has outstanding, undrawn letters of credit with financial institutions of approximately $60 million and surety bonds outstanding with insurance companies of approximately $300 million, primarily to bond contractual performance.       Legal Matters         Legal Matters Relating to Historical Stock
Option Practices          Regulatory Inquiries.   In March 2006, the Company received an informal inquiry from the SEC relating to its
historical stock option practices. On December 19, 2006, the Company received from the SEC staff a formal order of investigation into the Company s historical stock option practices. On December 22, 2008, the Company announced it had
reached an agreement to settle the SEC s investigation. Without admitting or denying the SEC s allegations, the Company agreed to a permanent injunction against any future violations of certain  
       
   86   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 reporting, books and records and internal accounting control provisions of the federal securities laws. This settlement is subject to approval by the U.S.
District Court for the District of Minnesota.      On May 17, 2006, the Company received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of
New York requesting documents from 1999 to the date of the subpoena relating to its historical stock option practices.      On May 17, 2006, the Company
received a document request from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) seeking documents relating to its historical stock option grants and other compensation for the persons who from 2003 to May 2006 were the named executive officers in the
Company s annual proxy statements. As previously disclosed in the Company s 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company believed that compensation expense related to prior exercises of certain stock options by certain of the
Company s executive officers would no longer qualify as deductible performance-based compensation in accordance with Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m) (Section 162(m)) as a result of the revision of measurement dates that occurred as
part of the Company s review of its historical stock option practices. In December 2007, the Company reached an agreement with the IRS resolving Section 162(m) issues in connection with tax years through 2005. Pursuant to this agreement,
the Company paid $106 million in 2007 and an additional $20 million in the first quarter of 2008.      On June 6, 2006, the Company received a Civil
Investigative Demand from the Minnesota Attorney General requesting documents from January 1, 1997 to the date of the response concerning the Company s executive compensation and historical stock option practices. The Company filed an
action in Ramsey County Court, State of Minnesota, captioned  UnitedHealth Group Incorporated vs. State of Minnesota, by Lori Swanson, Attorney General , seeking a protective order, which was denied. The Company appealed the denial of the
protective order to the Minnesota Court of Appeals. On December 4, 2007, the Minnesota Court of Appeals acknowledged limitations on the Minnesota Attorney General s authority to issue a Civil Investigative Demand, but affirmed the denial
of a protective order. On February 27, 2008, the Minnesota Supreme Court declined to review the matter, and the Company has since produced relevant and responsive materials.      The Company has also received requests for documents from U.S. Congressional committees relating to its historical stock option practices and compensation of executives.      At the conclusion of any unresolved regulatory inquiries, the Company could be subject to regulatory or criminal fines or penalties as well as other sanctions or other
contingent liabilities, which could be material.        Litigation Matters.   On March 29, 2006, the first of several shareholder derivative
actions was filed against certain of the Company s current and former officers and directors in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota. The action has been consolidated with six other actions and is captioned  In re
UnitedHealth Group Incorporated Shareholder Derivative Litigation . The consolidated amended complaint is brought on behalf of the Company by several pension funds and other shareholders and names certain of the Company s current and former
officers and directors as defendants, as well as the Company as a nominal defendant. The consolidated amended complaint generally alleges that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties to the Company, were unjustly enriched, and violated the
securities laws in connection with the Company s historical stock option practices. The consolidated amended complaint seeks unspecified money damages, injunctive relief and rescission of certain options. On June 26, 2006, the
Company s Board of Directors created a Special Litigation Committee under Minnesota Statute 302A.241, consisting of two former Minnesota Supreme Court Justices, with the power to investigate the claims raised in the derivative actions and
shareholder demands, and determine whether the Company s rights and remedies should be pursued.      A consolidated derivative action, reflecting a
consolidation of two actions, is also pending in Hennepin County District Court, State of Minnesota. The consolidated complaint is captioned  In re UnitedHealth Group   
       
   87   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
  Incorporated Derivative Litigation . The action was brought by two individual shareholders and names certain of the Company s current and former
officers and directors as defendants, as well as the Company as a nominal defendant.      On December 6, 2007, the Special Litigation Committee concluded
its review of claims relating to the Company s historical stock option practices and published a report. The Special Litigation Committee reached settlement agreements on behalf of the Company with its former Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer William W. McGuire, M.D., former General Counsel David J. Lubben, and former director William G. Spears. In addition, the Special Litigation Committee concluded that all claims against all named defendants in the derivative actions,
including current and former Company officers and directors, should be dismissed. Each settlement agreement is conditioned upon final approval by the federal court and the state court after notice is provided to shareholders and dismissal of claims
in the derivative actions. If either condition is not satisfied, then that individual s settlement agreement will become null and void in its entirety and will have no force or effect. On January 2, 2008, the United States District Court
for the District of Minnesota presented a certified question to the Minnesota Supreme Court concerning the scope of a court s authority to review the settlement agreements under Minnesota law. The Minnesota Supreme Court answered that question
on August 14, 2008, holding that the Minnesota business judgment rule requires a court to defer to a Special Litigation Committee s decision to settle a shareholder derivative suit if the members of the Special Litigation
Committee were disinterested and independent and the investigative procedures were adequate and pursued in good faith. On October 16, 2008, the Special Litigation Committee filed a motion with the federal court for preliminary approval of
its recommended disposition of the derivative claims and for dismissal of those claims. On December 19, 2008, the federal and state courts issued a joint order holding that the Special Litigation Committee was independent and had acted in good
faith and granting preliminary approval of the proposed settlements. Notice has been provided to class members, and a final settlement approval hearing is scheduled for February 13, 2009.      In connection with the departure of Dr. McGuire, the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota issued an Order on November 29, 2006,
preliminarily enjoining Dr. McGuire from exercising any Company stock options and preliminarily enjoining the Company and Dr. McGuire from taking any action with respect to Dr. McGuire s employment agreement and related
agreements. The original Order has been extended numerous times. On September 22, 2008, the federal court issued an order releasing the injunction as to some of those stock options. On December 12, 2008, the federal court issued an order
permitting Dr. McGuire to exercise all of the options he retained under the terms of the derivative and PSLRA (discussed below) settlement agreements.      On May 5, 2006, the first of seven putative class actions alleging a violation of the federal securities laws was brought by an individual shareholder against certain of the Company s current and former officers and directors in
the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota. On December 8, 2006, a consolidated amended complaint was filed consolidating the actions into a single action. The action is captioned  In re UnitedHealth Group Incorporated
PSLRA Litigation . The action was brought by lead plaintiff California Public Employees Retirement System (CalPERS) against the Company and certain of its current and former officers and directors. The consolidated amended complaint alleges that
the defendants, in connection with the same alleged course of conduct identified in the shareholder derivative actions described above, made misrepresentations and omissions during the period between January 20, 2005 and May 17, 2006, in
press releases and public filings that artificially inflated the price of the Company s common stock. The consolidated amended complaint also asserts that during the class period, certain defendants sold shares of the Company s common
stock while in possession of material, non-public information concerning the matters set forth in the complaint. The consolidated amended complaint alleges claims under Sections 10(b), 14(a), 20(a) and 20A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
Sections 11 and 15 of the 1933 Act. On March 18, 2008, the court granted plaintiffs  motion for class certification. On July 2, 2008, the Company announced that it had reached an agreement in principle with the lead plaintiff  
       
   88   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 CalPERS and plaintiff class representative Alaska Plumbing and Pipefitting Industry Pension Trust, on behalf of themselves and members of the class, to
settle the lawsuit. The proposed settlement will fully resolve all claims against the Company, all current officers and directors of the Company named in the lawsuit, and certain former officers and directors of the Company named in the lawsuit. No
parties admit any wrongdoing as part of the proposed settlement. Under the terms of the proposed settlement, the Company has paid $895 million into a settlement fund for the benefit of class members. In addition to the payment to the settlement
fund, the Company will also supplement the substantial changes it has already implemented in its corporate governance policies with additional changes and enhancements. The proposed settlement, which was approved by the boards of directors of
CalPERS and the Company, is subject to final court approval. Further, the Company has the right to terminate the settlement if class members representing more than a specified amount of alleged securities losses elect to opt out of the settlement.
Pursuant to the terms of the proposed settlement, on November 24, 2008, lead counsel for the plaintiffs filed with the court a stipulation of settlement entered into by all parties to the litigation. On December 18, 2008, the court granted
preliminary approval of the stipulation of settlement. Notice has been provided to class members, and a final settlement approval hearing is scheduled for March 16, 2009.      On June 6, 2006, a purported class action captioned  Zilhaver v. UnitedHealth Group Incorporated  was filed against the Company and certain of its current and former officers and directors in the United
States District Court for the District of Minnesota. This action alleges that the fiduciaries to the Company-sponsored 401(k) plan violated the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) by allowing the plan to continue to hold Company
stock. The plaintiffs filed a motion to certify a class consisting of certain participants in the Company s 401(k) plan. The defendants moved to dismiss the action on June 22, 2007. The court denied the defendants  motion to dismiss
and for partial summary judgment on June 30, 2008. On July 2, 2008, the Company announced it had reached an agreement in principle to resolve this lawsuit. Under the terms of the proposed settlement, the Company has accrued
$17 million to be paid into a settlement fund for the benefit of class members, most of which will be paid by the Company s insurance carriers. The proposed settlement will fully resolve all claims against the Company and all of the
individual defendants in the action. No parties admit any wrongdoing as part of the proposed settlement. The proposed settlement is subject to final court approval. On January 8, 2009, the court granted preliminary approval of the proposed
settlement.      On August 28, 2006, the Company received a purported notice of default from persons claiming to hold its 5.8% Senior Unsecured Notes due
March 15, 2036, alleging a violation of the indenture governing those debt securities. This followed the Company s announcement that the Company would delay filing its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006.
On October 25, 2006, the Company filed an action in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota, captioned  UnitedHealth Group Incorporated v. Cede   Co. and the Bank of New York , seeking a declaratory judgment
that the Company was not in default under the terms of the indenture. On or about November 2, 2006, the Company received a purported notice of acceleration from the same holders that purports to declare an acceleration of the Company s
5.8% Senior Unsecured Notes due March 15, 2036, as a result of the Company s failure to timely file its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006. On March 10, 2008, the court granted summary judgment for
the Company and dismissed the bondholders  counterclaims, holding that the delay in filing the Company s Form 10-Q did not constitute a default under the Indenture. The bondholders appealed the ruling to the Eighth Circuit Court of
Appeals. On December 1, 2008, the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment in favor of the Company.      In addition, the Company may be
subject to additional litigation or other proceedings or actions arising out of the Company s historical stock option practices and the related restatement of its historical Consolidated Financial statements. Litigation and any potential
regulatory proceeding or action may be time consuming, expensive and  
       
   89   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 distracting from the conduct of the Company s business. The adverse resolution of any specific lawsuit or any potential regulatory proceeding or action
could have a material adverse effect on the Company s business, financial condition and results of operations.      Other adjustments for non-operating
cash charges may be required in connection with the resolution of stock option-related matters arising under litigation and regulatory reviews by the SEC, IRS, U.S. Attorney, U.S. Congressional committees and Minnesota Attorney General, the amount
and timing of which are uncertain but which could be material.        Other Legal Matters        Because of the nature of its businesses, the Company is frequently made party to a variety of legal actions related to the design and management of its service offerings.
The Company records liabilities for its estimates of probable costs resulting from these matters. These matters include, but are not limited to, claims relating to health care benefits coverage, medical malpractice actions, contract disputes and
claims related to disclosure of certain business practices.        MDL Litigation.   Beginning in 1999, a series of class action lawsuits were filed
against the Company by health care providers alleging various claims relating to the Company s reimbursement practices, including alleged violations of the Racketeer Influenced Corrupt Organization Act (RICO) and state prompt payment laws and
breach of contract claims. Many of these lawsuits were consolidated in a multi-district litigation in the United States District Court for the Southern District Court of Florida (MDL). In the lead MDL lawsuit, the court certified a class of health
care providers for certain of the RICO claims. In 2006, the trial court dismissed all of the claims against the Company in the lead MDL lawsuit, and the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals later affirmed that dismissal, leaving eleven related lawsuits
that had been stayed during the litigation of the lead MDL lawsuit. In August 2008, the trial court, applying its rulings in the lead MDL lawsuit, dismissed seven of the 11 related lawsuits, and all but one claim in an eighth lawsuit. The plaintiffs
have appealed these dismissals to the Eleventh Circuit. The trial court ordered the final claim in the eighth lawsuit to arbitration. In December 2008, at the plaintiffs  request, the trial court dismissed without prejudice one of the three
remaining lawsuits. In late 2008, a federal magistrate judge recommended that the trial court deny the plaintiffs  motions to remand to state court the remaining two lawsuits. On January 23, 2009, the trial court adopted this
recommendation with respect to one of the lawsuits. The trial court has not yet issued an order with respect to the final lawsuit. In addition, the Company is party to a number of arbitrations in various jurisdictions involving similar claims. The
Company is vigorously defending against the remaining claims in these cases.        AMA Litigation.   On March 15, 2000, a group of plaintiffs
including the American Medical Association (AMA) filed a lawsuit against the Company in state court in New York, which was removed to federal court. The complaint and subsequent amended complaints asserted antitrust claims and claims based on ERISA,
as well as breach of contract and the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, deceptive acts and practices, and trade libel in connection with the calculation of reasonable and customary reimbursement rates for non-network health care
providers by the Company s affiliates. On January 14, 2009, after almost nine years of litigation and many rulings from the court on various motions, the parties announced an agreement to settle the lawsuit, along with a similar case filed
in 2008 in federal court in New Jersey. Under the terms of the proposed settlement, the Company and its affiliated entities will be released from claims relating to their out-of-network reimbursement policies from March 15, 1994 through the
date of final court approval of the settlement. The Company will pay a total of $350 million to fund the settlement for health plan members and out-of-network providers in connection with out-of-network procedures performed since March 15,
1994. The agreement contains no admission of wrongdoing. The proposed settlement is subject to preliminary and final court approval. In addition, the  
       
   90   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 Company has the right to terminate the settlement in the event that a certain number of class members elect to opt-out of the settlement.        NYAG Investigation.   On February 13, 2008, the Office of the Attorney General of the State of New York (NYAG) announced that it was conducting an
industry-wide investigation into out-of-network provider reimbursement practices of health insurers, including the Company, and served the Company with a notice of intent to initiate litigation. On January 13, 2009, the Company announced it had
reached an agreement with the NYAG regarding the investigation. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company will pay $50 million to fund a not-for-profit entity to develop and own a new, independent database product to replace the Prevailing
Health Charges System (PHCS) and Medical Data Research (MDR) database products owned by the Company s subsidiary Ingenix, Inc. Both products are used by a number of health plans and employers as tools that help determine the amount to reimburse
members who receive physician services outside their managed care networks. When the new database product is ready, the Company will cease using the PHCS and MDR databases and will use the new database for a period of at least five years in
connection with out-of-network reimbursement in those benefit plans that employ a reasonable and customary standard for out of network reimbursements.        Shareholder Derivative Litigation.     On January 16, 2009, a shareholder derivative action was filed against certain of the Company s current and former directors and officers and Company subsidiary PacifiCare
Health Systems (PacifiCare) in the Orange County, California, Superior Court. The complaint generally alleges that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties to the Company and were unjustly enriched by failing to prevent and remedy certain
alleged claims processing and payment regulatory violations, including violations allegedly associated with the integration of PacifiCare. The complaint seeks unspecified money damages, injunctive relief, disgorgement of profits, and attorneys 
fees. The Company is vigorously defending this lawsuit.        Government Regulation        The Company s business is regulated at federal, state, local and international levels. The laws and rules governing the Company s business and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent
change. Broad latitude is given to the agencies administering those regulations. State legislatures and Congress continue to focus on health care issues as the subject of proposed legislation. Existing or future laws and rules could force us to
change how the Company does business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase the Company s health care and administrative costs and capital requirements, and increase the Company s liability in federal and state courts for
coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other actions. Further, the Company must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of its products.      The Company has been and is currently involved in various governmental investigations, audits and reviews. These include routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews by CMS, state insurance and
health and welfare departments, state attorneys general, the Office of the Inspector General, the Office of Personnel Management, the Office of Civil Rights, U.S. Congressional committees, the U.S. Department of Justice, U.S. Attorneys, the SEC, the
IRS, the U.S. Department of Labor and other governmental authorities.      For example, in 2007, the California Department of Insurance examined the
Company s PacifiCare health insurance plan in California. The examination findings related to claims processing accuracy and timeliness; accurate and timely interest payments; timely implementation of provider contracts; timely, accurate
provider dispute resolution; and other related matters. To date, the California Department of Insurance has not levied a financial penalty related to its findings. The Company is working closely with the department to resolve any outstanding issues
arising from the findings of its examination.         
   91   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Other examples of audits and investigations include an investigation by the U.S. Department of Labor of the
Company s administration of its employee benefit plans with respect to ERISA compliance and audits of the Company s Medicare health plans to validate the coding practices of and supporting documentation maintained by its care providers.
     Such government actions can result in assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including loss of licensure or
exclusion from participation in government programs and could have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial results. The coding audits may result in retrospective or prospective adjustments to payments made to health plans pursuant
to CMS Medicare contracts.       16.    Segment Financial Information       Factors used in determining the Company s reporting segments include the nature of operating activities, economic characteristics, existence of separate senior management teams and the type of information
presented to the Company s chief operating decision-maker to evaluate its results of operations.      The Company s accounting policies for reporting
segment operations are the same as those described in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (see Note 2 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Transactions between reporting segments principally consist of sales of pharmacy
benefit products and services to Health Care Services by Prescription Solutions, certain product offerings sold to Health Care Services customers by OptumHealth and sales of medical benefits cost, quality and utilization data and predictive modeling
to Health Care Services by Ingenix. These transactions are recorded at management s estimate of fair value. Intersegment transactions are eliminated in consolidation. Assets and liabilities that are jointly used are assigned to each reporting
segment using estimates of pro-rata usage. Cash and investments are assigned such that each reporting segment has at least minimum specified levels of regulatory capital or working capital for non-regulated businesses.      Substantially all of the Company s assets are held and operations are conducted in the United States. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States, reporting segments with similar economic characteristics may be combined. The financial results of UnitedHealthcare, Ovations and AmeriChoice have been aggregated in the Health Care Services segment column in the following tables
because these businesses have similar economic characteristics and have similar products and services, types of customers, distribution methods and operational processes, and operate in a similar regulatory environment. These businesses also share
significant common assets, including the Company s contracted networks of physicians, health care professionals, hospitals and other facilities, information technology infrastructure and other resources.      Premium revenues from CMS were 25% of the Company s total consolidated revenues for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
        
   92   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table presents reporting segment financial information as of and for the years ended December 31:

93   

Table of Contents  

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    17.    Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)       The following tables present selected quarterly financial information for all quarters of 2008 and 2007.       
       
   94   

Table of Contents  

    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and subsidiaries:      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements
of operations, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.      We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated
February 11, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting.       
       
   95   

Table of Contents  

    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and subsidiaries:      We have audited the consolidated financial statements of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2008, and the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, and have issued our reports thereon dated February 11, 2009; such consolidated financial statements and reports are
included in your 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders and are incorporated herein by reference. Our audits also included the consolidated financial statement schedule of the Company listed in Item 15. This consolidated financial statement
schedule is the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.       
       
   96   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 9.   
   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE         None       

ITEM 9A.   
   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES           EVALUATION OF DISCLOSURE CONTROLS
AND PROCEDURES        The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is (i) recorded, processed, summarized and reported
within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms; and (ii) accumulated and communicated to the Company s management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosure.      In connection with the filing of this Form 10-K, management evaluated, under the supervision and with the
participation of the Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2008. Based upon that evaluation,
the Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level as of December 31, 2008.        CHANGES IN INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING        There
have been no changes in the Company s internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2008 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control
over financial reporting.         
   97   

Table of Contents  

    Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting as of December 31, 2008  
     The Company s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company s internal control system is designed to provide reasonable assurance to our management and board of directors regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of consolidated financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The Company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
and directors of the Company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated
financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
     Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. In making this
assessment, we used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework . Based on our assessment and those criteria, we believe that, as of
December 31, 2008, the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting.      Management excluded from its assessment of the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting the internal controls of Sierra Health Services, Inc. (Sierra) and Unison Health Plans (Unison) which were acquired by the Company on February 25, 2008 and
May 30, 2008, respectively, and are included in the Company s consolidated financial statements for the period from the dates of acquisition through year end. Such exclusion was in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission
guidance that an assessment of a recently acquired business may be omitted in management s report on internal controls over financial reporting in the year of acquisition. Net and total assets of Sierra represented approximately 1% and 6%,
respectively, of the Company s consolidated net and total assets as of December 31, 2008, and approximately 2% of consolidated revenues and approximately 4% of net earnings for the year then ended. Net and total assets of Unison
represented approximately 0% and 2%, respectively, of the Company s consolidated net and total assets as of December 31, 2008, and approximately 1% of consolidated revenue and net earnings for the year then ended.      Changes to certain processes, information technology systems, and other components of internal control resulting from the acquisition of Sierra and Unison may occur and
will be evaluated by management as such integration activities are implemented.         
   98   

Table of Contents  

   The Company s independent registered public accounting firm has audited the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, as stated in the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, appearing under Item 9A, which expresses an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal
controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008.       

/ S /    STEPHEN J.
HEMSLEY            
 
     Stephen J. Hemsley       President and Chief Executive Officer     

/ S /    GEORGE L. MIKAN
III            
 
     George L. Mikan III       Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer     

/ S /    ERIC S.
RANGEN            
 
     Eric S. Rangen       Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer     
    February 11, 2009       New York Stock Exchange Certification       Pursuant to
Section 303A.12(a) of the NYSE listed company manual, the Company submitted an unqualified certification of its Chief Executive Officer to the NYSE in 2008. We have also filed, as exhibits to this Form 10-K, the Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer Certifications required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.         
   99   

Table of Contents  

    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and subsidiaries:      We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in  Internal
Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. As described in Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting as of December 31, 2008,
management excluded from its assessment the internal control over financial reporting at Sierra Health Services, Inc. (Sierra) and Unison Health Plans (Unison), which were acquired on February 25, 2008 and May 30, 2008, respectively, and
whose financial statements collectively constitute approximately 1% and 8% of net and total assets, respectively, approximately 3% of revenues, and approximately 5% of net income of the consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year
ended December 31, 2008. Accordingly, our audit did not include the internal control over financial reporting at Sierra or Unison. The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting as of December 31, 2008. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness
of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal
financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of consolidated financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.
     Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override
of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are
subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control  
Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.         
   100   

Table of Contents  

   We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),
the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 of the Company and our report dated February 11, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements and financial statement
schedules.       
       
   101   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 9B.   
   OTHER INFORMATION         None.       PART III        

ITEM 10.   
   DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE         Pursuant to
General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K and Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K, information regarding our executive officers is provided in Item 1 of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption  Executive
Officers of the Registrant.       The remaining information required by Items 401, 405, 406 and 407(c)(3), (d)(4) and (d)(5) of Regulation S-K will be
included under the headings  Corporate Governance,   Election of Directors  and  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in our definitive proxy statement for our Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held June 2, 2009, and such required information is incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 11.   
   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION         The information required by Items 402,
407(e)(4) and (e)(5) of Regulation S-K will be included under the headings  Executive Compensation  and  Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  in our definitive proxy statement for our Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held June 2, 2009, and such required information is incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 12.   
   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS          Equity Compensation Plan Information       The following table sets forth certain information, as of
December 31, 2008, concerning shares of common stock authorized for issuance under all of our equity compensation plans.       

(1)  
  Consists of the UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended, and the UnitedHealth Group 1993 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended.
Includes 17,909,861 options to acquire shares of common stock that were originally issued under the United HealthCare Corporation 1998 Broad-Based Stock Incentive Plan, as amended, which was not approved by the Company s shareholders, but
the shares issuable under the 1998 Broad-Based Stock Incentive Plan were subsequently included in the number of shares approved by the Company s shareholders when approving the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan.     

(2)  
    Excludes 1,203,995 shares underlying stock options assumed by us in connection with our acquisition of the companies under whose plans the options originally were
granted. These options have a weighted-average  
          
   102   

Table of Contents  

exercise price of $22.96 and an average remaining term of approximately 3.5 years. The options are administered pursuant to the terms of the plan under which
the option originally was granted. No future awards will be granted under these acquired plans.      

(4)  
  Includes 13,054,400 shares of common stock available for future issuance under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan as of December 31, 2008, and 58,731,189 shares available
under the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan as of December 31, 2008. Shares available under the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan may become the subject of future awards in the form of stock options, SARs, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance
awards and other stock-based awards, except that only 20,795,314 of these shares are available for future grants of awards other than stock options or SARs.        The information required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K will be included under the heading  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  in our definitive proxy statement for our Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 2, 2009, and such required information is incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 13.   
   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE         The information required by Items 404 and 407(a) of Regulation S-K will be included under the headings  Certain Relationships and Transactions  and  Corporate Governance  in our definitive proxy statement for the Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 2, 2009, and such required information is incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 14.   
   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES         The information required by
Item 9(e) of Schedule 14A will be included under the heading  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  in our definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 2, 2009, and such required
information is incorporated herein by reference.         
   103   

Table of Contents  

    PART IV        

ITEM 15.   
   EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES          

(a)  
  1 . Financial Statements          The financial statements are included
under Item 8 of this report:      Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.      Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2008 and 2007.      Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders  Equity for the year ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.      Consolidated Statements
of Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.      Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.      2 . Financial
Statement Schedules        The following financial statement schedule of the Company is included in Item 15(c):      Schedule I   Condensed Financial Information of Registrant (Parent Company Only).      All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulations of the SEC are not required under the related instructions, are
inapplicable, or the required information is included in the consolidated financial statements, and therefore have been omitted.      3.  Exhibits** 

3.1  
      
  Third Restated Articles of Incorporation of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 29, 2007)

3.2  
      
  Third Amended and Restated Bylaws of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 29,
2007)   

4.1  
      
  Senior Indenture, dated as of November 15, 1998, between United HealthCare Corporation and The Bank of New York (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company s Registration
Statement on Form S-3/A, SEC File Number 333-66013, filed on January 11, 1999)   

4.2  
      
  Amendment, dated as of November 6, 2000, to Senior Indenture, dated as of November 15, 1998, between the UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and The Bank of New York (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.1 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2001)   

4.3  
      
  Instrument of Resignation, Appointment and Acceptance of Trustee, dated January 8, 2007, pursuant to the Senior Indenture, dated November 15, 1988, amended November 6, 2000, among UnitedHealth
Group Incorporated, The Bank of New York and Wilmington Trust Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007)   

4.4  
      
  Indenture, dated as of February 4, 2008, between UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and U.S. Bank National Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company s
Registration Statement on Form S-3, SEC File Number 333-149031, filed on February 4, 2008)   
       
   104   

Table of Contents  

105   

Table of Contents  

*10.20  
      
  Agreement for Supplemental Executive Retirement Pay, effective April 1, 2004, between UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Stephen J. Hemsley (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the
Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004)   

*10.21  
      
  Amendment to Agreement for Supplemental Executive Retirement Pay, dated as of November 7, 2006, between UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Stephen J. Hemsley (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit A to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 7, 2006)   

*10.22  
      
  Amendment to Employment Agreement and Agreement for Supplemental Executive Retirement Pay, effective as of December 31, 2008, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Stephen J. Hemsley

*10.23  
      
  Letter Agreement, effective as of February 19, 2008, by and between UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Stephen J. Hemsley (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the Company s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007)   

*10.24  
      
  Employment Agreement, effective as of November 7, 2006, by and between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and George L. Mikan III (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 30, 2007)   

*10.25  
      
  Amendment to Employment Agreement, effective as of December 31, 2008, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and George L. Mikan III   

*10.26  
      
  Employment Agreement, dated as of April 10, 2007, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and William A. Munsell (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007)   

*10.27  
      
  Amendment to Employment Agreement, effective as of December 31, 2008, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and William A. Munsell   

*10.28  
      
  Employment Agreement, dated as of December 15, 2006, by and between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Eric S. Rangen (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K dated December 15, 2006)   

*10.29  
      
  Amendment to Employment Agreement, effective as of December 31, 2008, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Eric S. Rangen   

*10.30  
      
  Employment Agreement, effective as of May 28, 2007, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Thomas L. Strickland (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007)   

*10.31  
      
  Amendment to Employment Agreement, effective as of December 31, 2008, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Thomas L. Strickland   

*10.32  
      
  Employment Agreement, effective as of June 29, 2007, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Lori Sweere (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the Company s Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007)   

*10.33  
      
  Amendment to Employment Agreement, effective as of December 31, 2008, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Lori Sweere   

*10.34  
      
  Employment Agreement, effective as of April 12, 2007, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Anthony Welters (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28 to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007)   

*10.35  
      
  Amendment to Employment Agreement, effective as of December 31, 2008, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Anthony Welters   
       
   106   

Table of Contents  

*10.36  
      
  Employment Agreement, effective as of December 1, 2006, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and David S. Wichmann (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008)   

*10.37  
      
  Amendment to Employment Agreement, effective as of December 31, 2008, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and David S. Wichmann   

*10.38  
      
  Employment Agreement, effective as of May 5, 2008, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Gail K. Boudreaux (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008)   

*10.39  
      
  Amendment to Employment Agreement, effective as of December 31, 2008, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Gail K. Boudreaux   

*10.40  
      
  Employment Agreement, effective as of January 29, 2009, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Larry C. Renfro   

11.1  
      
  Statement regarding computation of per share earnings (incorporated by reference to the information contained under the heading  Net Earnings Per Common Share  in Note 2 to the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8)   

12.1  
      
  Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges   

21.1  
      
  Subsidiaries of the Company   

23.1  
      
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

24.1  
      
  Power of Attorney   

31.1  
      
  Certifications pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

32.1  
      
  Certifications pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

99.1  
      
  Stipulation of Settlement, dated as of November 12, 2008, by and among California Public Employees  Retirement System, on behalf of itself and each of the class members, UnitedHealth
Group Incorporated and certain individual defendants.   

99.2  
      
  Settlement Agreement, dated as of January 14, 2009, by and among United HealthCare Corporation, n/k/a UnitedHealth Group, UnitedHealthcare Insurance Company, UnitedHealthcare Insurance Company
of New York, Inc., UnitedHealthcare of the Midwest, Inc., United HealthCare Services, Inc., United HealthCare Services of Minnesota, Inc., United HealthCare Services Corporation, Ingenix, Inc., Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, American Airlines,
Inc., Oxford Health Plans, Inc., Oxford Health Plans LLC, Oxford Health Plans (NJ), Inc., Oxford Health Plans (NY), Inc., and Oxford Health Insurance, together with each of their subsidiaries and affiliates, and Settling Plaintiffs, through their
respective counsel.   

*  
  Denotes management contracts and compensation plans in which certain directors and named executive officers participate and which are being filed pursuant to
Item 601(b)(10)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K.     

**  
  Pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K, copies of instruments defining the rights of certain holders of long-term debt are not filed. The Company will furnish copies
thereof to the SEC upon request.         

(c)  
  Financial Statement Schedule        Schedule I   Condensed
Financial Information of Registrant (Parent Company Only).         
   107   

Table of Contents  

    Schedule I        Condensed Financial Information of Registrant        (Parent Company Only)        UnitedHealth Group        Condensed Balance
Sheets        
    See Notes to the Condensed Financial Statements of Registrant.         
   108   

Table of Contents  

    Schedule I        Condensed Financial Information of Registrant        (Parent Company Only)        UnitedHealth Group        Condensed
Statements of Operations        
            See Notes to the Condensed Financial Statements of Registrant.         
   109   

Table of Contents  

    Schedule I        Condensed Financial Information of Registrant        (Parent Company Only)        UnitedHealth Group        Condensed
Statements of Cash Flows        
    See Notes to the Condensed Financial Statements of Registrant.         
   110   

Table of Contents  

    Schedule I        Condensed Financial Information of Registrant        (Parent Company Only)        UnitedHealth Group        Notes to
Condensed Financial Statements        For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006        1.    Basis of Presentation       UnitedHealth
Group s parent company financial information has been derived from its consolidated financial statements and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. The accounting policies for the
registrant are the same as those described in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Note 2 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       2.    Subsidiary Transactions         Investment in Subsidiaries.   UnitedHealth Group s investment in
subsidiaries is stated at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings of subsidiaries.        Dividends.   Cash dividends received from subsidiaries
and included in Cash Flows from Operating Activities in the Condensed Statements of Cash Flows were $1.8 billion, $3.8 billion and $2.0 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.       3.    Commercial Paper and Long-Term Debt       Further discussion of maturities of commercial paper
and long-term debt can be found in Note 9 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       4.    Commitments and Contingencies
      Operating costs for 2008 include $882 million for the proposed settlements of two class action lawsuits related to the Company s historical stock
option practices and related legal costs, net of expected insurance proceeds, and $350 million for the settlement of class action litigation related to reimbursement for out-of-network medical services. For detail on the proposed settlements and
other commitments and contingencies, see Note 15 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       5.    Acquisitions
      See Note 3 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of acquisitions.         
   111   

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
     Dated: February 11, 2009        

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INCORPORATED   

By   
     
    / S /    STEPHEN J. HEMSLEY    

Stephen J. Hemsley       President and Chief Executive Officer     
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by
the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

Signature    
      
     Title    
     
     Date     

/ S /    STEPHEN J. HEMSLEY      Stephen J. Hemsley    
      
    Director, President and     Chief Executive Officer     (principal executive officer)   
     
  February 11, 2009   

/ S /    GEORGE L. MIKAN III      George L. Mikan III    
      
    Executive Vice President and     Chief Financial Officer     (principal financial officer)   
     
  February 11, 2009   

/ S /    ERIC S. RANGEN      Eric S. Rangen    
      
    Senior Vice President and     Chief Accounting Officer     (principal accounting officer)   
     
  February 11, 2009   

*      William C. Ballard, Jr.    
      
  Director  
     
  February 11, 2009   

*      Richard T. Burke    
      
  Director  
     
  February 11, 2009   

*      Robert J. Darretta    
      
  Director  
     
  February 11, 2009   

*      Michele J. Hooper    
      
  Director  
     
  February 11, 2009   

*      Douglas W. Leatherdale    
      
  Director  
     
  February 11, 2009   

*      Glenn M. Renwick    
      
  Director  
     
  February 11, 2009   

Kenneth I. Shine    
      
  Director  

*      Gail R. Wilensky    
      
  Director  
     
  February 11, 2009   

*By  
     
    / S /    CHRISTOPHER J. WALSH    

Christopher J. Walsh,       As Attorney-in-Fact     
       
   112   

Table of Contents  

       EXHIBIT INDEX         
       
   113   

Table of Contents  

*10.10  
      
  Form of Agreement for Stock Appreciation Rights Award to Executives under the Company s 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended on February 2, 2009   

*10.11  
      
  Form of Agreement for Performance-based Restricted Stock Unit Award to Executives under the Company s 2002 Stock Incentive Plan   

*10.12  
      
  Amended and Restated UnitedHealth Group Incorporated Executive Incentive Plan (2009 Statement), effective as of December 31, 2008   

*10.13  
      
  Amended and Restated UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2008 Executive Incentive Plan, effective as of December 31, 2008   

*10.14  
      
  UnitedHealth Group Executive Savings Plan (2004 Statement) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) of the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003)

*10.15  
      
  First Amendment to UnitedHealth Group Executive Savings Plan (2004 Statement) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 31, 2006)

*10.16  
      
  Second Amendment to UnitedHealth Group Executive Savings Plan (2004 Statement) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2007)   

*10.17  
      
  Third Amendment to UnitedHealth Group Executive Savings Plan (2004 Statement)   

*10.18  
      
  UnitedHealth Group Directors  Compensation Deferral Plan (2009 Statement)   

*10.19  
      
  Employment Agreement, dated as of November 7, 2006, between UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Stephen J. Hemsley (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current Report
on Form 8-K dated November 7, 2006)   

*10.20  
      
  Agreement for Supplemental Executive Retirement Pay, effective April 1, 2004, between UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Stephen J. Hemsley (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the
Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004)   

*10.21  
      
  Amendment to Agreement for Supplemental Executive Retirement Pay, dated as of November 7, 2006, between UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Stephen J. Hemsley (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit A to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 7, 2006)   

*10.22  
      
  Amendment to Employment Agreement and Agreement for Supplemental Executive Retirement Pay, effective as of December 31, 2008, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Stephen J. Hemsley

*10.23  
      
  Letter Agreement, effective as of February 19, 2008, by and between UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Stephen J. Hemsley (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the Company s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007)   

*10.24  
      
  Employment Agreement, effective as of November 7, 2006, by and between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and George L. Mikan III (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 30, 2007)   

*10.25  
      
  Amendment to Employment Agreement, effective as of December 31, 2008, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and George L. Mikan III   

*10.26  
      
  Employment Agreement, dated as of April 10, 2007, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and William A. Munsell (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007)   

*10.27  
      
  Amendment to Employment Agreement, effective as of December 31, 2008, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and William A. Munsell   
       
   114   

Table of Contents  

*10.28  
      
  Employment Agreement, dated as of December 15, 2006, by and between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Eric S. Rangen (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K dated December 15, 2006)   

*10.29  
      
  Amendment to Employment Agreement, effective as of December 31, 2008, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Eric S. Rangen   

*10.30  
      
  Employment Agreement, effective as of May 28, 2007, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Thomas L. Strickland (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007)   

*10.31  
      
  Amendment to Employment Agreement, effective as of December 31, 2008, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Thomas L. Strickland   

*10.32  
      
  Employment Agreement, effective as of June 29, 2007, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Lori Sweere (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the Company s Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007)   

*10.33  
      
  Amendment to Employment Agreement, effective as of December 31, 2008, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Lori Sweere   

*10.34  
      
  Employment Agreement, effective as of April 12, 2007, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Anthony Welters (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28 to the Company s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007)   

*10.35  
      
  Amendment to Employment Agreement, effective as of December 31, 2008, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Anthony Welters   

*10.36  
      
  Employment Agreement, effective as of December 1, 2006, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and David S. Wichmann (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008)   

*10.37  
      
  Amendment to Employment Agreement, effective as of December 31, 2008, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and David S. Wichmann   

*10.38  
      
  Employment Agreement, effective as of May 5, 2008, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Gail K. Boudreaux (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008)   

*10.39  
      
  Amendment to Employment Agreement, effective as of December 31, 2008, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Gail K. Boudreaux   

*10.40  
      
  Employment Agreement, effective as of January 29, 2009, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Larry C. Renfro   

11.1  
      
  Statement regarding computation of per share earnings (incorporated by reference to the information contained under the heading  Net Earnings Per Common Share  in Note 2 to the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8)   

12.1  
      
  Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges   

21.1  
      
  Subsidiaries of the Company   

23.1  
      
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

24.1  
      
  Power of Attorney   

31.1  
      
  Certifications pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

32.1  
      
  Certifications pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   
       
   115   

Table of Contents  

99.1  
      
  Stipulation of Settlement, dated as of November 12, 2008, by and among California Public Employees  Retirement System, on behalf of itself and each of the class members, UnitedHealth
Group Incorporated and certain individual defendants.   

99.2  
      
  Settlement Agreement, dated as of January 14, 2009, by and among United HealthCare Corporation, n/k/a UnitedHealth Group, UnitedHealthcare Insurance Company, UnitedHealthcare Insurance Company
of New York, Inc., UnitedHealthcare of the Midwest, Inc., United HealthCare Services, Inc., United HealthCare Services of Minnesota, Inc., United HealthCare Services Corporation, Ingenix, Inc., Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, American Airlines,
Inc., Oxford Health Plans, Inc., Oxford Health Plans LLC, Oxford Health Plans (NJ), Inc., Oxford Health Plans (NY), Inc., and Oxford Health Insurance, together with each of their subsidiaries and affiliates, and Settling Plaintiffs, through their
respective counsel.   

*  
  Denotes management contracts and compensation plans in which certain directors and named executive officers participate and which are being filed pursuant to
Item 601(b)(10)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K.     

**  
  Pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K, copies of instruments defining the rights of certain holders of long-term debt are not filed. The Company will furnish copies
thereof to the SEC upon request.           
   116   

<EX-10.2>
 2
 dex102.htm
 AMENDMENT TO THE UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INCORPORATED 2002 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

Amendment to the UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan 

Exhibit 10.2        AMENDMENT TO THE        UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INCORPORATED        2002 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN        WHEREAS,
 UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the  Company ) maintains the UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan        WHEREAS,  Section 7(a) of the Plan permits the Board of Directors to amend the Plan at any time; and       WHEREAS , the Company wishes to amend the terms of the Plan, effective as of December 31, 2008, to comply with the final regulations for Internal Revenue Code 409A.       NOW THEREFORE,  the Plan is amended, effective December 31, 2008, by adding the new Section 9(k) to read as follows:  (k)
 Section 409A Requirements . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan or any Award agreement, the following provisions shall apply to any payments and benefits otherwise payable to or provided to a Participant under this Plan
and any Award:      (i) For purposes of Code Section 409A, each  payment  (as defined by Code Section 409A)
made under this Plan or an Award shall be considered a  separate payment.  In addition, for purposes of Code Section 409A, payments shall be deemed exempt from the definition of deferred compensation under Code Section 409A to
the fullest extent possible under the  short-term deferral  exemption of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4).      (ii) If the Participant is a  specified employee  (within the meaning of Section 409A and determined pursuant to procedures adopted by the Company) at the time of Participant s  separation from service  (as
defined in Section 409A of the Code and Treasury Regulations Section 1.409A-1(h) without regard to the optional alternative definitions available thereunder) and any amount that would be paid to Executive during the six-month period
following such separation from service constitutes a deferral of compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A), such amount shall not be paid to the Participant until the later of (i) six months after the date of Participant s
separation from service, and (ii) the payment date or commencement date specified in the Plan for such payment(s). On the first regular payroll date following the expiration of such six-month period (or if Participant dies during the 6-month
period, the first payroll date following the death), any payments that were delayed pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be paid to Participant in a single lump sum and thereafter all payments shall be made as if there had been no such delay.
     (iii) It is intended that any amounts payable under this Plan shall either be exempt from Section 409A of the Code or
shall comply with Section 409A of the Code (including Treasury Regulations and other published guidance related thereto) so as not to subject Participants to payment of any additional tax, penalty, or interest imposed under Section 409A of
the Code. The Plan shall be construed in a manner to give effect to such intention. In no event whatsoever shall the Company and/or any of its affiliates be liable for any tax, interest or penalties that may be imposed on any Participant (or any
Participant s estate) under Section 409A of the Code. Neither the Company and/or any of its affiliates shall have any obligation to indemnify or otherwise hold a Participant (or any Participant s estate) harmless from any or all such
taxes, interest or penalties, or liability for any damages related thereto.   

</EX-10.2>

<EX-10.7>
 3
 dex107.htm
 FORM OF AGREEMENT FOR STOCK OPTION AWARD TO EXECUTIVES

Form of Agreement for Stock Option Award to Executives 

Exhibit 10.7       Form of Agreement for Stock Option Award to Executives under the Company s 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (non-competition with clawback for material misstatements) 2009     

       Executive Grant       Grant Number:       

Grant Date    
     
   Option Shares   
     
   Exercise Price     $   
     
   Expiration Date    
    THIS CERTIFIES THAT UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the  Company ) has on the Grant Date specified
above granted to        Name        (the  Optionee ) the option (the  Option ) to purchase that number of shares of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated Common Stock, $.01 par value per share (the  Common Stock ), indicated above (the  Option
Shares ). The Option that this Award represents will expire on the Expiration Date, unless it is terminated prior to that time in accordance with this Award.      The Option Shares represented by this Award shall become exercisable as to [              ]% of the Option Shares on each anniversary of the Grant Date, commencing with the
first anniversary, unless this Option shall have terminated or the vesting shall have accelerated as provided in this Award. Once this Option has become exercisable for all or a portion of the Option Shares, it will remain exercisable for all or
such portion of the Option Shares, as the case may be, until the Option expires or is terminated as provided in this Award.      By accepting this Option, the
holder acknowledges that the holder of this Option will not have any of the rights of a shareholder with respect to the Option Shares until the holder has duly exercised the Option and paid the Exercise Price and applicable withholding taxes in
accordance with this Award. The holder further acknowledges and agrees that the Company may deliver, by electronic mail, the use of the Internet or Company intranet web pages or otherwise, any information concerning the Company, this Option, the
UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), pursuant to which the Company granted this Option, and any information required by the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated
thereunder.      This Option is subject to the further terms and conditions set forth below and to the terms of the Plan. A copy of the Plan is available upon
request. In the event of any conflict between the terms of the Plan and this Award, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any terms not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.   

* * * * *      1.  Nonqualified Option . The Company does not intend that the Option shall be an Incentive Stock Option governed by the provisions of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
     2.  Termination of Option . The Option shall terminate on the Expiration Date. The Option shall terminate prior to such date if the
Optionee ceases to be employed by the Company or any Affiliate, except that:      (a)  General:  If the Optionee s employment
terminates for any reason (voluntary or involuntary) other than (i) death or permanent long-term disability, or (ii) a termination of employment that results in severance or separation pay being paid to Optionee, and at the time of such
termination Optionee is not eligible for Retirement (as defined below), then the Optionee may, at any time within the Exercise Period (as defined below), exercise the Option to the extent of the full number of Option Shares which were exercisable
and which the Optionee was entitled to purchase under the Option on the date of the termination of his or her employment;      (b)  Death or
Permanent Long-Term Disability:  If the Optionee dies while employed by the Company or any Affiliate, or if the Optionee s employment by the Company or any Affiliate is terminated due to the Optionee s failure to return to work as the
result of a permanent long-term disability which renders the Optionee incapable of performing his or her duties as determined under the provisions of the Company s long-term disability insurance program, then (i) all unvested Option Shares
hereunder shall immediately vest, and (ii) the Optionee (or the Optionee s personal representatives, administrators or guardians, as applicable, or any person or persons to whom the Option is transferred by will or the applicable laws of
descent and distribution) may (subject to earlier expiration on the Expiration Date) at any time within a period of five years after the Optionee s death or termination of employment due to the Optionee s failure to return to work as the
result of a permanent long-term disability, or for such other longer period established at the discretion of the Committee or the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, exercise the Option to the extent of the full number of Option Shares which are
exercisable following such vesting;      (c)  Severance:  If the Optionee is entitled to severance under the Company s severance pay
plan as in effect on the date hereof and the Optionee is not eligible for Retirement (as defined below) at the time of termination of employment, then vesting of the Option shall continue for the period of such severance. If Optionee is entitled to
severance under an employment agreement entered into with the Company, then vesting of the Option shall continue for the period of such severance that Optionee is entitled to receive as of the date hereof. If the Optionee is entitled to separation
pay other than under the Company s severance pay plan or an employment agreement, then vesting of the Option shall continue for the lesser of (i) the period the Optionee would have received payments under the severance pay plan as in
effect on the date hereof, had the Optionee been eligible for such payments; or (ii) the period of separation pay. In either case, should the Optionee be paid in a lump sum versus bi-weekly payments, the Option shall continue to vest for the
time in which severance or separation pay would have been paid had it been paid bi-weekly;         
   2   

(d)  Retirement . If the Optionee s employment by the Company or any Affiliate is terminated
and at the time of termination is eligible for Retirement, then (i) vesting of the Option shall continue as if such termination of employment had not occurred and (ii) the Optionee may, at any time within the shorter of (1) the
Expiration Date of the Option or (2) a period of five years after such termination of employment or for such other longer period established at the discretion of the Committee or the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, exercise the Option
to the extent of the full number of Option Shares which are exercisable and which the Optionee is entitled to purchase under the Option on the date of exercise of the Award; provided that the Award shall continue to be subject to  Forfeiture of
Option and Shares  below; and      (e) For the purposes of this Option,  Exercise Period  shall mean the greater of: (i) a
period of three months after the date of termination of the Optionee s employment; (ii) if Optionee receives severance or separation pay, a period of three months after vesting ceases as provided in (c), above; or (iii) such other
longer period established at the discretion of the Committee or the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. This Option shall in no event be exercisable after the Expiration Date.      For purposes of this Award,  Retirement  means the termination of employment of a Participant who is age 55 or older with at least ten years of
Recognized Employment with the Company or any Affiliate other than by reason of (i) death or permanent long-term disability or (ii) Misconduct.      For purposes of this Award,  Recognized Employment  shall include only employment since the Optionee s most recent date of hire by the Company or any Affiliate, and shall not include employment with a
company acquired by UnitedHealth Group or any Affiliate before the date of such acquisition.      For purposes of this Award,
 Misconduct  shall mean an Optionee s (a) violation of, or failure to act upon or report known or suspected violations of, the Company s Principles of Ethics and Integrity, or (b) commission of any illegal, fraudulent,
or dishonest act or gross negligent or intentional misrepresentation in connection with the Optionee s employment.      3.  Forfeiture
of Option and Shares . This section sets forth circumstances under which the Optionee shall forfeit all or a portion of the Options, or be required to repay the Company for the value realized in respect of all or a portion of the Options.
     (a)  Violation of Restrictive Covenants . If the Optionee violates any provision of the Restrictive Covenants in Section 4 of
this Award, then (i) any unvested Options and (ii) any Options that vested within one year prior to the Optionee s termination of employment with the Company or any Affiliate or at any time after such termination of employment (the
 Forfeited Options ) and that have not been exercised shall be immediately cancelled and rendered null and void without any payment therefor. If any such Forfeited Options have been exercised prior to the Optionee s violation of the
Restrictive Covenants, the Optionee shall be required to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company, upon demand, an amount in cash or Common Stock having a value equal to the amount described in clause (i) or (ii), depending on whether the
Optionee still holds  
       
   3   

the Option Shares acquired upon exercise of the Forfeited Options; (i) to the extent that such Option Shares have been sold, the difference between the
aggregate proceeds received from such sale of such Option Shares over the aggregate Exercise Price for such Option Shares, and (ii) to the extent that such Option Shares have not been sold at the time Company demand is made, the difference
between the aggregate Fair Market Value of such Option Shares on the date the Forfeited Options were exercised over the aggregate Exercise Price with respect to such Option Shares.      (b)  Fraud . If the Board determines that the Optionee has engaged in fraud that, in whole or in part, caused the need for a material restatement of
the Company s consolidated financial statements, then any vested and unvested Options then held by the Optionee shall be immediately cancelled and rendered null and void without any payment therefor. In addition, for any Options that were
exercised during the 12-month period following the first public issuance or filing with the Securities Exchange Commission (whichever occurs first) of the incorrect financial statements (the  Covered Options ), the Optionee shall be
required to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company, upon demand, an amount in cash or Common Stock having a value equal to the amount described in clause (i) or (ii), depending on whether the Optionee still holds the Option Shares acquired
upon exercise of the Covered Options; (i) to the extent that such Option Shares have been sold, the difference between the aggregate proceeds received from such sale of such Option Shares over the aggregate Exercise Price for such Option
Shares, and (ii) to the extent that such Option Shares have not been sold at the time Company demand is made, the difference between the aggregate Fair Market Value of such Option Shares on the date the Covered Options were exercised over the
aggregate Exercise Price with respect to such Option Shares.      (c)  In General . This section does not constitute the Company s
exclusive remedy for the Optionee s violation of the Restrictive Covenants or commission of fraudulent conduct. The Company may seek any additional legal or equitable remedy, including injunctive relief, for any such violations. The provisions
in this section are essential economic conditions to the Company s grant of Options to the Optionee. By receiving the grant of Options hereunder, the Optionee agrees that the Company may deduct from any amounts it owes the Optionee from time to
time (such as wages or other compensation, deferred compensation credits, vacation pay, any severance or other payments owed following a termination of employment, as well as any other amounts owed to the Optionee by the Company) to the extent of
any amounts the Optionee owes the Company under this section. The provisions of this section and any amounts repayable by the Optionee hereunder are intended to be in addition to any rights to repayment the Company may have under Section 304 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other applicable law.      4.  Restrictive Covenants . In consideration of the terms of this Option and
the Optionee s access to Confidential Information, the Optionee agrees to the Restrictive Covenants set forth below. For purposes of these Restrictive Covenants, the  Company  means UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and all of any
Affiliate and other affiliates.      (a)  Confidential Information . The Optionee will be given access to and provided with sensitive,
confidential, proprietary and trade secret information  
       
   4   

( Confidential Information ) in the course of the Optionee s employment. Examples of Confidential Information include: inventions; new product
or marketing plans; business strategies and plans; merger and acquisition targets; financial and pricing information; computer programs, source codes, models and databases; analytical models; customer lists and information; and supplier and vendor
lists and information. The Optionee agrees not to disclose or use Confidential Information, either during or after the Optionee s employment with the Company, except as necessary to perform the Optionee s duties or as the Company may
consent in writing.      (b)  Non-Solicitation . During the Optionee s employment and for the greater of two years after the
termination of the Optionee s employment for any reason whatsoever, or the period of time for which the Option remains exercisable, the Optionee may not, without the Company s prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for the Optionee
or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:       

(i)  
  Solicit any business competitive with the Company from any person or entity who (a) was a Company provider or customer within the 12 months before Optionee s employment
termination and with whom Optionee had contact to further the Company s business, or for whom Optionee provided services or supervised employees who provided those services, or (b) was a prospective provider or customer the Company
solicited within the 12 months before Participant s employment termination and with whom Participant had contact for the purposes of soliciting the person or entity to become a provider or customer of the Company, or supervised employees who
had those contacts.         

(ii)  
  Hire, employ, recruit or solicit any Company employee or consultant.         

(iii)  
  Induce or influence any Company employee, consultant, or provider to terminate his, her or its employment or other relationship with the Company.         

(iv)  
  Assist anyone in any of the activities listed above.        (c)
 Non-Competition . During the Optionee s employment and for the greater of one year after the termination of the Optionee s employment for any reason whatsoever or the period of time for which the Option remains exercisable, the
Optionee may not, without the Company s prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for the Optionee or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any
other individual or representative capacity:       

(i)  
  Engage in or participate in any activity that competes, directly or indirectly, with any Company product or service that Optionee engaged in, participated in, or had Confidential
Information about during Optionee s employment.           
   5   

(ii)  
  Assist anyone in any of the activities listed above.        (d)
Because the Company s business competes on a nationwide basis, the Participant s obligations under this  Restrictive Covenants  section shall apply on a nationwide basis anywhere in the United States.      (e) To the extent Participant and the Company agree at any time to enter into separate agreements containing restrictive covenants with different or
inconsistent terms than those contained herein, Participant and the Company acknowledge and agree that such different or inconsistent terms shall not in any way affect or have relevance to the Restrictive Covenants contained herein.      By accepting this Option, the Optionee agrees that the provisions of this Restrictive Covenants section are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests
of the Company.      5.  Manner of Exercise . On the terms set forth herein, the Option may be exercised in whole or in part from time to
time by delivering notice of exercise to the Company, accompanied by payment of the Exercise Price and any applicable withholding taxes (i) in cash, by wire transfer, certified check or bank cashier s check payable to the Company,
(ii) by delivery of shares of Common Stock already owned by the Optionee or (iii) by delivery of a combination of cash and such shares; provided, that the Optionee shall not be entitled to tender shares of Common Stock pursuant to
successive, substantially simultaneous exercises of options to purchase Common Stock. Any shares already owned by the Optionee referred to in the preceding sentence must have been owned by the Optionee for no less than six months prior to the date
of exercise of the Option if such shares were acquired upon the exercise of another option or upon the vesting of restricted stock or restricted stock units. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award, the Company shall not be required
to issue or deliver any shares of Common Stock upon exercise of any Option until the requirements of any federal or state securities laws, rules or regulations or other laws or rules (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be
determined by the Company to be applicable have been and continue to be satisfied (including an effective registration of the shares under federal and state securities laws).      6.  No Guarantee of Employment . This Option does not confer on the Optionee any right with respect to the continuance of any relationship with the
Company or any Affiliate, nor will it interfere in any way with the right of the Company to terminate such relationship at any time.      7.
 No Transfer . During the Optionee s lifetime, only the Optionee can exercise the Option. The Optionee may not transfer the Option except by will or the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order
as defined by the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act or the rules promulgated thereunder, to the extent provided in clause (b) under the section above entitled  Termination of Option.  Any attempt to
otherwise transfer the Option shall be void.         
   6   

8.  Adjustments to Option Shares . In the event that any dividend or other distribution (whether in
the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of Shares or other
securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affecting the Shares would be reasonably likely to result in the diminution or enlargement of any of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the
Option (including, without limitation, the benefits or potential benefits of provisions relating to the term, vesting or exercisability of the Option), the Committee shall, in such manner as it shall deem equitable or appropriate in order to prevent
such diminution or enlargement of any such benefits or potential benefits, adjust any or all of (i) the number and type of shares (or other securities or other property) subject to the Option and (ii) the exercise price with respect to the
Option; provided, however, that the number of shares covered by the Option shall always be a whole number. Without limiting the foregoing, if any capital reorganization or reclassification of the capital stock of the Company, or consolidation or
merger of the Company with another entity, or the sale of all or substantially all of the Company s assets to another entity, shall be effected in such a way that holders of the Company s Common Stock shall be entitled to receive stock,
securities, cash or other assets with respect to or in exchange for such shares, the Optionee shall have the right to purchase and receive upon the basis and upon the terms and conditions specified in this Award and in lieu of the shares of Common
Stock of the Company immediately theretofore purchasable and receivable upon the exercise of the Option, with appropriate adjustments to prevent diminution or enlargement of benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the
Option, such shares of stock, other securities, cash or other assets as would have been issued or delivered to the Optionee if the Optionee had exercised the Option and had received such shares of Common Stock prior to such reorganization,
reclassification, consolidation, merger or sale. The Company shall not effect any such reorganization, consolidation, merger or sale unless prior to the consummation thereof the successor entity (if other than the Company) resulting from such
reorganization, consolidation or merger or the entity purchasing such assets shall assume by written instrument the obligation to deliver to the Optionee such shares of stock, securities, cash or other assets as, in accordance with the foregoing
provisions, the Optionee may be entitled to purchase or receive.      9.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding the other vesting provisions
set forth herein, but subject to the other terms and conditions set forth herein, the Option shall become fully vested and exercisable on the effective date of a Change in Control. For purposes of this Option, a  Change in Control  shall
mean the sale of all or substantially all of the Company s assets or any merger, reorganization, or exchange or tender offer which, in each case, will result in a change in the power to elect 50% or more of the members of the Board of Directors
of the Company.      10.  Narrowed Enforcement and Severability . If a court or arbitrator decides that any provision of this Award is
invalid or overbroad, the Optionee agrees that the court or arbitrator should narrow such provision so that it is enforceable or, if narrowing is not possible or permissible, such provision should be considered severed and the other provisions of
this Award should be unaffected.         
   7   

11.  Injunctive Relief . The Optionee agrees that (a) legal remedies (money damages) for any
breach of the Restrictive Covenants in Section 4 of this Award will be inadequate, (b) the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable harm from any such breach, and (c) the Company will be entitled to injunctive relief from a court
in addition to any legal remedies the Company may seek in arbitration.      12.  Survival . The Restrictive Covenants and provisions
regarding the forfeiture of Options and shares in this Award shall survive the termination of the Option.      13.  Other . An original
record of this Award and all the terms thereof is held on file by the Company. To the extent there is any conflict between the terms contained in this Award and the terms contained in the original held by the Company, the terms of the original held
by the Company shall control. Neither the Plan nor the Option shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company or any Affiliate and Optionee or any other Person. To the
extent that any Person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any Affiliate pursuant to an Option, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured creditor of the Company or any Affiliate.      14.  Governing Law . The validity, construction and effect of this Option and any rules and regulations relating to the Option and this Award shall
be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota (without regard to its conflict of laws principles).       THIS AWARD REPRESENTS AN
OPTION TO PURCHASE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK AND DOES NOT CONSTITUTE OR REPRESENT SHARES OF COMMON STOCK        NON-NEGOTIABLE    
     
   8   

</EX-10.7>

<EX-10.8>
 4
 dex108.htm
 FORM OF AGREEMENT FOR RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD TO EXECUTIVES

Form of Agreement for Restricted Stock Award to Executives 

Exhibit 10.8       6. Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement to Executives under the Company s 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (non-competition with clawback for fraud in connection with material misstatements) (2009)     

       RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD       Award Number:                      

Award Date    
     
   Number of Shares   
     
   Final Vesting Date    
    THIS CERTIFIES THAT UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the  Company ) has on the Award Date specified
above granted to        Name        ( Participant ) an award (the  Award ) of that number of shares (the  Shares ) of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated Common Stock, $.01 par value per share (the  Common Stock ), indicated above in the
box labeled  Number of Shares,  subject to certain restrictions and on the terms and conditions contained in this Award and the UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). A copy of the Plan is
available upon request. In the event of any conflict between the terms of the Plan and this Award, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any terms not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.      * * * * *      1.  Rights of the Participant with Respect
to the Shares . With respect to the Shares, on and after the Award Date and until the date or dates on which the Shares vest and the restrictions with respect to the Shares lapse in accordance with Section 2, 3 or 4, Participant shall have
all of the rights of a shareholder of the Common Stock, including the right to vote the Shares and the right to receive dividends thereon, unless and until the Shares are forfeited pursuant to Section 4 or 7. The rights of Participant with
respect to the Shares shall remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date or dates on which such rights become vested, and the restrictions with respect to the Shares lapse, in accordance with Section 2, 3 or 4. Subject to the restrictions
and terms of this Award, after the Shares vest pursuant to Section 2, 3 or 4, Participant shall have all of the rights of a shareholder of the Common Stock with respect to the Shares (including, without limitation, the right to vote the Shares
and to receive cash dividends).   

2.  Vesting . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Award,
[              %] of the Shares shall vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Shares shall lapse, on each of the
[              ] and [              ] anniversaries of the Award Date if Participant remains continuously employed by
the Company or any Affiliate or continues to serve on the Board of Directors of the Company until the respective vesting dates.      3.  Early Vesting
Upon Change in Control . Notwithstanding the other vesting provisions contained in Section 2, but subject to the other terms and conditions set forth herein, upon the effective date of a Change in Control, all of the Shares shall become
immediately and unconditionally vested and exercisable, and the restrictions with respect to all of the Shares shall lapse. For purposes of this Award, a  Change in Control  shall mean the sale of all or substantially all of the
Company s assets or any merger, reorganization, or exchange or tender offer which, in each case, will result in a change in the power to elect 50% or more of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company.      4.  Forfeiture or Early Vesting Upon Termination of Employment .      (a)  Termination of Employment Generally . If, prior to vesting of the Shares pursuant to Section 2 or 3, Participant ceases to be an employee of the Company or any Affiliate, or ceases to serve on the Board
of Directors of the Company, for any reason (voluntary or involuntary) other than (i) death or permanent long-term disability or (ii) a termination of employment that results in severance or separation pay being paid to Participant, and at
the time of such termination Participant is not eligible for Retirement (as defined below), then Participant s rights to all of the unvested Shares shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited.      (b)  Death or Permanent Long-Term Disability . If Participant dies while employed by the Company or any Affiliate, or if
Participant s employment by the Company or any Affiliate is terminated due to Participant s failure to return to work as the result of a permanent long-term disability that renders Participant incapable of performing his or her duties as
determined under the provisions of the Company s long-term disability insurance program applicable to Participant, then all unvested Shares shall become immediately vested, and the restrictions with respect to all of the Shares shall lapse, as
of the date of such long-term disability or death. No transfer by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution of any Shares that vest by reason of Participant s death shall be effective to bind the Company unless the Committee shall
have been furnished with written notice of such transfer and a copy of the will or such other evidence as the committee of the Board of Directors administering the Plan (the  Committee ) may deem necessary to establish the validity of the
transfer.      (c)  Severance . If Participant is entitled to severance under the Company s severance pay plan as in
effect on the date hereof and the Participant is not eligible for Retirement (as defined below) at the time of termination of employment, then the Shares shall continue to vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Shares shall continue to
lapse, for the period of such severance. If Participant is entitled to severance under an employment agreement entered into with the Company, then the  
       
   2   

Shares will continue to vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Shares shall continue to lapse for the period of such severance that Participant is
eligible to receive as of the date hereof. If Participant is entitled to separation pay other than under the Company s severance pay plan or an employment agreement, then vesting of the Shares, and lapsing of their restrictions, shall continue
for the lesser of (i) the period Participant would have received payments under the severance pay plan as in effect on the date hereof, had Participant been eligible for such payments; or (ii) the period of separation pay. In either case,
should Participant be paid in a lump sum versus bi-weekly payments, the Shares shall continue to vest for the time in which severance or separation pay would have been paid had it been paid bi-weekly.      (d)  Retirement . If the Participant s employment by the Company or any Affiliate is terminated and at the time of termination
is eligible for Retirement, then the vesting of the Shares shall continue as if such termination of employment had not occurred, subject to  Forfeiture of Shares  below; provided the Committee or the Chief Executive Officer of the Company
may accelerate the lapse of restrictions on such Shares to such an earlier date as the Committee or the Chief Executive Officer of the Company may establish in its or his or her discretion.      (e) For purposes of this Award,  Retirement  means the termination of employment of a Participant who is age 55 or older with at
least ten years of Recognized Employment with the Company or any Affiliate other than by reason of (i) death or permanent long-term disability or (ii) Misconduct.      For purposes of this Award,  Recognized Employment  shall include only employment since the Participant s most recent date
of hire by the Company or any Affiliate, and shall not include employment with a company acquired by UnitedHealth Group or any Affiliate before the date of such acquisition.      For purposes of this Award,  Misconduct  shall mean a Participant s (a) violation of, or failure to act upon or report
known or suspected violations of, the Company s Principles of Ethics and Integrity, or (b) commission of any illegal, fraudulent, or dishonest act or gross negligent or intentional misrepresentation in connection with the
Participant s employment.      5.  Restriction on Transfer . Until the Shares vest pursuant to Section 2, 3 or 4, the Shares may not be
sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of or encumbered, and no attempt to transfer unvested Shares, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall vest the transferee with any interest or
right in or with respect to the Shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Participant may, in the manner established by the Committee, designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries to exercise the rights of Participant and receive any property distributable
with respect to the Shares upon the death of Participant.      6.  Restrictive Covenants . In consideration of the terms of this Award and
Participant s access to Confidential Information, Participant agrees to the Restrictive Covenants set forth below. For purposes of these Restrictive Covenants, the  Company  means UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and all of its
subsidiaries and other affiliates.         
   3   

(a)  Confidential Information . Participant will be given access to and provided
with sensitive, confidential, proprietary and trade secret information ( Confidential Information ) in the course of Participant s employment. Examples of Confidential Information include: inventions; new product or marketing plans;
business strategies and plans; merger and acquisition targets; financial and pricing information; computer programs, source codes, models and databases; analytical models; customer lists and information; and supplier and vendor lists and
information. Participant agrees not to disclose or use Confidential Information, either during or after Participant s employment with the Company, except as necessary to perform Participant s duties or as the Company may consent in
writing.      (b)  Non-Solicitation . During Participant s employment and for two years after the later of
(i) the termination of Participant s employment for any reason whatsoever, or (ii) the last scheduled vesting date under Section 4, Participant may not, without the Company s prior written consent, directly or indirectly,
for Participant or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:       

(i)  
  Solicit any business competitive with the Company from any person or entity who (a) was a Company provider or customer within the 12 months before Participant s employment
termination and with whom Participant had contact to further the Company s business, or for whom Participant provided services or supervised employees who provided those services, or (b) was a prospective provider or customer the Company
solicited within the 12 months before Participant s employment termination and with whom Participant had contact for the purposes of soliciting the person or entity to become a provider or customer of the Company, or supervised employees who
had those contacts.         

(ii)  
  Hire, employ, recruit or solicit any Company employee or consultant.         

(iii)  
  Induce or influence any Company employee, consultant, or provider to terminate his, her or its employment or other relationship with the Company.         

(iv)  
  Assist anyone in any of the activities listed above.        (c)  Non-Competition . During Participant s employment and for one year after the later of (i) the termination of Participant s employment for any reason whatsoever, or (ii) the last scheduled
vesting date under Section 4, Participant may not, without the Company s prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for Participant or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal,
partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:       

(i)  
  Engage in or participate in any activity that competes, directly or indirectly, with any Company product or service that Participant engaged in, participated in, or had Confidential
Information about during Participant s employment.           
   4   

(ii)  
  Assist anyone in any of the activities listed above.        (d) Because the Company s business competes on a nationwide basis, the Participant s obligations under this  Restrictive Covenants  section shall apply on a nationwide basis anywhere in the United
States.      (e) To the extent Participant and the Company agree at any time to enter into separate agreements containing
restrictive covenants with different or inconsistent terms than those contained herein, Participant and the Company acknowledge and agree that such different or inconsistent terms shall not in any way affect or have relevance to the Restrictive
Covenants contained herein.      By accepting this Restricted Stock Award, Participant agrees that the provisions of this Restrictive Covenants
section are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company.      7.  Forfeiture of Shares . This section sets forth
circumstances under which Participant shall forfeit all or a portion of the Shares, or be required to repay the Company for the value realized in respect of all or a portion of the Shares.      (a)  Violation of Restrictive Covenants . If Participant violates any provision of the Restrictive Covenants set forth in
Section 6, then any unvested Shares shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited without any payment therefor. In addition, for any Shares that vested within one year prior to Participant s termination of employment with the Company or
any Affiliate or at any time after such termination of employment, Participant shall be required to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company, upon demand, an amount in cash or Common Stock having a value equal to the aggregate Fair Market Value of
such Shares on the date the Shares became vested.      (b)  Fraud . If the Board determines that Participant has engaged in
fraud that, in whole or in part, caused the need for a material restatement of the Company s consolidated financial statements, then any unvested Shares shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited without any payment therefor. In addition,
for any Shares that became vested during the 12-month period following the first public issuance or filing with the Securities Exchange Commission (whichever occurs first) of the incorrect financial statements, Participant shall be required to repay
or otherwise reimburse the Company, upon demand, an amount in cash or Common Stock having a value equal to the aggregate Fair Market Value of such Shares on the date the Shares became vested.      (c)  In General . This section does not constitute the Company s exclusive remedy for Participant s violation of the
Restrictive Covenants or commission of fraudulent conduct. The Company may seek any additional legal or equitable remedy, including injunctive relief, for any such violations. The provisions in this section are essential economic conditions to the
Company s grant of Shares to the Participant. By receiving the grant of Shares hereunder, Participant agrees that the Company may deduct from any amounts it owes Participant from time to time (such  
       
   5   

as wages or other compensation, deferred compensation credits, vacation pay, any severance or other payments owed following a termination of employment, as
well as any other amounts owed to Participant by the Company) to the extent of any amounts Participant owes the Company under this section. The provisions of this section and any amounts repayable by Participant hereunder are intended to be in
addition to any rights to repayment the Company may have under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other applicable law.      8.  Issuance
of Shares .      (a) Effective as of the Award Date, the Company shall cause the Shares to be issued in book-entry form,
registered in Participant s name. The Shares shall be subject to an appropriate stop-transfer order.      (b) After
any of the Shares vest pursuant to Section 2, 3 or 4 and following payment of the applicable withholding taxes pursuant to Section 10, the Company promptly shall cause the stop-transfer order to be removed with respect to such vested
Shares.      9.  Adjustments to Shares .      (a) In the event that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split,
reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of Common Stock or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affecting the Common Stock would be reasonably likely
to result in the diminution or enlargement of any of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Award (including, without limitation, the benefits or potential benefits of provisions relating to the vesting of the
Shares), the Committee shall, in such manner as it shall deem equitable or appropriate in order to prevent such diminution or enlargement of any such benefits or potential benefits, make adjustments to the Award, including adjustments in the number
and type of Shares Participant would have received;  provided, however , that the number of shares covered by the Award shall always be a whole number.      (b) Any additional shares of Common Stock, any other securities of the Company and any other property (except for cash dividends or
other cash distributions) distributed with respect to the Shares prior to the date or dates the Shares vest shall be subject to the same restrictions, terms and conditions as the Shares and shall be promptly deposited with the Secretary of the
Company or a custodian designated by the Secretary.      (c) Any cash dividends or other cash distributions payable with
respect to the Shares shall be distributed at the same time cash dividends or other cash distributions are distributed to shareholders of the Company generally.         

   6   

10.  Tax Matters .      (a) In order to comply with all applicable federal, state and local tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it
deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal, state and local payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, which are the sole and absolute responsibility of Participant, are withheld or collected from Participant.      (b) On each applicable vesting date, Participant will be deemed to have elected to satisfy Participant s minimum required federal,
state, and local payroll, withholding, income or other tax withholding obligations arising from the receipt of, or the lapse of restrictions relating to, the Shares, by having the Company withhold a portion of the Shares otherwise to be delivered
having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes (but only to the extent of the minimum amount required to be withheld under applicable laws or regulations), unless, on or before the applicable vesting date, Participant notifies the
Company that Participant has elected, and makes appropriate arrangements, to deliver cash, check (bank check, certified check or personal check) or money order payable to the Company.      11.  Miscellaneous .      (a) This Award does not confer on Participant any right
with respect to the continuance of any relationship with the Company or any Affiliate, nor will it interfere in any way with the right of the Company to terminate such relationship at any time.      (b) Neither the Plan nor this Award shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary
relationship between the Company or any Affiliate and Participant or any other Person. To the extent that any Person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any Affiliate pursuant to an Award, such right shall be no greater than the
right of any unsecured creditor of the Company or any Affiliate.      (c) The Company shall not be required to deliver any
Shares until the requirements of any federal or state securities laws, rules or regulations or other laws or rules (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable are satisfied.      (d) An original record of this Award and all the terms hereof, executed by the Company, is held on file by the Company. To the extent
there is any conflict between the terms contained in this Award and the terms contained in the original held by the Company, the terms of the original held by the Company shall control.      (e) If a court or arbitrator decides that any provision of this Award is invalid or overbroad, Participant agrees that the court or
arbitrator should narrow such provision so that it is enforceable or, if narrowing is not possible or permissible, such provision should be considered severed and the other provisions of this Award should be unaffected.         
   7   

(f) Participant agrees that (i) legal remedies (money damages) for any breach
of the Restrictive Covenants in Section 6 will be inadequate, (ii) the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable harm from any such breach, and (iii) the Company will be entitled to injunctive relief from a court in addition to
any legal remedies the Company may seek in arbitration.      (g) The Restrictive Covenants and provisions regarding the
forfeiture of Shares in this Award shall survive forfeiture of the Shares.      (h) The validity, construction and effect of
this Award and any rules and regulations relating to this Award shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota (without regard to its conflict of laws principles).         
   8   

</EX-10.8>

<EX-10.9>
 5
 dex109.htm
 FORM OF AGREEMENT FOR RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD TO EXECUTIVES

Form of Agreement for Restricted Stock Unit Award to Executives 

Exhibit 10.9       7. Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement to Executives under the Company s 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (non-competition with clawback for fraud in connection with material misstatements) (2009)     

       RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD        

Award Number:  

Award Date   
     
   Number of Units   
     
   Final Vesting Date    
    THIS CERTIFIES THAT UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the  Company ) has on the Award Date specified
above granted to        Name        ( Participant ) an award (the  Award ) to receive that number of restricted stock units (the  Restricted Stock Units ) indicated above in the box labeled  Number of Units,  each Restricted Stock Unit
representing the right to receive one share of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated Common Stock, $.01 par value per share (the  Common Stock ), subject to certain restrictions and on the terms and conditions contained in this Award and the
UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). A copy of the Plan is available upon request. In the event of any conflict between the terms of the Plan and this Award, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any terms
not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.      * * * * *      1.  Rights of the Participant with Respect to the Restricted Stock Units .      (a)  No
Shareholder Rights . The Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Award do not and shall not entitle Participant to any rights of a shareholder of Common Stock. The rights of Participant with respect to the Restricted Stock Units shall
remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date on which such rights become vested, and the restrictions with respect to the Restricted Stock Units lapse, in accordance with Section 2, 3 or 4.      (b)  Conversion of Restricted Stock Units; Issuance of Common Stock . No shares of Common Stock shall be issued to Participant prior
to the date on which the Restricted Stock Units vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Restricted Stock Units lapse, in accordance with Section 2, 3 or 4. Neither this Section 1(b) nor any action taken pursuant to or in accordance
with this Section 1(b) shall be construed to create a trust of any kind. After any Restricted Stock Units vest pursuant to Section 2, 3 or 4, the Company shall promptly cause to be issued shares of Common Stock in book-entry form,
registered in Participant s name or in the name of  

Participant s legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be, in payment of such vested whole Restricted Stock Units, but in any
event, within the period ending on March 15   th    of the year following the year in which the vesting event occurs (which payment schedule is
intended to comply with the  short-term deferral  exemption from the application of Section 409A of the Code), unless such payment is deferred in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Company s non-qualified
compensation deferral plans. The value of any fractional Restricted Stock Unit shall be paid in cash at the time shares of Common Stock are delivered to Participant in payment of the Restricted Stock Units.      2.  Vesting . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Award, [              ]% of the
Restricted Stock Units shall vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Restricted Stock Units shall lapse, on each of the
[                      ], and [              ] anniversaries of the Award Date
if Participant remains continuously employed by the Company or continues to serve on the Board of Directors of the Company until the respective vesting dates.      3.  Early Vesting Upon Change in Control . Notwithstanding the other vesting provisions contained in Section 2, but subject to the other terms and conditions set forth herein, upon the effective date of a Change in Control,
all of the Restricted Stock Units shall become immediately and unconditionally vested and exercisable, and the restrictions with respect to all of the Restricted Stock Units shall lapse. For purposes of this Award, a  Change in Control 
shall mean the sale of all or substantially all of the Company s assets or any merger, reorganization, or exchange or tender offer which, in each case, will result in a change in the power to elect 50% or more of the members of the Board of
Directors of the Company.      4.  Termination of Employment .      (a)  Termination of Employment Generally . If, prior to vesting of the Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Section 2 or 3,
Participant ceases to be an employee of the Company or any Affiliate, or ceases to serve on the Board of Directors of the Company, for any reason (voluntary or involuntary) other than (i) death or permanent long-term disability, or (ii) a
termination that results in severance or separation pay being paid to Participant, and at the time of such termination Participant is not eligible for Retirement (as defined below), then Participant s rights to all of the unvested Restricted
Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited on the date of termination.      (b)  Death or Permanent Long-Term
Disability . If Participant dies while employed by the Company or any Affiliate, or if Participant s employment by the Company or any Affiliate is terminated due to Participant s failure to return to work as the result of a permanent
long-term disability which renders Participant incapable of performing his or her duties as determined under the provisions of the Company s long-term disability insurance program applicable to Participant, then all unvested Restricted Stock
Units shall become immediately vested, and the restrictions with respect to all of the Restricted Stock Units shall lapse, as of the date of such death or employment termination.         
   2   

(c)  Severance . If
Participant is entitled to severance under the Company s severance pay plan as in effect on the date hereof and the Participant is not eligible for Retirement (as defined below) at the time of termination of employment, then the Restricted
Stock Units shall continue to vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Restricted Stock Units shall continue to lapse, for the period of such severance that Participant is eligible to receive. If Participant is entitled to severance under an
employment agreement entered into with the Company, then vesting of the Restricted Stock Units, and lapsing of their restrictions, shall continue for the period of such severance that Participant is entitled to receive as of the date hereof. If
Participant is entitled to separation pay other than under the Company s severance pay plan or an employment agreement, then vesting of the Restricted Stock Units, and lapsing of their restrictions, shall continue for the lesser of (i) the
period Participant would have received payments under the severance pay plan as in effect on the date hereof, had Participant been eligible for such payments or (ii) the period of separation pay. In any case, should Participant be paid in a
lump sum versus bi-weekly payments, the Restricted Stock Units shall continue to vest for the period of time in which severance or separation pay would have been paid had it been paid bi-weekly. The rest of this Section 4(c) to the contrary
notwithstanding, if any period of severance or separation pay described in Sections 4(c)(i), (ii) or (iii) is of a duration that would have the effect of causing any number of Restricted Stock Units to vest, and the restrictions with
respect thereto to lapse, such that the underlying shares of Common Stock would be issued on a date that is after March 15   th    (the
 Acceleration Date ) of the year following the calendar year in which the termination of employment occurs, then that number of Restricted Stock Units will automatically vest and the restrictions with respect thereto shall lapse within
such time to ensure that the underlying shares of Common Stock will be issued to Participant on or prior to the Acceleration Date.      (d)  Retirement . If the Participant s employment by the Company or any Affiliate is terminated and at the time of termination is eligible for Retirement, then the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units shall continue as if such
termination of employment had not occurred, subject to provisions set out in the section entitled  Forfeiture of Restricted Stock Units and Shares of Common Stock  below; provided the Committee or the Chief Executive Officer of the Company
may accelerate the lapse of restrictions on such Restricted Stock Units to such an earlier date as the Committee or the Chief Executive Officer of the Company may establish in its or his or her discretion.      (e) For purposes of this Award,  Retirement  means the termination of employment of a Participant who is age 55 or older with at
least ten years of Recognized Employment with the Company or any Affiliate other than by reason of (i) death or permanent long-term disability or (ii) Misconduct.      For purposes of this Award,  Recognized Employment  shall include only employment since the Participant s most recent date
of hire by the Company or any Affiliate, and shall not include employment with a company acquired by UnitedHealth Group or any Affiliate before the date of such acquisition.         
   3   

For purposes of this Award,  Misconduct  shall mean a Participant s
(a) violation of, or failure to act upon or report known or suspected violations of, the Company s Principles of Ethics and Integrity, or (b) commission of any illegal, fraudulent, or dishonest act or gross negligent or intentional
misrepresentation in connection with the Participant s employment.      5.  Restriction on Transfer . Participant may not transfer the
Restricted Stock Units except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined by the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act or the rules promulgated
thereunder. Any attempt to otherwise transfer the Restricted Stock Units shall be void.      6.  Forfeiture of Restricted Stock Units and Shares of Common
Stock . This section sets forth circumstances under which Participant shall forfeit all or a portion of the Restricted Stock Units, or be required to repay the Company for the value realized in respect of all or a portion of the Restricted Stock
Units.      (a)  Violation of Restrictive Covenants . If Participant violates any provision of the Restrictive Covenants
set forth in Section 7 below, then any unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited without any payment therefor. In addition, for any Restricted Stock Units that vested within one year prior to
Participant s termination of employment with the Company or any Affiliate or at any time after such termination of employment, the Participant shall be required, upon demand, to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company (including by forfeiting
any deferred compensation credits in respect of such Restricted Stock Units under the Company s non-qualified compensation deferral plans) an amount having a value equal to the aggregate Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock
underlying such Restricted Stock Units on the date the Restricted Stock Units became vested.      (b)  Fraud . If the Board
determines that Participant has engaged in fraud that, in whole or in part, caused the need for a material restatement of the Company s consolidated financial statements, then any Restricted Stock Units that have not yet been settled in shares
of Common Stock (including any deferred compensation credits under the Company s non-qualified compensation deferral plans in respect of Restricted Stock Units that have previously become vested) shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited
without any payment therefore. In addition, for any Restricted Stock Units that became vested during the 12-month period following the first public issuance or filing with the Securities Exchange Commission (whichever occurs first) of the incorrect
financial statements, Participant shall be required, upon demand, to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company (including by forfeiting any deferred compensation credits in respect of such Restricted Stock Units under the Company s non-qualified
compensation deferral plans) an amount having a value equal to the aggregate Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock underlying such Restricted Stock Units on the date the Restricted Stock Units became vested.      (c)  In General . This section does not constitute the Company s exclusive remedy for Participant s violation of the
Restrictive Covenants or commission of  
       
   4   

fraudulent conduct. The Company may seek any additional legal or equitable remedy, including injunctive relief, for any such violations. The provisions in
this section are essential economic conditions to the Company s grant of Restricted Stock Units to Participant. By receiving the grant of Restricted Stock Units hereunder, Participant agrees that the Company may deduct from any amounts it owes
Participant from time to time (such as wages or other compensation, deferred compensation credits, vacation pay, any severance or other payments owed following a termination of employment, as well as any other amounts owed to the Participant by the
Company) to the extent of any amounts Participant owes the Company under this section. The provisions of this section and any amounts repayable by Participant hereunder are intended to be in addition to any rights to repayment the Company may have
under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other applicable law.      7.  Restrictive Covenants . In consideration of the terms of this
Award and Participant s access to Confidential Information, Participant agrees to the Restrictive Covenants set forth below. For purposes of the Restrictive Covenants, the  Company  means UnitedHealth Group and all of its subsidiaries
and other affiliates.      (a)  Confidential Information . Participant has or will be given access to and provided with
sensitive, confidential, proprietary and/or trade secret information (collectively,  Confidential Information ) in the course of Participant s employment. Examples of Confidential Information include inventions, new product or
marketing plans, business strategies and plans, merger and acquisition targets, financial and pricing information, computer programs, source codes, models and data bases, analytical models, customer lists and information, and supplier and vendor
lists and information. Participant agrees not to disclose or use Confidential Information, either during or after Participant s employment with the Company, except as necessary to perform Participant s duties or as the Company may consent
in writing.      (b)  Non-Solicitation . During Participant s employment and for two years after the later of
(i) the termination of Participant s employment for any reason whatsoever or (ii) the last scheduled vesting date under Section 4, Participant may not, without the Company s prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for
Participant or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:       

(i)  
  Solicit any business competitive with the Company from any person or entity who (a) was a Company provider or customer within the 12 months before Participant s employment
termination and with whom Participant had contact to further the Company s business, or for whom Participant provided services or supervised employees who provided those services, or (b) was a prospective provider or customer the Company
solicited within the 12 months before Participant s employment termination and with whom Participant had contact for the purposes of soliciting the person or entity to become a provider or customer of the Company, or supervised employees who
had those contacts.           
   5   

(ii)  
  Hire, employ, recruit or solicit any Company employee or consultant.         

(iii)  
  Induce or influence any Company employee, consultant, or provider to terminate his, her or its employment or other relationship with the Company.         

(iv)  
  Assist anyone in any of the activities listed above.        (c)  Non-Competition .   During Participant s employment and for one year after the later of (i) the termination of Participant s employment for any reason whatsoever or (ii) the last
scheduled vesting date under Section 4, Participant may not, without the Company s prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for Participant or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner,
principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:       

(i)  
  Engage in or participate in any activity that competes, directly or indirectly, with any Company product or service that Participant engaged in, participated in, or had Confidential
Information about during Participant s employment.         

(ii)  
  Assist anyone in any of the activities listed above.        (d) Because the Company s business competes on a nationwide basis, the Participant s obligations under this  Restrictive Covenants  section shall apply on a nationwide basis anywhere in the United
States.      (e) To the extent Participant and the Company agree at any time to enter into separate agreements containing
restrictive covenants with different or inconsistent terms than those contained herein, Participant and the Company acknowledge and agree that such different or inconsistent terms shall not in any way affect or have relevance to the Restrictive
Covenants contained herein.      By accepting this Restricted Stock Unit Award, Participant agrees that the provisions of this Restrictive
Covenants section are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company.      8.  Adjustments to Restricted Stock Units .
In the event that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up,
spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of Common Stock or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affecting the Common Stock would be reasonably likely to result in the diminution or  
       
   6   

enlargement of any of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Award (including, without limitation, the benefits or
potential benefits of provisions relating to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units), the Committee shall, in such manner as it shall deem equitable or appropriate in order to prevent such diminution or enlargement of any such benefits or
potential benefits, make adjustments to the Award, including adjustments in the number and type of shares of Common Stock Participant would have received upon vesting of the Restricted Stock Units;  provided ,  however , that the number of
shares into which the Restricted Stock Units may be converted shall always be a whole number.      9.  Tax Matters .      (a) In order to comply with all applicable federal, state and local tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it
deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal, state and local payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, which are the sole and absolute responsibility of Participant, are withheld or collected from Participant.      (b) On each applicable vesting date, Participant will be deemed to have elected to satisfy Participant s minimum required federal,
state, and local payroll, withholding, income or other tax withholding obligations arising from the receipt of shares or the lapse of restrictions relating to the Restricted Stock Units, by having the Company withhold a portion of the shares of
Common Stock otherwise to be delivered having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes (but only to the extent of the minimum amount required to be withheld under applicable laws or regulations), unless, on or before the applicable
vesting date, Participant notifies the Company that Participant has elected, and makes appropriate arrangements, to deliver cash, check (bank check, certified check or personal check) or money order payable to the Company.      10.  Miscellaneous .      (a) This Award does not confer on Participant any right with respect to the continuance of any relationship with the Company or any Affiliate, nor will it interfere in any way with the right of the Company to terminate such
relationship at any time.      (b) Neither the Plan nor this Award shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate
fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company or any Affiliate and Participant or any other Person. To the extent that any Person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any Affiliate pursuant to an Award, such
right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured creditor of the Company or any Affiliate.      (c) The Company
shall not be required to deliver any shares of Common Stock upon the vesting of any Restricted Stock Units until the requirements of any federal or state securities laws, rules or regulations or other laws or rules (including  
       
   7   

the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable have been and continue to be satisfied (including an effective
registration of the shares under federal and state securities laws).      (d) An original record of this Award and all the
terms hereof, executed by the Company, is held on file by the Company. To the extent there is any conflict between the terms contained in this Award and the terms contained in the original held by the Company, the terms of the original held by the
Company shall control.      (e) If a court or arbitrator decides that any provision of this Award is invalid or overbroad,
Participant agrees that the court or arbitrator should narrow such provision so that it is enforceable or, if narrowing is not possible or permissible, such provision should be considered severed and the other provisions of this Award should be
unaffected.      (f) Participant agrees that (i) legal remedies (money damages) for any breach of the Restrictive Covenants
in Section 7 will be inadequate, (ii) the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable harm from any such breach, and (iii) the Company will be entitled to injunctive relief from a court in addition to any legal remedies the Company
may seek in arbitration.      (g) The Restrictive Covenants in this Award and the provisions regarding the forfeiture of
Restricted Stock Units and shares of Common Stock shall survive termination of the Restricted Stock Units.      (h) The
validity, construction and effect of this Award and any rules and regulations relating to this Award shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota (without regard to its conflict of law principles).         
   8   

</EX-10.9>

<EX-10.10>
 6
 dex1010.htm
 FORM OF AGREEMENT FOR STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS AWARD TO EXECUTIVES

Form of Agreement for Stock Appreciation Rights Award to Executives 

Exhibit 10.10       8. Form of Stock Appreciation Rights Award Agreement to Executives under the Company s 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (non- Competition and clawback for fraud in connection with material misstatements) (2009)     

       STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS AWARD        (STOCK SETTLED)        Award Number:        

Award Date   
     
   Number of Shares   
     
   Grant Price   
     
   Expiration Date    
    THIS CERTIFIES THAT UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the  Company ) has on the Award Date specified
above granted to        Name        ( Participant ) stock appreciation rights (the  Stock Appreciation Rights ) with respect to the number of shares of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated Common Stock, $.01 par value per share (the  Common Stock ),
indicated above in the box labeled  Number of Shares  (the  Shares ). The initial value of each Share is indicated above in the box labeled  Grant Price.  This Award represents the right to receive shares of Common
Stock (the  Issued Shares ) only when, and with respect to the number of Shares as to which, the Award has vested (the  Vested Shares ). This Award is subject to the terms and conditions set forth below and in the UnitedHealth
Group Incorporated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). A copy of the Plan is available upon request. In the event of any conflict between the terms of the Plan and this Award, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any terms not defined
herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.      * * * * *      1.  Rights of the Participant with Respect to the Stock Appreciation Rights .      (a)  No Shareholder Rights . The Stock Appreciation Rights granted pursuant to this Award do not and shall not entitle Participant to any rights of a
shareholder of Common Stock prior to the exercise of the Stock Appreciation Rights and the receipt of the Issued Shares in accordance with this Award. The rights of Participant with respect to this Award shall remain forfeitable at all times prior
to the date on which such rights become vested in accordance with Section 2, 3 or 4 hereof.      (b)  Exercise of Stock Appreciation
Rights; Issuance of Common Stock . No shares of Common Stock shall be issued to Participant prior to the date on which the Stock Appreciation Rights are vested in accordance with Sections 2, 3, or 4, and exercised in accordance with  

Section 5. Upon exercise of the Stock Appreciation Rights, Participant shall be entitled to receive a number of Issued Shares for each Vested Share with
respect to which the Stock Appreciation Rights are exercised equal to (i) the excess of the Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of exercise over the Grant Price, divided by (ii) the Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of
exercise. The Issued Shares shall be issued in book-entry form, registered in Participant s name or in the name of Participant s legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be. The Company will not deliver any fractional
share of Common Stock but will pay, in lieu thereof, cash equal to the Fair Market Value of such fractional share.      2.  Vesting .
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Award, the Stock Appreciation Rights shall vest and may be exercised by Participant with respect to [              ]% of the Shares on each
of the [                      ] and [              ] anniversaries of the Award
Date if Participant remains continuously employed by the Company or any Affiliate until the respective vesting dates.      3.  Early Vesting
Upon Change in Control . Notwithstanding the other vesting provisions contained in Section 2, but subject to the other terms and conditions set forth herein, upon the effective date of a Change in Control, the Stock Appreciation Rights with
respect to all of the Shares shall become immediately and unconditionally vested and exercisable. For purposes of this Award, a  Change in Control  shall mean the sale of all or substantially all of the Company s assets or any merger,
reorganization, or exchange or tender offer which, in each case, will result in a change in the power to elect 50% or more of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company.      4.  Forfeiture or Early Vesting Upon Termination of Employment .      (a)  Termination of Employment Generally . If Participant ceases to be an employee of the Company or any Affiliate for any reason (voluntary or involuntary) other than (i) death or permanent long-term
disability, or (ii) a termination that results in severance or separation pay being paid to Participant, and at the time of such termination Participant is not eligible for Retirement (as defined below), then Participant may at any time within
the Exercise Period (as defined below) exercise the Stock Appreciation Rights with respect to the Vested Shares on the date of the termination. Participant s Stock Appreciation Rights with respect to any unvested Shares shall be immediately and
irrevocably forfeited on the date of termination.      (b)  Death or Permanent Long-Term Disability . If Participant dies while employed
by the Company or any Affiliate, or if Participant s employment by the Company or any Affiliate is terminated due to Participant s failure to return to work as the result of a permanent long-term disability which renders Participant
incapable of performing his or her duties as determined under the provisions of the Company s long-term disability insurance program applicable to Participant, then (i) the Stock Appreciation Rights with respect to any unvested Shares
shall immediately vest, and (ii) Participant (or Participant s personal representatives, administrators or guardians, as applicable, or any person or persons to whom the Stock Appreciation Rights are transferred by will or the applicable
laws of descent and distribution) may, subject to Section 7, at any time within a period of five years after the Participant s death or termination of employment due to the Participant s failure to return to work as the result of a
permanent long-term disability, or for such other longer period established at the discretion of the Committee or the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, exercise the Stock Appreciation Rights to the extent of the full number of Vested Shares.
        
   2   

(c)  Severance . If Participant is entitled to severance under the Company s severance pay plan
as in effect on the date hereof and the Participant is not eligible for Retirement (as defined below) at the time of termination of employment, then the Stock Appreciation Rights shall continue to vest for the period of such severance that
Participant is eligible to receive. If Participant is entitled to severance under an employment agreement entered into with the Company, then vesting of the Stock Appreciation Rights shall continue for the period of such severance that Participant
is entitled to receive as of the date hereof. If Participant is entitled to separation pay other than under the Company s severance pay plan or an employment agreement, then vesting of the Stock Appreciation Rights shall continue for the lesser
of (i) the period Participant would have received payments under the severance pay plan as in effect on the date hereof, had Participant been eligible for such payments or (ii) the period of separation pay. In either case, should
Participant be paid in a lump sum versus bi-weekly payments, the Stock Appreciation Rights shall continue to vest for the period of time in which severance or separation pay would have been paid had it been paid bi-weekly.      (d)  Retirement . If the Participant s employment by the Company or any Affiliate is terminated and at the time of termination is eligible for
Retirement, then (i) vesting of the Stock Appreciation Rights shall continue as if such termination of employment had not occurred and (ii) the Participant may, at any time within the shorter of (1) the Expiration Date of the Award or
(2) a period of five years after such termination of employment by reason of the Participant s Retirement or for such other longer period established at the discretion of the Committee or the Chief Executive Officer of the Company,
exercise the Stock Appreciation Rights to the extent of the full number of Vested Shares which are exercisable and which the Participant is entitled to purchase under the Stock Appreciation Rights on the date of exercise of the Award; provided that
the Award shall continue to be subject to  Forfeiture of Stock Appreciation Rights and Shares  below.      (e) For purposes of this
Award,  Exercise Period  means the greater of (i) a period of three months after the date of termination of Participant s employment, (ii) if Participant is entitled to severance or separation pay, a period of three months
after vesting ceases as provided in (c) above, or (iii) such other longer period established at the discretion of the Committee or the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Stock
Appreciation Rights shall in no event be exercisable to any extent or by any Person after the Expiration Date.      For purposes of this Award,
 Retirement  means the termination of employment of a Participant who is age 55 or older with at least ten years of Recognized Employment with the Company or any Affiliate other than by reason of (i) death or permanent long-term
disability or (ii) Misconduct.      For purposes of this Award,  Recognized Employment  shall include only employment since the
Participant s most recent date of hire by the Company or any Affiliate, and shall not include employment with a company acquired by UnitedHealth Group or any Affiliate before the date of such acquisition.         
   3   

For purposes of this Award,  Misconduct  shall mean a Participant s (a) violation of,
or failure to act upon or report known or suspected violations of, the Company s Principles of Ethics and Integrity, or (b) commission of any illegal, fraudulent, or dishonest act or gross negligent or intentional misrepresentation in
connection with the Participant s employment.      5.  Method of Exercise . The Stock Appreciation Rights may be exercised with
respect to Vested Shares by delivery to the Company of a written notice which shall state that Participant elects to exercise the Stock Appreciation Rights as to the number of Vested Shares specified in the notice as of the date specified in the
notice.      6.  Restriction on Transfer . During Participant s lifetime, the Stock Appreciation Rights shall be exercisable only by
Participant. Participant may not transfer the Stock Appreciation Rights except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined by the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act or the rules promulgated thereunder. Any attempt to otherwise transfer the Stock Appreciation Rights shall be void.      7.
 Termination . The Stock Appreciation Rights granted pursuant to this Award shall terminate on the earlier to occur of (a) the date indicated above in the box labeled  Expiration Date  or (b) as provided in Section 4
above.      8.  Forfeiture of Stock Appreciation Rights and Shares . This section sets forth circumstances under which Participant shall
forfeit all or a portion of the Stock Appreciation Rights, or be required to repay the Company for the value realized in respect of all or a portion of the Stock Appreciation Rights.      (a)  Violation of Restrictive Covenants . If Participant violates any provision of the Restrictive Covenants in Section 9, then (i) any
unvested Stock Appreciation Rights and (ii) any Stock Appreciation Rights that vested within one year prior to Participant s termination of employment with the Company or any Affiliate or at any time after such termination of employment
(the  Forfeited SARs ) and that have not been exercised shall be immediately cancelled and rendered null and void without any payment therefor. If any such Forfeited SARs have been exercised prior to Participant s violation of the
Restrictive Covenants, Participant shall be required to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company, upon demand, an amount in cash or Common Stock having a value equal to the amount described in clause (i) or (ii), depending on whether the
Participant still holds the Shares received upon exercise of the Forfeited SARs; (i) to the extent that such Shares have been sold, the aggregate proceeds received from such sale of Shares, and (ii) to the extent that such Shares have not
been sold at the time Company demand is made, the aggregate Fair Market Value of such Shares on the date the Forfeited SARs were exercised.      (b)  Fraud . If the Board determines that Participant has engaged in fraud that, in whole or in part, caused the need for a material restatement of the Company s consolidated financial statements, then any vested and unvested
Stock Appreciation Rights then held by the Participant shall be immediately cancelled and rendered null and void without any payment therefor. In addition, for any Stock Appreciation Rights that were exercised during the 12-month  
       
   4   

period following the first public issuance or filing with the Securities Exchange Commission (whichever occurs first) of the incorrect financial statements
(the  Covered SARs ), the Participant shall be required to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company, upon demand, an amount in cash or Common Stock having a value equal to the amount described in clause (i) or (ii), depending on
whether the Participant still holds the Shares received upon exercise of the Covered SARs; (i) to the extent that such Shares have been sold, the aggregate proceeds received from such sale of Shares, and (ii) to the extent that such Shares
have not been sold at the time Company demand is made, the aggregate Fair Market Value of such Shares on the date the Covered SARs were exercised.      (c)  In General . This section does not constitute the Company s exclusive remedy for Participant s violation of the Restrictive Covenants or commission of fraudulent conduct. The Company may seek any additional legal or
equitable remedy, including injunctive relief, for any such violations. The provisions in this section are essential economic conditions to the Company s grant of Stock Appreciation Rights to Participant. By receiving the grant of Stock
Appreciation Rights hereunder, Participant agrees that the Company may deduct from any amounts it owes Participant from time to time (such as wages or other compensation, deferred compensation credits, vacation pay, any severance or other payments
owed following a termination of employment, as well as any other amounts owed to the Participant by the Company) to the extent of any amounts Participant owes the Company under this section. The provisions of this section and any amounts repayable
by Participant hereunder are intended to be in addition to any rights to repayment the Company may have under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other applicable law.      9.  Restrictive Covenants . In consideration of the terms of this Award and Participant s access to Confidential Information, Participant
agrees to the Restrictive Covenants set forth below. For purposes of the Restrictive Covenants, the  Company  means UnitedHealth Group and all of its subsidiaries and other affiliates.      (a)  Confidential Information . Participant has or will be given access to and provided with sensitive, confidential, proprietary and/or trade
secret information (collectively,  Confidential Information ) in the course of Participant s employment. Examples of Confidential Information include inventions, new product or marketing plans, business strategies and plans, merger
and acquisition targets, financial and pricing information, computer programs, source codes, models and data bases, analytical models, customer lists and information, and supplier and vendor lists and information. Participant agrees not to disclose
or use Confidential Information, either during or after Participant s employment with the Company, except as necessary to perform Participant s duties or as the Company may consent in writing.      (b)  Non-Solicitation . During Participant s employment and for the greater of two years after the termination of Participant s employment
for any reason whatsoever or the period of time during which the Stock Appreciation Rights remain exercisable, Participant may not, without the Company s prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for Participant or for any other person or
entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:       

(i)  
  Solicit any business competitive with the Company from any person or entity who (a) was a Company provider or customer within the 12 months before Participant s employment
termination and with whom Participant had contact to further the Company s business, or for whom Participant provided services or supervised employees who provided those services, or (b) was a prospective provider or customer the Company
solicited within the 12 months before Participant s employment termination and with whom Participant had contact for the purposes of soliciting the person or entity to become a provider or customer of the Company, or supervised employees who
had those contacts.           
   5   

(ii)  
  Hire, employ, recruit or solicit any Company employee or consultant.         

(iii)  
  Induce or influence any Company employee, consultant, or provider to terminate his, her or its employment or other relationship with the Company.         

(iv)  
  Assist anyone in any of the activities listed above.        (c)
 Non-Competition .   During Participant s employment and for the greater of one year after the termination of Participant s employment for any reason whatsoever or the period of time during which the which the Stock Appreciation
Rights remain exercisable, Participant may not, without the Company s prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for Participant or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner
or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:       

(i)  
  Engage in or participate in any activity that competes, directly or indirectly, with any Company product or service that Participant engaged in, participated in, or had Confidential
Information about during Participant s employment.         

(ii)  
  Assist anyone in any of the activities listed above.        (d)
Because the Company s business competes on a nationwide basis, the Participant s obligations under this  Restrictive Covenants  section shall apply on a nationwide basis anywhere in the United States.      (e) To the extent Participant and the Company agree at any time to enter into separate agreements containing restrictive covenants with different or
inconsistent terms than those contained herein, Participant and the Company acknowledge and agree that such different or inconsistent terms shall not in any way affect or have relevance to the Restrictive Covenants contained herein.      By accepting this Stock Appreciation Right, Participant agrees that the provisions of this Restrictive Covenants section are reasonable and necessary to protect the
legitimate interests of the Company.         
   6   

10.  Adjustments to Stock Appreciation Rights . In the event that any dividend or other distribution
(whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of Common
Stock or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affecting the Common Stock would be reasonably likely to result in the diminution or enlargement of any of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be
made available under the Award (including, without limitation, the benefits or potential benefits of provisions relating to the term, vesting or exercisability of the Stock Appreciation Rights), the Committee shall, in such manner as it shall deem
equitable or appropriate in order to prevent such diminution or enlargement of any such benefits or potential benefits, make adjustments to the Award, including adjustments in the number and type of Shares subject to the Stock Appreciation
Rights;  provided ,  however , that the number of shares of Common Stock into which the Stock Appreciation Rights may be exercised shall always be a whole number.      11.  Tax Matters .      (a) In order
to comply with all applicable federal, state and local tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal, state and local payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, which are
the sole and absolute responsibility of Participant, are withheld or collected from Participant.      (b) Upon each exercise of Stock
Appreciation Rights hereunder, Participant will be deemed to have elected to satisfy Participant s minimum required federal, state, and local payroll, withholding, income or other tax withholding obligations arising from the exercise of Stock
Appreciation Rights or the receipt of Issued Shares by having the Company withhold a portion of the Issued Shares otherwise to be delivered having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes (but only to the extent of the minimum amount
required to be withheld under applicable laws or regulations), unless, on or before the date of exercise, Participant notifies the Company that Participant has elected, and makes appropriate arrangements, to deliver cash, check (bank check,
certified check or personal check) or money order payable to the Company.      12.  Miscellaneous .      (a) This Award does not confer on Participant any right with respect to the continuance of any relationship with the Company or any Affiliate, nor
will it interfere in any way with the right of the Company to terminate such relationship at any time.      (b) Neither the Plan nor this Award
shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company or any Affiliate and Participant or any other Person. To the extent that any Person acquires a right to receive payments from
the Company or any Affiliate pursuant to an Award, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured creditor of the Company or any Affiliate.         
   7   

(c) The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any shares of Common Stock upon exercise
of any Stock Appreciation Rights until the requirements of any federal or state securities laws, rules or regulations or other laws or rules (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable have
been and continue to be satisfied (including an effective registration of the shares under federal and state security laws).      (d) An
original record of this Award and all the terms hereof, executed by the Company, is held on file by the Company. To the extent there is any conflict between the terms contained in this Award and the terms contained in the original held by the
Company, the terms of the original held by the Company shall control.      (e) If a court or arbitrator decides that any provision of this
Award is invalid or overbroad, Participant agrees that the court or arbitrator should narrow such provision so that it is enforceable or, if narrowing is not possible or permissible, such provision should be considered severed and the other
provisions of this Award should be unaffected.      (f) Participant agrees that (i) legal remedies (money damages) for any breach of the
Restrictive Covenants in Section 9 will be inadequate, (ii) the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable harm from any such breach, and (iii) the Company will be entitled to injunctive relief from a court in addition to any legal
remedies the Company may seek in arbitration.      (g) The Restrictive Covenants and the provisions regarding forfeiture of the Stock
Appreciation Rights and Shares in this Award shall survive termination of the Stock Appreciation Rights.      (h) The validity, construction
and effect of this Award and any rules and regulations relating to this Award shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota (without regard to its conflict of law principles).         
   8   

</EX-10.10>

<EX-10.11>
 7
 dex1011.htm
 FORM OF AGREEMENT FOR PERFORMANCE-BASED RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD

Form of Agreement for Performance-based Restricted Stock Unit Award 

Exhibit 10.11      

       PERFORMANCE-BASED RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD       Award Number:                              

Award Date   
      
     Target Number of       Performance-Based       Units    
      
   Performance Period    

THIS CERTIFIES THAT UnitedHealth Group Incorporated has on the Award Date specified above granted to   
    Name        ( Participant ) an
award (the  Award ) to be eligible to receive a number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock units (the  Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units ), the target number of which is indicated above in the box labeled  Target
Number of Performance-Based Units,  each Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit representing the right to receive one share of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated Common Stock, $.01 par value per share (the  Common Stock ), subject to
certain restrictions and on the terms and conditions contained in this Award and the UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). A copy of the Plan is available upon request. In the event of any conflict between
the terms of the Plan and this Award, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any terms not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan. This Award is intended to qualify as  qualified performance-based compensation  as
described in Section 162(m)(4) of the Code.      * * * * *      1.  Rights of the Participant with Respect to the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units .      (a)  No Shareholder Rights . The Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Award do not and shall not entitle Participant to any rights of a shareholder of Common Stock. The rights of
Participant with respect to the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units shall remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date on which such rights become vested, and the restrictions with respect to the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units
lapse, in accordance with Section 2, 3 or 4.      (b)  Conversion of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units; Issuance
of Common Stock . No shares of Common Stock shall be issued to Participant prior to the date on which the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units vest, and the  

restrictions with respect to the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units lapse, in accordance with Section 2, 3 or 4. Neither this Section 1(b)
nor any action taken pursuant to or in accordance with this Section 1(b) shall be construed to create a trust of any kind. After any Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units vest pursuant to Section 2, 3 or 4, the Company shall promptly
cause to be issued shares of Common Stock in book-entry form, registered in Participant s name or in the name of Participant s legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be, in payment of such vested whole
Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units, but in any event, within the period ending on March 15   th    of the year following the year in which the
vesting event occurs (which payment schedule is intended to comply with the  short-term deferral  exemption from the application of Section 409A of the Code), unless such payment is deferred in accordance with the terms and conditions
of the Company s non-qualified compensation deferral plans. The value of any fractional Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit shall be paid in cash at the time shares of Common Stock are delivered to Participant in payment of the
Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units.        2.  Vesting . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Award, including without limitation
the terms set forth in Attachment 1, the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units shall vest and the restrictions with respect to the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units shall lapse (i) if Participant has remained continuously employed
with the Company or any Affiliate from the Award Date through and including the end of the Performance Period, and (ii) if and to the extent the Performance Vesting Criteria described in Attachment 1 have been achieved during the Performance
Period. Regardless of whether Participant meets the continuous employment or service criterion described in subpart (i) of this Section 2, if and to the extent the Performance Vesting Criteria have not been achieved, the Participant s
rights to the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited on that date. The Committee will determine in its sole discretion and certify in accordance with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the
Code the extent, if any, to which the Performance Vesting Criteria have been met, and it will retain sole discretion to reduce the number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units that would otherwise vest as a result of the performance measured
against the Performance Vesting Criteria. The Committee may not increase the number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units that may vest as a result of the performance as measured against the Performance Vesting Criteria. Any vesting that may
occur pursuant to this Section 2 will be effective on the date on which the Committee has certified the extent to which the Performance Vesting Criteria in subpart (ii) of this Section 2 were satisfied.        3.  Early Vesting Upon Change in Control . Notwithstanding the other vesting provisions contained in Section 2, but subject to the other terms and
conditions set forth herein, upon the effective date of a Change in Control, then the Target Number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units described in this Award will become immediately and unconditionally vested, and the restrictions with
respect thereto shall lapse. For purposes of this Award, a  Change in Control  shall mean the sale of all or substantially all of the Company s assets or any merger, reorganization, or exchange or tender offer which, in each case,
will result in a change in the power to elect 50% or more of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company.         
   2   

4.  Termination of Employment .      (a)  Termination of Employment Generally . Subject to the provisions of this Section 4, if, prior to vesting of the
Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Section 2 or 3, Participant ceases to be an employee of the Company or any Affiliate, for any reason (voluntary or involuntary), then Participant s rights to all of the unvested
Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited on the date of termination.      (b)
 Death or Permanent Long-Term Disability . If Participant dies while employed by the Company or any Affiliate, or if Participant s employment by the Company or any Affiliate is terminated due to Participant s failure to return to work
as the result of a permanent long-term disability which renders Participant incapable of performing his or her duties as determined under the provisions of the Company s long-term disability program applicable to Participant, then following the
end of the Performance Period, if and to the extent the Committee, in accordance with Section 2 above, determines that some number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units will vest and the restrictions with respect thereto will lapse,
Participant will vest in a pro rata number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units, and the restrictions with respect thereto will lapse. Such pro rationing shall be based on the number of full months of the Performance Period that Participant
was employed prior to the date of death or termination.      (c)  Severance . If Participant s employment ends and in
connection with that separation from employment the Company pays the Participant severance benefits pursuant to an employment agreement with Participant that is in effect on the date of this Award or pursuant to any Company severance policy, plan or
program in effect on the date of termination, then following the end of the Performance Period, if and to the extent the Committee, in accordance with Section 2 above, determines that some number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units will
vest and the restrictions with respect thereto will lapse, Participant will vest in a pro rata number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units, and the restrictions with respect thereto will lapse. Such pro rationing shall be based on the number
of full months of the Performance Period that Participant was employed prior to the date of termination.      5.  Restriction on Transfer .
Participant may not transfer the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined by the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act or the rules promulgated thereunder. Any attempt to otherwise transfer the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units shall be void.      6.
 Forfeiture of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units and Shares of Common Stock . This section sets forth circumstances under which Participant shall forfeit all or a portion of the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units, or be required to
repay the Company for the value realized in respect of all or a portion of the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units.         
   3   

(a)  Violation of Restrictive Covenants . If Participant violates any provision of
the Restrictive Covenants set forth in Section 7 below, then any unvested Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited without any payment therefor. In addition, for any Performance-Based Restricted
Stock Units that did vest, whether before or after Participant s employment terminated, the Participant shall be required, upon demand, to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company (including by forfeiting any deferred compensation credits in
respect of such Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units under the Company s non-qualified compensation deferral plans) an amount having a value equal to the aggregate Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock underlying such
Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units on the date the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units became vested.      (b)
 Fraud or Misconduct . If the Committee determines that: (i) the Participant has engaged in fraud or Misconduct that, in whole or in part, caused the need for a material restatement of the Company s consolidated financial statements,
(ii) the Performance Vesting Criteria were met was based, in whole or in part, on achievement of financial results that were restated in connection with the restatement of the Company s consolidated financial statements, and (iii) the
number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units in which Participant vested would have been less if that number had been based on the restated consolidated financial statements, then any Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units that have not yet
been settled in shares of Common Stock (including any deferred compensation credits under the Company s non-qualified compensation deferral plans in respect of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units that have previously become vested) shall
be immediately and irrevocably forfeited without any payment therefore. In addition, for any Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units that did vest, Participant shall be required, upon demand, to repay or otherwise reimburse the Company (including
by forfeiting any deferred compensation credits in respect of such Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units under the Company s non-qualified compensation deferral plans) an amount having a value equal to the aggregate Fair Market Value of the
shares of Common Stock underlying such Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units on the date the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units became vested. For the avoidance of doubt, a Participant shall be required to repay the full amount of the
aggregate Fair Market Value of any such Common Stock, and not just the amount by which the amount of the aggregate Fair Market Value of the Common Stock underlying the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units that vested exceeded the amount of the
aggregate Fair Market Value of the Common Stock underlying the number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units that would have vested based on the corrected and restated financial results. For purposes of this Section 6(b),
 Misconduct  shall mean a Participant s (a) violation of, or failure to act upon or report known or suspected violations of, the Company s Principles of Ethics and Integrity, or (b) commission of any illegal,
fraudulent, or dishonest act or gross negligent or intentional misrepresentation in connection with the Participant s employment.      (c)  In General . This section does not constitute the Company s exclusive remedy for Participant s violation of the Restrictive Covenants or commission of  
       
   4   

fraud or Misconduct. The Company may seek any additional legal or equitable remedy, including injunctive relief, for any such violations. The provisions in
this section are essential economic conditions to the Company s grant of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units to Participant. By receiving the grant of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units hereunder, Participant agrees that the Company
may deduct from any amounts it owes Participant from time to time (such as wages or other compensation, deferred compensation credits, vacation/PTO pay, any severance or other payments owed following a termination of employment, as well as any other
amounts owed to the Participant by the Company) to the extent of any amounts Participant owes the Company under this section. The provisions of this section and any amounts repayable by Participant hereunder are intended to be in addition to any
rights to repayment the Company may have under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other applicable law.      7.  Restrictive
Covenants . In consideration of the terms of this Award and Participant s access to Confidential Information, Participant agrees to the Restrictive Covenants set forth below. For purposes of the Restrictive Covenants, the  Company 
means UnitedHealth Group and all of its Affiliates.      (a)  Confidential Information . Participant has or will be given
access to and provided with sensitive, confidential, proprietary and/or trade secret information (collectively,  Confidential Information ) in the course of Participant s employment. Examples of Confidential Information include
inventions, new product or marketing plans, business strategies and plans, merger and acquisition targets, financial and pricing information, computer programs, source codes, models and data bases, analytical models, customer lists and information,
and supplier and vendor lists and information. Participant agrees not to disclose or use Confidential Information, either during or after Participant s employment with the Company, except as necessary to perform Participant s duties or as
the Company may consent in writing.      (b)  Non-Solicitation . During Participant s employment and for two years
after the later of (i) the termination of Participant s employment for any reason whatsoever, or (ii) the date on which any number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units vests under Sections 2, 3 or 4, Participant may not,
without the Company s prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for Participant or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or
representative capacity:       

(i)  
    Solicit any business competitive with the Company from any person or entity who (a) was a Company provider or customer within the 12 months before
Participant s employment termination and with whom Participant had contact to further the Company s business, or for whom Participant provided services or supervised employees who provided those services, or (b) was a prospective
provider or customer the Company solicited within the 12 months before Participant s employment termination and with whom  
          
   5   

Participant had contact for the purposes of soliciting the person or entity to become a provider or customer of the Company, or supervised employees who had
those contacts.          

(ii)  
  Hire, employ, recruit or solicit any Company employee or consultant.         

(iii)  
  Induce or influence any Company employee, consultant, or provider to terminate his, her or its employment or other relationship with the Company.         

(iv)  
  Assist anyone in any of the activities listed above.        (c)  Non-Competition .   During Participant s employment and for one year after the later of (i) the termination of Participant s employment for any reason whatsoever, or (ii) the date on
which any number of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units vests under Sections 2, 3 or 4, Participant may not, without the Company s prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for Participant or for any other person or entity, as agent,
employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity:       

(i)  
  Engage in or participate in any activity that competes, directly or indirectly, with any Company product or service that Participant engaged in, participated in, or had Confidential
Information about during Participant s employment.         

(ii)  
  Assist anyone in any of the activities listed above.        (d) Because the Company s business competes on a nationwide basis, the Participant s obligations under this  Restrictive Covenants  section shall apply on a nationwide basis anywhere in the United
States.      (e) To the extent Participant and the Company agree at any time to enter into separate agreements containing
restrictive covenants with different or inconsistent terms than those contained herein, Participant and the Company acknowledge and agree that such different or inconsistent terms shall not in any way affect or have relevance to the Restrictive
Covenants contained herein.      By accepting this Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units Award, Participant agrees that the provisions of this Restrictive
Covenants section are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company.      8.  Adjustments to Performance-Based Restricted
Stock Units . In the event that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger,
consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of Common Stock or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate  
       
   6   

transaction or event affecting the Common Stock would be reasonably likely to result in the diminution or enlargement of any of the benefits or potential
benefits intended to be made available under the Award (including, without limitation, the benefits or potential benefits of provisions relating to the vesting of the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units), the Committee shall, in such manner as
it shall deem equitable or appropriate in order to prevent such diminution or enlargement of any such benefits or potential benefits, make adjustments to the Award, including adjustments in the number and type of shares of Common Stock Participant
would have received upon vesting of the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units;  provided ,  however , that the number of shares into which the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units may be converted shall always be a whole number.
     9.  Tax Matters .      (a) In order to comply with all applicable federal or state income tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal or state payroll, withholding, income or other
taxes, which are the sole and absolute responsibility of Participant, are withheld or collected from Participant.      (b) On any pertinent vesting date described in this Award, Participant will be deemed to have elected to satisfy Participant s minimum required federal, state, and local payroll, withholding, income or other tax withholding
obligations arising from the receipt of shares or the lapse of restrictions relating to the Performance-based Restricted Stock Units, by having the Company withhold a portion of the shares of Common Stock otherwise to be delivered having a Fair
Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes (but only to the extent of the minimum amount required to be withheld under applicable laws or regulations), unless, on or before the applicable vesting date, Participant notifies the Company that
Participant has elected, and makes appropriate arrangements, to deliver cash, check (bank check, certified check or personal check) or money order payable to the Company.      10.  Miscellaneous .      (a) This Award does not confer on Participant any right
with respect to the continuance of any relationship with the Company or any Affiliate, nor will it interfere in any way with the right of the Company to terminate such relationship at any time.      (b) Neither the Plan nor this Award shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary
relationship between the Company and Participant or any other Person. To the extent that any Person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any Affiliate pursuant to an Award, such right shall be no greater than the right of any
unsecured creditor of the Company or any Affiliate.      (c) The Company shall not be required to deliver any shares of
Common Stock upon the vesting of any Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units until the requirements of any federal or state securities laws, rules or regulations or other  
       
   7   

laws or rules (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable have been and continue to be satisfied
(including an effective registration of the shares under federal and state securities laws).      (d) An original record of
this Award and all the terms hereof, executed by the Company, is held on file by the Company. To the extent there is any conflict between the terms contained in this Award and the terms contained in the original held by the Company, the terms of the
original held by the Company shall control.      (e) If a court or arbitrator decides that any provision of this Award
certificate is invalid or overbroad, Participant agrees that the court or arbitrator should narrow such provision so that it is enforceable or, if narrowing is not possible or permissible, such provision should be considered severed and the other
provisions of this Award certificate should be unaffected.      (f) Participant agrees that (i) legal remedies (money
damages) for any breach of the Restrictive Covenants in Section 7 will be inadequate, (ii) the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable harm from any such breach, and (iii) the Company will be entitled to injunctive relief from a
court in addition to any legal remedies the Company may seek in arbitration.      (g) The Restrictive Covenants in
Section 7 and the provisions regarding the forfeiture of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units and shares of Common Stock shall survive termination of the Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units.      (h) The validity, construction and effect of this Award and any rules and regulations relating to this Award shall be determined in
accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota (without regard to its conflict of law principles).      (i) The vesting and
settlement of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units pursuant to this Award is intended to qualify for the  short-term deferral  exemption from Section 409A of the Code. The Company reserves the right, to the extent the Company
deems necessary or advisable in its sole discretion, to unilaterally amend or modify the Plan and/or this Award certificate to ensure that the Award is made in a manner that qualifies for exemption from or complies with Section 409A of the
Code; provided however, that the Company makes no representations that the Award will be exempt from Section 409A of the Code and makes no undertaking to preclude Section 409A of the Code from applying to this Award.         
   8   

</EX-10.11>

<EX-10.12>
 8
 dex1012.htm
 AMENDED AND RESTATED UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INCORPORATED EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE PLAN

Amended and Restated UnitedHealth Group Incorporated Executive Incentive Plan 

Exhibit 10.12        AMENDED AND RESTATED        UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INCORPORATED        EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE PLAN (2009 STATEMENT)        SECTION 1. ESTABLISHMENT.       On February 12, 2002, the Board of Directors of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, upon
recommendation by the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors, approved an executive incentive plan for executives as described herein (the  UnitedHealth Group Executive Incentive Plan ). This Plan was
submitted for approval by the shareholders of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated at the 2002 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and became effective as of January 1, 2002 after approval by the shareholders, and no benefits were issued pursuant thereto
until after this Plan had been approved by the shareholders. On April 17, 2007, this Plan was amended and restated to revise this Section 1, include a new defined term in Section 3(i) and include a new Section 10 (Potential
Repayment of Awards). All subsequent Sections were renumbered accordingly to reflect the new Section 10. Effective December 31, 2008, the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors amended the UnitedHealth Group
Executive Incentive Plan for purposes of establishing documentary compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and its accompanying regulations ( Section 409A of the Code ), and to permit ongoing operational
compliance with the requirements of Section 409A.       SECTION 2. PURPOSE.       The purpose of this Plan is to advance the interests of the Company and its shareholders by attracting and retaining key employees, and by stimulating the
efforts of such employees to contribute to the continued success and growth of the business of the Company.       SECTION 3. DEFINITIONS.
      When the following terms are used herein with initial capital letters, they shall have the following meanings:      (a)  Annual Incentive Award  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5 hereof.      (b)  Base Salary  shall mean a Participant s annualized base salary, as determined by the Committee, as of the last day of September of a
Performance Period.      (c)  Code  shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as it may be amended from time to time, and any
proposed, temporary or final Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.      (d)  Committee  shall mean the Compensation and Human
Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company designated by such Board to administer the Plan which shall consist of members appointed from time to time by the Board of Directors. Each member of the Committee shall be an  outside
director  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.      (e)  Company  shall mean UnitedHealth Group Incorporated,
a Minnesota corporation, and any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, whether now or hereafter established.      (f)  Earnings  shall
mean the Company s net earnings computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as reported in the Company s consolidated financial statements for the applicable Performance Period, adjusted to eliminate (1) the
cumulative effect of changes in generally accepted accounting principles; (2) gains and losses from discontinued operations; (3) extraordinary gains or losses; and (4) any other unusual or nonrecurring losses which are separately
identified and quantified in the Company s financial statements, including merger related charges.         
   1   

(g)  Earnings Per Share  or  EPS  shall mean the Company s earnings per share
computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as in effect from time to time, as reported in the Company s consolidated financial statements for the applicable Performance Period, adjusted in the same fashion that
Earnings are to be adjusted as provided in Section 3(f) hereof.      (h)  Maximum Annual Incentive Award  shall mean a dollar
amount equal to one percent (1.00%) of the Company s Earnings for the Performance Period.      (i)  Misconduct  shall mean
a Participant s (a) violation of, or failure to act upon or report known or suspected violations of, the Company s Principles of Integrity and Compliance, or (b) commission of any illegal, fraudulent, or dishonest act or gross
negligent or intentional misrepresentation in connection with the Participant s employment.      (j)  Participant  shall mean
any executive officer of the Company who is designated by the Committee, as provided for herein, to participate with respect to a Performance Period as a Participant in this Plan. Directors of the Company who are not also employees of the Company
are not eligible to participate in the Plan.      (k)  Performance Award  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6 hereof.
     (l)  Performance Period  shall mean (i) for an Annual Incentive Award, each consecutive twelve-month period commencing on
January 1 of each year during the term of this Plan and coinciding with the Company s fiscal year; and (ii) for a Performance Award, such period or periods as shall be specified from time to time by the Committee.      (m)  Performance Threshold  shall, with respect to Annual Incentive Awards, mean one or more pre-established, objective performance goals
selected by the Committee with respect to each Performance Period and which shall be based solely on Earnings Per Share.      (n)
 Plan  shall mean this Amended and Restated UnitedHealth Group Incorporated Executive Incentive Plan (2009 Statement).      (o)
 Return on Equity  shall mean the Company s return on equity computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as in effect from time to time, as reported in the Company s consolidated financial statements for
the applicable Performance Period, adjusted in the same fashion that Earnings are to be adjusted as provided in Section 3(f) hereof.      (p)  Target Award  shall mean a percentage, which may be greater or less than 100%, as determined by the Committee with respect to each Performance Period.       SECTION 4. ADMINISTRATION.       (a)
 Power and Authority of Committee . The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall have full power and authority, subject to all the applicable provisions of the Plan and applicable law, to (i) establish, amend,
suspend or waive such rules and regulations and appoint such agents as it deems necessary or advisable for the proper administration of the Plan, (ii) construe, interpret and administer the Plan and any instrument or agreement relating to the
Plan, and (iii) make all other determinations and take all other actions necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. Unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, each determination made and each action taken by the Committee
pursuant to the Plan or any instrument or agreement relating to the Plan (x) shall be within the sole discretion of the Committee, (y) may be made at any time and (z) shall be final, binding and conclusive for all purposes on all
persons, including, but not limited to, Participants and their legal representatives and beneficiaries, and employees of the Company.         
   2   

(b)  Determinations Made Prior to Each Performance Period . At any time ending on or before the 90th
calendar day of each Performance Period, the Committee shall:      (i) with respect to Annual Incentive Awards,
(A) designate all Participants and their Target Awards for such Performance Period, and (B) establish one or more Performance Thresholds, based solely on EPS; and      (ii) with respect to Performance Awards, (A) designate all Participants, their target and maximum awards for such Performance Period,
and (B) establish the objective performance factors for each Participant for that Performance Period on the basis of one or more of the criteria set forth in Section 6(a) below.      (c)  Certification . Following the close of each Performance Period and prior to payment of any amount to any Participant under the Plan, the
Committee must certify in writing:      (i) with respect to Annual Incentive Awards, (A) the Company s Earnings and
EPS for that Performance Period and (B) as to the attainment of all other factors upon which any payments to a Participant for that Performance Period are to be based; and      (ii) with respect to Performance Awards, as to the attainment of all factors (including the performance factors for a Participant) upon
which any payments to a Participant for that Performance Period are to be based.       SECTION 5. ANNUAL INCENTIVE AWARDS.       From time to time, the Committee may grant annual incentive awards under the Plan payable to Participants in cash (an  Annual Incentive Award ).
Annual Incentive Awards shall be granted in accordance with the following provisions:      (a)  Formula . In the event that the
Company s EPS for a Performance Period is equal to or exceeds a designated Performance Threshold for that Performance Period, then each Participant shall receive an Annual Incentive Award for that Performance Period in an amount not greater
than      (i) the Participant s Base Salary for the Performance Period, multiplied by      (ii) the Participant s Target Award for the Performance Period;      provided, however, that in the event that the Company s EPS for a Performance Period exceeds the highest designated Performance Threshold for that Performance Period, then each Participant shall receive an Annual
Incentive Award for that Performance Period in an amount not greater than the Maximum Annual Incentive Award for that Performance Period.      (b)  Limitations .      (i)  Discretionary Reduction . The Committee shall retain sole and full discretion to
reduce by any amount the Annual Incentive Award otherwise payable to any Participant under this Plan.      (ii)  Continued
Employment . No Annual Incentive Award shall be paid to a Participant who is not actively employed by the Company at the time the Annual Incentive Award otherwise would be paid except in the case of retirement, death or permanent disability. If a
Participant retires before the end of a Performance Period or after the end of a Performance Period but before an Annual Incentive Award is paid, the Committee may, in its discretion, determine that the Participant shall be paid a pro rated portion
of the Annual Incentive Award that the Participant would have received but for such retirement. If a Participant dies or becomes permanently and totally disabled before the end of a Performance Period or after the end of a Performance Period but
before an Annual Incentive Award is paid, the Committee may, in its discretion, determine that the Participant (or, in the case of death, the Participant s estate) shall be paid a pro rated portion of the Annual Incentive Award that the
Participant would have received but for such death or disability. The Committee shall determine the Participant s date of disability in a manner consistent with  
       
   3   

Company practices. Any pro-rated Annual Incentive Award that becomes payable pursuant to this Section 5(b)(ii) shall be paid at the same time as other
Annual Incentive Awards with respect to the applicable Performance Period.      (iii)  Maximum Payments . No Participant
shall receive an Annual Incentive Award under this Plan for any Performance Period in excess of the Maximum Annual Incentive Award for that Performance Period.      (c)  Payment of Annual Incentive Award . Subject to any deferred compensation election pursuant to any such plans of the Company applicable hereto, benefits shall be paid to the Participant in cash as soon as
administratively feasible upon the completion of a Performance Period, after the Committee has certified that the Performance Threshold has been attained, determined the Maximum Annual Incentive Award for that Performance Period and made the other
certifications provided for in Section 4(c)(i) hereof. Such payments will be made between January 1 and March 15 of the year following the end of the Performance Period.       SECTION 6. PERFORMANCE AWARDS.       From
time to time, the Committee may grant Performance Awards under the Plan payable in cash or in shares of the Company, other securities or other property (a  Performance Award ). Performance Awards that are payable in shares of the Company,
other securities or other property shall be payable pursuant to the UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. Performance Awards shall be  qualified performance-based compensation  within the meaning of Section 162(m)
of the Code. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, the following additional requirements shall apply to all Performance Awards made to any Participant under this Plan:      (a)  Business Criteria . The business criteria to be used for purposes of establishing performance goals for Performance Awards, the attainment of
which may determine the amount and/or vesting with respect to Performance Awards, will be selected from the following alternatives (unless and until the Committee proposes for shareholder approval and the Company s shareholders approve a change
in such criteria), each of which may be based on absolute standards or comparisons versus specified companies or groups of companies and may be applied at individual or various organizational levels (for example, the Company as a whole or identified
business units, segments or the like): revenue growth, Return on Equity, operating cash flows, Earnings per Share, and operating margin.      In the event that Code Section 162(m) or applicable tax and/or securities laws change to permit Committee discretion to alter the governing performance measures without disclosing to shareholders and obtaining shareholder approval of
such changes and without thereby exposing the Company to potentially adverse tax or other legal consequences, the Committee shall have the sole discretion to make such changes without obtaining shareholder approval.      (b)  Target and Range; Maximum Performance Award . The target and range of a Participant s possible Performance Awards established by the
Committee shall be between zero and 300% of the Participant s average base compensation. For this purpose, average base compensation shall be the Participant s total salary earned during the applicable Performance Period (or such lower
amount as determined by the Committee) divided by the number of years in the Performance Period. The maximum bonus which may be paid to any Participant pursuant to any Performance Award with respect to any Performance Period shall not exceed
$10,000,000.      (c)  Payment of Performance Awards . Performance Awards shall be paid between January 1 and March 15 of the
year following the conclusion of the applicable Performance Period. The Committee may, in its discretion, reduce the amount of a payout otherwise to be made in connection with a Performance Award, but may not exercise discretion to increase such
amount. If permitted by applicable law, payments of Performance Awards may be deferred into the Company s Executive Savings Plan in accordance with rules established by the Committee.      (d)  Certain Events . No Performance Award shall be paid to a Participant who is not actively employed by the Company at the time the Performance
Award otherwise would be paid except in the case of retirement as provided for in (e) below, death or disability as provided for in (f) below, or in the event of a Change in Control as provided for in (g) below.         
   4   

(e) If a Participant retires before the end of a Performance Period or after the end of a Performance
Period but before a Performance Award is paid, the Committee may, in its discretion, determine that the Participant shall be paid a pro rated portion of the Performance Award that the Participant would have received but for such retirement. In such
event, (i) the pro-rationing shall be based on the portion of such Performance Period prior to the Participant s retirement, and (ii) the measurement of Company and Participant performance shall be based on performance through the end
of the fiscal year of the Company which ends closest to the Participant s date of retirement. The Committee shall determine the Participant s date of retirement in a manner consistent with Company practices. Any such pro rated Performance
Award shall be paid at the same time as other Performance Awards with respect to the applicable Performance Period.      (f) If a Participant
dies or becomes permanently and totally disabled before the end of a Performance Period or after the end of a Performance Period but before a Performance Award is paid, the Committee may, in its discretion, determine that the Participant (or, in the
case of death, the Participant s estate) shall be paid a pro rated portion of the Performance Award that the Participant would have received but for such death or disability. In such event, (i) the pro rationing shall be based on the
portion of such Performance Period prior to the Participant s date of death or disability, and (ii) the measurement of Company and Participant performance shall be based on performance through the end of the fiscal year of the Company
which ends closest to such date. The Committee shall determine the Participant s date of disability in a manner consistent with Company practices. Any such pro rated Performance Award shall be paid at the same time as other Performance Awards
with respect to the applicable Performance Period.      (g) If a Change in Control (as defined below) occurs during a Performance Period or
after the end of a Performance Period but before a Performance Award is paid, the Company or its successor shall pay each Participant a pro rated portion of the maximum Performance Award for which such Participant is eligible with respect to each
such Performance Period. Such pro rationing shall be based on the proportion of each such Performance Period through the date of such Change in Control. If (i) such Change in Control constitutes a  change in the ownership,  a
 change in the effective control  or a  change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets  of the Company and/or one or more of its affiliates with respect to a Participant within the meaning of Section 409A of
the Code and (ii) a timely deferral election is not then in effect, any such Performance Awards shall be paid within 60 days of the occurrence of the event constituting such Change in Control; otherwise, such Performance Awards shall be paid at
the same time as Performance Awards with respect to the applicable Performance Period would ordinarily be paid. If a timely deferral election is then in effect upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, any such Performance Awards shall be deferred
into the Company s Executive Savings Plan. Any such Performance Award shall be paid regardless of whether the Participant is actively employed by the Company at the time the Performance Award is to be paid.  Change in Control  means
the occurrence of any of the following events:      (i) The acquisition by any person, entity or  group,  within the
meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, other than the Company or any of its affiliates, or any employee benefit plan of the Company and/or one or more of its affiliates, of beneficial ownership (within
the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of 20% or more of either the then outstanding shares of the Company s Common Stock or the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding voting
securities in a transaction or series of transactions not approved in advance by a vote of at least three-quarters of the Continuing Directors (as hereinafter defined).      (ii) Individuals who, as of January 1, 2002 constitute the Board of Directors of the Company (generally the  Directors 
and, as of January 1, 2002, the  Continuing Directors ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority thereof (provided that any person becoming a Director subsequent to January 1, 2002 whose nomination for election was
approved in advance by a vote of at least three-quarters of the Continuing Directors (other than a nomination of an individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened solicitation with respect to the election
or removal of the Directors of the Company, as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) shall be deemed to be a Continuing Director).         
   5   

(iii) The approval by the shareholders of the Company of a reorganization, merger,
consolidation, liquidation or dissolution of the Company or of the sale (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company other than a reorganization, merger, consolidation,
liquidation, dissolution or sale approved in advance by a vote of at least three-quarters of the Continuing Directors.      (iv)
The first purchase under any tender offer or exchange offer (other than an offer by the Company or any of its affiliates) pursuant to which shares of the Company s Common Stock are purchased.      (v) At least a majority of the Continuing Directors determine in their sole discretion that there has been a change in control of the
Company.       SECTION 7. AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION; ADJUSTMENTS.       Except to the extent prohibited by applicable law and unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan:      (a)  Amendments to the Plan . The Committee may amend this Plan prospectively at any time and for any reason deemed sufficient by it without notice
to any person affected by this Plan and may likewise terminate or curtail the benefits of this Plan both with regard to persons expecting to receive benefits hereunder in the future and persons already receiving benefits at the time of such action,
provided, however, that Section 6(g) of this Plan shall not be amended, or its benefits terminated or curtailed, with respect to any Performance Period during which a Change in Control occurs, occurred, or is anticipated to occur.   
  (b)  Correction of Defects, Omissions and Inconsistencies . The Committee may correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any
inconsistency in the Plan in the manner and to the extent it shall deem desirable to carry the Plan into effect.       SECTION 8.
NONTRANSFERABILITY.       Participants and beneficiaries shall not have the right to assign, encumber or otherwise anticipate the payments to
be made under this Plan, and the benefits provided hereunder shall not be subject to seizure for payment of any debts or judgments against any Participant or any beneficiary.       SECTION 9. TAX WITHHOLDING.       In order
to comply with all applicable federal or state income, social security, payroll, withholding or other tax laws or regulations, the Committee may establish such policy or policies s it deems appropriate with respect to such laws and regulations,
including without limitation, the establishment of policies to ensure that all applicable federal or state income, social security, payroll, withholding or other taxes, which are the sole and absolute responsibility of the Participant, are withheld
or collected from such Participant.       SECTION 10. POTENTIAL REPAYMENT OF AWARDS.       Effective for Annual Incentive Awards and Performance Awards that are paid after April 17, 2007, Participants shall be required to repay the Company
any amounts previously paid in respect of such Annual Incentive Awards and Performance Awards (each of which is referred to herein as an  Incentive Payment ) plus interest under the circumstances described in this Section 10. A
Participant s repayment obligation shall be triggered if the Board of Directors of the Company determines that (i) the Participant has engaged in fraud or Misconduct that, in whole or in part, caused the need for a material restatement of
the Company s consolidated financial statements, (ii) the Incentive Payment was based, in whole or in part, on achievement of financial results that were restated in connection with the restatement of the Company s consolidated
financial statements and (iii) the amount of the Incentive Payment to the Participant would have been less if it had been based on the restated consolidated financial statements. In each such instance described in the preceding sentence, the
Participant shall repay to the Company, upon demand, the full amount of such Incentive Payment, plus interest at a rate per annum equal to 110% of the applicable short-term federal rate under Section 1274(d) of the Code in effect for the month
in  
       
   6   

which such Incentive Payment was paid to the Participant. For the avoidance of doubt, a Participant shall be required to repay the full amount of such
Incentive Payment, and not just the amount by which the amount of the Incentive Payment exceeded the amount that would have been paid to the Participant with respect to the corresponding Annual Incentive Award or Performance Award based on the
corrected and restated financial results. The provisions in this Section 10 are essential economic conditions to each grant of an Annual Incentive Award and Performance Award made under the Plan. By participating in this Plan and receiving
Annual Incentive Awards and/or Performance Awards hereunder, each Participant agrees to be bound by the terms of the Plan, including this Section 10, and agrees that the Company may deduct from any amounts it owes the Participant from time to
time (such as wages or other compensation, deferred compensation credits, vacation pay, any severance or other payments owed following a termination of employment, as well as any other amounts owed to the Participant by the Company) to the extent of
any amounts a Participant owes the Company under this Section 10. The provisions of this Section 10 and any amounts repayable by a Participant hereunder are intended to be in addition to any rights to repayment the Company may have under
Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other applicable law.       SECTION 11. SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL.       The material terms of this Plan shall be disclosed to and approved by shareholders of the Company in accordance with Section 162(m) of the Code. No
amount shall be paid to any Participant under this Plan unless such shareholder approval has been obtained. No award under this Plan shall be granted more than five years after the Company s 2002 annual meeting of shareholders unless
shareholders have re-approved the Plan to the extent required by Section 162(m) of the Code.       SECTION 12. MISCELLANEOUS.
      (a)  Effective Date . Except as specifically provided herein, this Plan shall be deemed effective, subject to shareholder
approval, as of January 1, 2002.      (b)  Headings . Headings are given to the Sections and subsections of the Plan solely as a
convenience to facilitate reference. Such headings shall not be deemed in any way material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of the Plan or any provision thereof.      (c)  Applicability to Successors . This Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company and each Participant, the successors and
assigns of the Company, and the beneficiaries, personal representatives and heirs of each Participant. If the Company becomes a party to any merger, consolidation or reorganization, this Plan shall remain in full force and effect as an obligation of
the Company or its successors in interest.      (d)  Employment Rights and Other Benefit Programs . The provisions of this Plan shall not
give any Participant any right to be retained in the employment of the Company. In the absence of any specific agreement to the contrary, this Plan shall not affect any right of the Company, or of any affiliate of the Company, to terminate, with or
without cause, any Participant s employment at any time. This Plan shall not replace any contract of employment, whether oral or written, between the Company and any Participant, but shall be considered a supplement thereto. This Plan is in
addition to, and not in lieu of, any other employee benefit plan or program in which any Participant may be or become eligible to participate by reason of employment with the Company. No compensation or benefit awarded to or realized by any
Participant under the Plan shall be included for the purpose of computing such Participant s compensation under any compensation-based retirement, disability, or similar plan of the Company unless required by law or otherwise provided by such
other plan.      (e)  No Trust or Fund Created . This Plan shall not create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind
or a fiduciary relationship between the Company or any affiliate and a Participant or any other person. To the extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any affiliate pursuant to this Plan, such right shall be
no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Company or of any affiliate.         
   7   

(f)  Governing Law . The validity, construction and effect of the Plan or any incentive payment
payable under the Plan shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota.      (g)  Severability . If any
provision of the Plan is or becomes or is deemed to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to conform to applicable laws, or if it cannot be so construed or deemed amended
without, in the determination of the Committee, materially altering the purpose or intent of the Plan, such provision shall be stricken as to such jurisdiction, and the remainder of the Plan shall remain in full force and effect.      (h)  Qualified Performance-Based Compensation . All of the terms and conditions of the Plan shall be interpreted in such a fashion as to qualify all
compensation paid hereunder as  qualified performance-based compensation  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.      (i)  Six Month Delay . Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, if the Participant is a  specified employee  (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code and determined pursuant to procedures adopted by
the Company) at the time of the Participant s  separation from service  (as defined in Section 409A of the Code and Treasury Regulations Section 1.409A-1(h) without regard to the optional alternative definitions available
thereunder), any payments under the Plan that constitute a deferral of compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code) shall not be paid to the Participant until the later of (i) six months after the date of the
Participant s  separation from service , and (ii) the payment date or commencement date specified in the Plan for such payment(s). On the first regular payroll date following the expiration of such six-month period (or if the
Participant dies during the 6-month period, the first payroll date following the death), any payments that were delayed pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be paid to the Participant in a single lump sum and thereafter all payments shall be
made as if there had been no such delay.      (j)  Section 409A . It is intended that any amounts payable under this Plan shall
either be exempt from Section 409A of the Code or shall comply with Section 409A of the Code (including Treasury Regulations and other published guidance related thereto) so as not to subject Participants to payment of any additional tax,
penalty, or interest imposed under Section 409A of the Code. The Plan shall be construed in a manner to give effect to such intention. In no event whatsoever shall the Company and/or any of its affiliates be liable for any tax, interest or
penalties that may be imposed on any Participant (or any Participant s estate) under Section 409A of the Code. Neither the Company and/or any of its affiliates shall have any obligation to indemnify or otherwise hold a Participant (or any
Participant s estate) harmless from any or all such taxes, interest or penalties, or liability for any damages related thereto.         
   8   

</EX-10.12>

<EX-10.13>
 9
 dex1013.htm
 AMENDED AND RESTATED UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INCORP. 2008 EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE PLAN

Amended and Restated UnitedHealth Group Incorp. 2008 Executive Incentive Plan 

Exhibit 10.13        AMENDED AND RESTATED UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INCORPORATED        2008 EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE PLAN    
   SECTION 1. ESTABLISHMENT.       On
February 19, 2008, the Board of Directors of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, upon recommendation by the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors, approved this executive incentive plan for executives as described
herein (the  UnitedHealth Group Executive Incentive Plan ). Effective December 31, 2008, the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors amended and restated the UnitedHealth Group Executive Incentive Plan for
purposes of establishing documentary compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and its accompanying regulations ( Section 409A of the Code ), and to permit ongoing operational compliance with the requirements
of Section 409A.       SECTION 2. PURPOSE.       The purpose of this Plan is to advance the interests of the Company and its shareholders by attracting and retaining key employees, and by stimulating the efforts of such employees to contribute to the continued
success and growth of the business of the Company.       SECTION 3. DEFINITIONS.       When the following terms are used herein with initial capital letters, they shall have the following meanings:      (a)  Annual Incentive Award  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5 hereof.      (b)  Base Salary  shall mean a Participant s annualized base salary, as determined by the Committee, as of the last day of September of a
Performance Period.      (c)  Annual Bonus Pool  shall mean 2% of Net Income for the Performance Period.      (d)  Code  shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as it may be amended from time to time, and any proposed, temporary or final Treasury
Regulations promulgated thereunder.      (e)  Committee  shall mean the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of
Directors of the Company designated by such Board to administer the Plan which shall consist of members appointed from time to time by the Board of Directors. Each member of the Committee shall be an  outside director  within the meaning
of Section 162(m) of the Code.      (f)  Company  shall mean UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, a Minnesota corporation, and any
of its subsidiaries or affiliates, whether now or hereafter established.      (g)  Maximum Incentive Award  shall mean a dollar
amount equal to 25 % of the Annual Bonus Pool or Performance Bonus Pool, as the case may be.      (h)  Misconduct  shall mean a
Participant s (a) violation of, or failure to act upon or report known or suspected violations of, the Company s Principles of Integrity and Compliance, or (b) commission of any illegal, fraudulent, or dishonest act or gross
negligent or intentional misrepresentation in connection with the Participant s employment.   

(i)  Net Income  shall be computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
as reported in the Company s consolidated financial statements for the applicable Performance Period, adjusted to eliminate (1) the cumulative effect of changes in generally accepted accounting principles; (2) gains and losses from
discontinued operations; (3) extraordinary gains or losses; and (4) any other unusual or nonrecurring losses which are separately identified and quantified in the Company s financial statements, including merger related charges.
     (j)  Participant  shall mean any executive officer of the Company who is designated by the Committee, as provided for herein, to
participate with respect to a Performance Period as a Participant in this Plan. Directors of the Company who are not also employees of the Company are not eligible to participate in the Plan.      (k)  Performance Award  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6 hereof.      (l)  Performance Bonus Pool  shall mean 2% of Net Income for the Performance Period divided by the number of whole and partial years in the
Performance Period.      (m)  Performance Period  shall mean (i) for an Annual Incentive Award, each consecutive twelve-month
period commencing on January 1 of each year during the term of this Plan and coinciding with the Company s fiscal year; and (ii) for a Performance Award, such period or periods as shall be specified from time to time by the Committee.
     (n)  Plan  shall mean this Amended and Restated UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2008 Executive Incentive Plan.      (o)  Target Award  shall mean a percentage, which may be greater or less than 100%, as determined by the Committee with respect to each
Performance Period.       SECTION 4. ADMINISTRATION.       (a)  Power and Authority of Committee . The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall have full power and authority, subject to all the applicable provisions of the Plan and applicable law,
to (i) establish, amend, suspend or waive such rules and regulations and appoint such agents as it deems necessary or advisable for the proper administration of the Plan, (ii) construe, interpret and administer the Plan and any instrument
or agreement relating to the Plan, and (iii) make all other determinations and take all other actions necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. Unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, each determination made and each
action taken by the Committee pursuant to the Plan or any instrument or agreement relating to the Plan (x) shall be within the sole discretion of the Committee, (y) may be made at any time and (z) shall be final, binding and
conclusive for all purposes on all persons, including, but not limited to, Participants and their legal representatives and beneficiaries, and employees of the Company.      (b)  Determinations Made Prior to Each Performance Period . At any time ending on or before
the 90th calendar day of each Performance Period, the Committee shall (i) designate all Participants and their Target and maximum awards for such Performance Period, and (ii) establish the performance factors for each Participant for that
Performance Period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may designate a Participant after the 90   th    calendar day of a Performance Period, if
the Participant became eligible to participate in the Plan by reason of commencement of employment with the Company or a promotion, in each case after the 90   th    calendar day of the Performance Period.      (c)  Certification . Following the close of each Performance
Period and prior to payment of any amount to any Participant under the Plan, the Committee must certify in writing (i) the Company s Net Income for that Performance Period, (ii) as to the attainment of all factors upon which any
payments to a Participant for that Performance Period are to be based and (iii) and the amount to be paid to each Participant for that Performance Period.       SECTION 5. ANNUAL INCENTIVE AWARDS.       (a) From time to time, the Committee may grant annual incentive
awards under the Plan payable to Participants in cash (an  Annual Incentive Award ) subject to the terms of Sections 4(b)(i) and 4(c)(i).      (i)  Discretionary Reduction . The Committee shall retain sole and full discretion to reduce by any amount the Annual Incentive Award otherwise payable to any Participant under this Plan.         
   2   

(ii)  Continued Employment . No Annual Incentive Award shall be paid to a
Participant who is not actively employed by the Company at the time the Annual Incentive Award otherwise would be paid except in the case of retirement, death or permanent disability. If a Participant retires before the end of a Performance Period
or after the end of a Performance Period but before an Annual Incentive Award is paid, the Committee may, in its discretion, determine that the Participant shall be paid a pro rated portion of the Annual Incentive Award that the Participant would
have received but for such retirement. If a Participant dies or becomes permanently and totally disabled before the end of a Performance Period or after the end of a Performance Period but before an Annual Incentive Award is paid, the Committee may,
in its discretion, determine that the Participant (or, in the case of death, the Participant s estate) shall be paid a pro rated portion of the Annual Incentive Award that the Participant would have received but for such death or disability.
The Committee shall determine the Participant s date of disability in a manner consistent with Company practices. Any pro-rated Annual Incentive Award that becomes payable pursuant to this Section 5(a)(ii) shall be paid at the same time as
other Annual Incentive Awards with respect to the applicable Performance Period.      (iii)  Maximum Payments . No
Participant shall receive an Annual Incentive Award under this Plan for any Performance Period in excess of the Maximum Incentive Award for that Performance Period.      (iv)  Annual Limit on Maximum Payment . The maximum Annual Incentive Award
payable to each Participant for an annual Performance Period shall be set by the Compensation Committee as a percentage of the Annual Bonus Pool, the sum of which percentages shall not exceed 100 percent. If the Compensation Committee does not set
an annual percentage limit for each Participant for an annual Performance Period, the individual percentage of each Participant shall be the percentage such Participant s Base Salary on the 90   th    day of the Performance Period is of the cumulative Base Salaries of all Participants on the 90   th    day. If a Participant is made eligible for an Annual Incentive Award after the 90   th    day of the Performance Period,
each Participant s individual percentage shall be adjusted pro rata to be equal to the percentage that each such Participant s cumulative Base Salary on the 90   th    day of the Performance Period (except the newly eligible Participant s Base Salary shall be as of the date of initial eligibility) is of the cumulative Base Salaries of all Participants on the 90   th    day (except the newly eligible Participant s Base Salary shall be as of the date of initial eligibility).      (b)  Payment of Annual Incentive Award . Subject to any deferred compensation election pursuant to any such plans of the Company applicable hereto,
benefits shall be paid to the Participant in cash as soon as administratively feasible upon the completion of a Performance Period, after the Committee has made the certifications provided for in Section 4(c) hereof. Such payments will be made
between January 1 and March 15 of the year following the end of the Performance Period.       SECTION 6. PERFORMANCE AWARDS.  
     (a)  Performance Award Grants . From time to time, the Committee may grant Performance Awards under the Plan payable in cash (a
 Performance Award ) subject to the terms of Section 4(b)(ii).      (i)  Discretionary Reduction . The
Committee shall retain sole and full discretion to reduce by any amount the Performance Award otherwise payable to any Participant under this Plan.      (ii)  Continued Employment . No Performance Award shall be paid to a Participant who is not actively employed by the Company at the time the Performance Award otherwise would be paid except in the case of death,
permanent disability, retirement or a Change in Control. If a Participant retires before the end of a Performance Period or after the end of a Performance Period but before a Performance Award is paid, the Committee may, in its discretion, determine
that the Participant shall be paid a pro rated portion of the Performance Award that the Participant would have received but for such retirement. Any such pro rated Performance Award shall be paid at the same time as other Performance Awards with
respect to the applicable Performance Period.      (iii)  Maximum Payments . No Participant shall receive a Performance
Award under this Plan for any Performance Period in excess of the Maximum Incentive Award for that Performance Period.      (iv)
 Limit on Maximum Payment of Performance Award . The maximum Performance Award payable to each Participant for a Performance Period shall be set by the Compensation Committee as a percentage of the Performance  
       
   3   

Bonus Pool, the sum of which percentages shall not exceed 100 percent. If the Compensation Committee does not set an annual percentage limit for each
Participant for a Performance Period, the individual percentage of each Participant shall be the percentage such Participant s Base Salary on the 90   th    day of the Performance Period is of the cumulative Base Salaries of all Participants on the 90   th    day. If a Participant is made eligible
for a Performance Award after the 90   th    day of the Performance Period, each Participant s individual percentage shall be adjusted pro rata to be
equal to the percentage that each such Participant s cumulative Base Salary on the 90   th    day of the Performance Period (except the newly
eligible Participant s Base Salary shall be as of the date of initial eligibility) is of the cumulative Base Salaries of all Participants on the 90   th    day (except the newly eligible Participant s Base Salary shall be as of the date of initial eligibility).      (b)  Payment of
Performance Award . Subject to any deferred compensation election pursuant to any such plans of the Company applicable hereto, benefits shall be paid to the Participant in cash as soon as administratively feasible upon the completion of a
Performance Period, after the Committee has made the certifications provided for in Section 4(c) hereof. Such payments will be made between January 1 and March 15 of the year following the end of the Performance Period.      (c)  Death or Disability . If a Participant dies or becomes permanently and totally disabled before the end of a Performance Period or after the end
of a Performance Period but before a Performance Award is paid, the Committee may, in its discretion, determine that the Participant (or, in the case of death, the Participant s estate) shall be paid a pro rated portion of the Performance Award
that the Participant would have received but for such death or disability. In such event, (i) the pro rationing shall be based on the portion of such Performance Period prior to the Participant s date of death or disability, and
(ii) the measurement of Company and Participant performance shall be based on performance through the end of the fiscal year of the Company which ends closest to such date. The Committee shall determine the Participant s date of disability
in a manner consistent with Company practices. Any such pro rated Performance Award shall be paid at the same time as other Performance Awards with respect to the applicable Performance Period.      (d)  Change in Control . If a Change in Control (as defined below) occurs during a Performance Period or after the end of a Performance Period but
before a Performance Award is paid, the Company or its successor shall pay each Participant a pro rated portion of the maximum Performance Award for which such Participant is eligible with respect to each such Performance Period. Such pro rationing
shall be based on the proportion of each such Performance Period through the date of such Change in Control. If (i) such Change in Control constitutes a  change in the ownership,  a  change in the effective control  or a
 change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets  of the Company and/or one or more of its affiliates with respect to a Participant within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code and (ii) a timely deferral election
is not then in effect, any such Performance Awards shall be paid within 60 days of the occurrence of the event constituting such Change in Control; otherwise, such Performance Awards shall be paid at the same time as Performance Awards with respect
to the applicable Performance Period would ordinarily be paid. If a timely deferral election is then in effect upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, any such Performance Awards shall be deferred into the Company s Executive Savings Plan.
Any such Performance Award shall be paid regardless of whether the Participant is actively employed by the Company at the time the Performance Award is to be paid.  Change in Control  means the occurrence of any of the following events:
     (i) The acquisition by any person, entity or  group,  within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, other than the Company or any of its affiliates, or any employee benefit plan of the Company and/or one or more of its affiliates, of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of 20% or more of either the then outstanding shares of the Company s Common Stock or the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding voting securities in a transaction or series of transactions
not approved in advance by a vote of at least three-quarters of the Continuing Directors (as hereinafter defined).      (ii)
Individuals who, as of January 1, 2008 constitute the Board of Directors of the Company (generally the  Directors  and, as of January 1, 2008, the  Continuing Directors ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a
majority thereof (provided that any person becoming a Director subsequent to January 1, 2008 whose nomination for election was approved in advance by a vote of at least three-quarters of the Continuing Directors (other than a nomination of an
individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened solicitation with respect to the election or removal of the Directors of the Company, as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934) shall be deemed to be a Continuing Director).         
   4   

(iii) The approval by the shareholders of the Company of a reorganization, merger,
consolidation, liquidation or dissolution of the Company or of the sale (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company other than a reorganization, merger, consolidation,
liquidation, dissolution or sale approved in advance by a vote of at least three-quarters of the Continuing Directors.      (iv)
The first purchase under any tender offer or exchange offer (other than an offer by the Company or any of its affiliates) pursuant to which shares of the Company s Common Stock are purchased.      (v) At least a majority of the Continuing Directors determine in their sole discretion that there has been a change in control of the
Company.       SECTION 7. AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION; ADJUSTMENTS.       Except to the extent prohibited by applicable law and unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan:      (a)  Amendments to the Plan . The Committee may amend this Plan prospectively at any time and for any reason deemed sufficient by it without notice
to any person affected by this Plan and may likewise terminate or curtail the benefits of this Plan both with regard to persons expecting to receive benefits hereunder in the future and persons already receiving benefits at the time of such action,
provided, however, that Section 6(d) of this Plan shall not be amended, or its benefits terminated or curtailed, with respect to any Performance Period during which a Change in Control occurs, occurred, or is anticipated to occur.   
  (b)  Correction of Defects, Omissions and Inconsistencies . The Committee may correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any
inconsistency in the Plan in the manner and to the extent it shall deem desirable to carry the Plan into effect.       SECTION 8.
NONTRANSFERABILITY.       Participants and beneficiaries shall not have the right to assign, encumber or otherwise anticipate the payments to
be made under this Plan, and the benefits provided hereunder shall not be subject to seizure for payment of any debts or judgments against any Participant or any beneficiary.       SECTION 9. TAX WITHHOLDING.       In order
to comply with all applicable federal or state income, social security, payroll, withholding or other tax laws or regulations, the Committee may establish such policy or policies as it deems appropriate with respect to such laws and regulations,
including without limitation, the establishment of policies to ensure that all applicable federal or state income, social security, payroll, withholding or other taxes, which are the sole and absolute responsibility of the Participant, are withheld
or collected from such Participant.       SECTION 10. POTENTIAL REPAYMENT OF AWARDS.       Participants shall be required to repay the Company any amounts previously paid in respect of such Annual Incentive Awards and Performance Awards (each of
which is referred to herein as an  Incentive Payment ) plus interest under the circumstances described in this Section 10. A Participant s repayment obligation shall be triggered if the Board of Directors of the Company
determines that: (i) the Participant has engaged in fraud or Misconduct that, in whole or in part, caused the need for a material restatement of the Company s consolidated financial statements, (ii) the Incentive Payment was based, in
whole or in part, on achievement of financial results that were restated in connection with the restatement of the Company s consolidated financial statements and (iii) the amount of the Incentive Payment to the Participant would have been
less if it had been based on the restated consolidated financial statements. In each such instance described in the preceding sentence, the Participant shall repay to the Company, upon demand, the full amount of such Incentive Payment, plus interest
at a rate per  
       
   5   

annum equal to 110% of the applicable short-term federal rate under Section 1274(d) of the Code in effect for the month in which such Incentive Payment
was paid to the Participant. For the avoidance of doubt, a Participant shall be required to repay the full amount of such Incentive Payment, and not just the amount by which the amount of the Incentive Payment exceeded the amount that would have
been paid to the Participant with respect to the corresponding Annual Incentive Award or Performance Award based on the corrected and restated financial results. The provisions in this Section 10 are essential economic conditions to each grant
of an Annual Incentive Award and Performance Award made under the Plan. By participating in this Plan and receiving Annual Incentive Awards and/or Performance Awards hereunder, each Participant agrees to be bound by the terms of the Plan, including
this Section 10, and agrees that the Company may deduct from any amounts it owes the Participant from time to time (such as wages or other compensation, deferred compensation credits, vacation pay, any severance or other payments owed following
a termination of employment, as well as any other amounts owed to the Participant by the Company) to the extent of any amounts a Participant owes the Company under this Section 10. The provisions of this Section 10 and any amounts
repayable by a Participant hereunder are intended to be in addition to any rights to repayment the Company may have under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other applicable law.       SECTION 11. SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL.       The material terms pursuant to which bonus amounts are determined under this Plan shall be disclosed to and approved by shareholders of the Company in accordance with Section 162(m) of the Code.       SECTION 12. MISCELLANEOUS.       (a)
 Effective Date . Except as specifically provided herein, this Plan shall be deemed effective as of January 1, 2008.      (b)
 Headings . Headings are given to the Sections and subsections of the Plan solely as a convenience to facilitate reference. Such headings shall not be deemed in any way material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of the Plan or
any provision thereof.      (c)  Applicability to Successors . This Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company and
each Participant, the successors and assigns of the Company, and the beneficiaries, personal representatives and heirs of each Participant. If the Company becomes a party to any merger, consolidation or reorganization, this Plan shall remain in full
force and effect as an obligation of the Company or its successors in interest.      (d)  Employment Rights and Other Benefit Programs .
The provisions of this Plan shall not give any Participant any right to be retained in the employment of the Company. In the absence of any specific agreement to the contrary, this Plan shall not affect any right of the Company, or of any affiliate
of the Company, to terminate, with or without cause, any Participant s employment at any time. This Plan shall not replace any contract of employment, whether oral or written, between the Company and any Participant, but shall be considered a
supplement thereto. This Plan is in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other employee benefit plan or program in which any Participant may be or become eligible to participate by reason of employment with the Company. No compensation or benefit
awarded to or realized by any Participant under the Plan shall be included for the purpose of computing such Participant s compensation under any compensation-based retirement, disability, or similar plan of the Company unless required by law
or otherwise provided by such other plan.      (e)  No Trust or Fund Created . This Plan shall not create or be construed to create a
trust or separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company or any affiliate and a Participant or any other person. To the extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any affiliate pursuant
to this Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Company or of any affiliate.      (f)
 Governing Law . The validity, construction and effect of the Plan or any incentive payment payable under the Plan shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota.      (g)  Severability . If any provision of the Plan is or becomes or is deemed to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such
provision shall be construed or deemed amended to conform to applicable laws, or if it cannot be so construed or deemed amended without, in the determination of the Committee, materially altering the purpose or intent of the Plan, such provision
shall be stricken as to such jurisdiction, and the remainder of the Plan shall remain in full force and effect.         
   6   

(h)  Qualified Performance-Based Compensation . All of the terms and conditions of the Plan shall be
interpreted in such a fashion as to qualify all compensation paid hereunder as  qualified performance-based compensation  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.      (i)  Six Month Delay . Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, if the Participant is a  specified employee  (within the
meaning of Section 409A of the Code and determined pursuant to procedures adopted by the Company) at the time of the Participant s  separation from service  (as defined in Section 409A of the Code and Treasury Regulations
Section 1.409A-1(h) without regard to the optional alternative definitions available thereunder), any payments under the Plan that constitute a deferral of compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code) shall not be paid to
the Participant until the later of (i) six months after the date of the Participant s  separation from service , and (ii) the payment date or commencement date specified in the Plan for such payment(s). On the first regular
payroll date following the expiration of such six-month period (or if the Participant dies during the 6-month period, the first payroll date following the death), any payments that were delayed pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be paid to the
Participant in a single lump sum and thereafter all payments shall be made as if there had been no such delay.      (j)
 Section 409A . It is intended that any amounts payable under this Plan shall either be exempt from Section 409A of the Code or shall comply with Section 409A of the Code (including Treasury Regulations and other published
guidance related thereto) so as not to subject Participants to payment of any additional tax, penalty, or interest imposed under Section 409A of the Code. The Plan shall be construed in a manner to give effect to such intention. In no event
whatsoever shall the Company and/or any of its affiliates be liable for any tax, interest or penalties that may be imposed on any Participant (or any Participant s estate) under Section 409A of the Code. Neither the Company and/or any of
its affiliates shall have any obligation to indemnify or otherwise hold a Participant (or any Participant s estate) harmless from any or all such taxes, interest or penalties, or liability for any damages related thereto.         
   7   

</EX-10.13>

<EX-10.17>
 10
 dex1017.htm
 THIRD AMENDMENT TO UNITEDHEALTH GROUP EXECUTIVE SAVINGS PLAN

Third Amendment to UnitedHealth Group Executive Savings Plan 

Exhibit 10.17        THIRD AMENDMENT        OF        UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        EXECUTIVE SAVINGS PLAN        (2004 Statement)       WHEREAS,
UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, a Minnesota corporation ( UnitedHealth Group ), has heretofore established and maintains several nonqualified, deferred compensation programs (the  ESP ) for the benefit of a select group of
management or highly compensated employees of UnitedHealth Group and certain affiliates of UnitedHealth Group;      WHEREAS, Said programs are
currently embodied in a single document which is effective January 1, 2004, and which is entitled  UNITEDHEALTH GROUP EXECUTIVE SAVINGS PLAN (2004 Statement)  as amended by a First Amendment adopted on October 31, 2006
(hereinafter referred to as the  Plan Statement  and      WHEREAS, The Board of Directors of UnitedHealth Group has delegated to
the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors the power and authority to amend the Plan Statement; and      WHEREAS,
UnitedHealth Group wishes to amend the Plan Statement to provide for the following: (i) to reflect certain design changes (ii) to bring the ESP into compliance with requirements of the final regulations under section 409A of the Internal
Revenue Code, and (iii) to make other clarifying or administrative changes.      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, That the Plan Statement
is hereby amended in the following respects:       I. Compliance with Code Section 409A        1. DEFINITION OF SEPARATION FROM SERVICE. For Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2009, the definition of Section 1.2.21 of the Plan Statement shall
be amended to read in full as follows:       1.2.21.  Separation from Service    a severance of an employee s employment
relationship with the Employers and all Affiliates for any reason as defined in section 409A of the Code and Regulation   1.409A-1(h). The Employers shall determine whether an employee has incurred a Separation from Service in accordance
with section 409A of the Code and Regulation   1.409A-1(h).       2. DEFINITION OF SPECIFIED EMPLOYEES. For purposes of determining Specified
Employees for Specified Employee Effective Dates beginning on or after January 1, 2009, the definition of Specified Employee in Section 1.2.22 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:       1.2.22.  Specified Employee    an employee who, as of the date of the employee s Separation from Service, is a key employee of an Employer
or an Affiliate within the meaning of section 409A of the Code and determined pursuant to procedures adopted by UnitedHealth Group.       3. ELIGIBILITY
TO PARTICIPATE. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2008, Section 2 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:    

SECTION 2        ELIGIBILITY TO PARTICIPATE       2.1.  Selection for Participation in the Plan . Only employees who are in an
Eligible Grade Level, who are selected for participation in this Plan by the Executive Vice President, Human Capital (or, for a Section 16 Officer, by the Board of Directors) and who are notified that they are selected for participation shall
be eligible to become a Participant in this Plan. The Executive Vice President, Human Capital shall not select any employee for participation unless the Executive Vice President, Human Capital determines that such employee is a member of a select
group of management or highly compensated employees (as that expression is used in ERISA).      2.2.  Enrollment Requirements . As a condition to
participation, each selected employee who is eligible to participate in this Plan as of the first day of a Plan Year shall complete, execute and return to the Executive Vice President, Human Capital or his or her designee an election form prior to
the first day of such Plan Year, or such earlier deadline as may be established by the Executive Vice President, Human Capital or his or her designee.      Notwithstanding the foregoing, a selected employee who first becomes eligible to participate in this Plan (and all other like-type plans of the Employers and all Affiliates which are required to be aggregated for purposes section 409A
of the Code) after the first day of a Plan Year must complete these requirements within thirty (30) days after such employee first becomes eligible to participate in this Plan, or within such earlier deadline as may be established by the
Executive Vice President, Human Capital, in his or her sole discretion, in order to participate for such period. In such event, such employee s participation in this Plan shall not commence earlier than thirty (30) days after he or she is
notified of eligibility to participate in this Plan, and such employee shall not be permitted to defer under this Plan any portion of the employee s base salary or Incentive Award that are paid (or earned) with respect to services performed
prior to the employee s participation commencement date, except to the extent permissible under section 409A of the Code and the regulations issued thereunder.      Each selected employee who is eligible to participate in this Plan shall commence participation in this Plan only after the employee has met all enrollment requirements set forth in this Plan Statement and required by
Executive Vice President, Human Capital, including returning all required documents to the Executive Vice President, Human Capital within the specified time period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Executive Vice President, Human Capital or his or
her designee shall process such Participant s deferral elections as soon as administratively after such deferral elections are received by the Executive Vice President, Human Capital or his or her designee.      If an employee fails to meet all requirements contained in this Section 2.2 within the period required, that employee shall not be eligible to participate in this
Plan during such Plan Year.      2.3.  Special Eligibility Rule For Former Participants . If a Participant terminates employment with the Employer and all
Affiliates and such Participant:       

(a)  
  has been paid all amounts deferred under this Plan (and all other like-type plans of the Employers and all Affiliates which are required to be aggregated for purposes of
section 409A of the Code), and on and before the date of the last payment was not eligible to continue (or elect to continue) to participate in this Plan (and all other like-type plans of the Employers and all Affiliates which are required to
be aggregated for purposes of section 409A of the Code) for periods after the last payment,         

(b)  
  is subsequently reemployed by an Employer in an Eligible Grade Level, and         

(c)  
  is selected for participation in this Plan by the Executive Vice President, Human Capital (or, for a Section 16 Officer, by the Board of Directors),     
     
   -2-   

the Executive Vice President, Human Capital (or, for a Section 16 Officer, the Board of Directors) may designate
that such employee shall be allowed to reenter the Plan as a Participant as of a fixed prospective date that is other than the first day of a Plan Year so long as that prospective date is within thirty (30) days of selection. Such employee
shall be subject to the same enrollment requirements as any other selected employee who first becomes eligible to participate in this Plan after the first day of a Plan Year as provided in Section 2.2.      2.4.  Special Rule For Certain Employees of Acquired Companies . If an employee of any company that is acquired by an Employer or an Affiliate is a participant in
any account balance deferred compensation plan maintained by such acquired company and such employee:       

(a)  
  is employed in an Eligible Grade Level,         

(b)  
  has not been eligible to participate in any account balance deferred compensation plan (other than the accrual of earnings) at any time during the twenty-four (24) month period
ending on the date such employee is selected for participation in this Plan, and         

(c)  
  is selected for participation in this Plan by the Executive Vice President, Human Capital (or, for a Section 16 Officer, by the Board of Directors),     
  the Executive Vice President, Human Capital (or, for a Section 16 Officer, the Board of Directors) may designate that such employee shall be allowed to enter the
Plan as a Participant as of a fixed prospective date that is other than the first day of a Plan Year so long as that prospective date is within thirty (30) days of selection. Such employee shall be subject to the same enrollment requirements as
any other selected employee who first becomes eligible to participate in this Plan after the first day of a Plan Year as provided in Section 2.2.      2.5.  Termination of Participation . If an employee selected for participation in this Plan for one Plan Year is not selected for a subsequent Plan Year, no further deferrals shall be made by or for such employee in that subsequent
Plan Year. If an employee selected for participation in this Plan ceases to be a member of a select group of management or highly compensated employees (as that expression is used in ERISA), such employee s deferral elections shall be cancelled
as of the first day of the Plan Year beginning after such employee ceases to be a select group of management or highly compensated employees. In the event that a Participant is no longer eligible to defer compensation under this Plan, the
Participant s Account shall continue to be governed by the terms of this Plan Statement until such time as the Participant s Account is paid in accordance with the terms of the Plan.       4. INCENTIVE DEFERRAL ELECTIONS AND COMPLIANCE WITH CODE SECTION 409A. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2008, Section 4.1.1 of
the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:       4.1.1.  Amount of Deferrals . A Participant may elect to defer
between (and including) 1% and 100% of such Participant s Incentive Award. To be effective for an Incentive Award paid during a Plan Year, the deferral election must be received by the Executive Vice President, Human Capital or his or her
designee prior to the first day of the Plan Year in which the Incentive Award is earned. Such election shall be irrevocable for the Plan Year with respect to which it is made once it has been accepted by the Executive Vice President, Human Capital.
If a Participant first becomes eligible to participate in the Plan after the first day of such Plan Year, the Executive Vice President, Human Capital shall pro rate the Participant s deferral election by multiply the Participant s
Incentive Award by the number of days left in the performance period (i.e., Plan Year) as of the date the Participant s deferral election is received by Executive Vice President, Human Capital or his or her designee, over the total number of
days in the performance period. An election made by a Participant for a Plan Year shall remain in effect for subsequent Plan Years unless, prior to such Plan Year, the election is changed or terminated by the Participant or the Participant is not
selected for participation for that subsequent Plan Year.         
   -3-   

If a Participant receives an in-service distribution for an unforeseeable emergency (pursuant to
Section 9.8.2(b)), the Participant s deferral election in effect at the time of such distribution shall be cancelled as soon as administratively practicable following the date such distribution is made. The Participant may not again elect
to defer compensation under this Plan until the enrollment period for the Plan Year that begins at least six (6) months after such distribution. If a Participant receives a hardship withdrawal (as defined in section 401(k)-1(d)(3) of the
Code) from the UnitedHealth Group 401(k) Savings Plan or any other 401(k) plan maintained by the Employers or an Affiliate, the Participant s deferral election in effect at the time of such withdrawal shall be cancelled as soon as
administratively practicable following the date such withdrawal is made. The Participant may not again elect to defer compensation under this Plan until the enrollment period for the Plan Year that begins at least six (6) months after such
withdrawal.       5. SALARY DEFERRAL ELECTIONS AND COMPLIANCE WITH CODE SECTION 409A. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1,
2009, Section 4.2.1 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:       4.2.1.  Amount of Deferrals . A
Participant may elect to defer between (and including) 1% and 80% of such Participant s base salary for a Plan Year. For this purpose, base salary shall include any non-stock periodic incentive pay but shall not include any Incentive Awards. To
be effective for a Plan Year, the deferral election must be received by the Executive Vice President, Human Capital or his or her designee prior to the first day of the Plan Year (or such earlier deadline designated by the Executive Vice President,
Human Capital). Such election shall be irrevocable for the Plan Year with respect to which it is made once it has been accepted by the Executive Vice President, Human Capital. If a Participant first becomes eligible to participate in the Plan after
the first day of such Plan Year, the Participant s deferral election shall apply with respect to base salary paid for services to be performed after the deferral election is received by the Executive Vice President, Human Capital or his or her
designee.      All Participants who wish to defer a portion of their base salary for the 2009 Plan Year will be required to complete a new
deferral election during the open enrollment period for the 2009 Plan Year. A deferral election made by a Participant to defer a portion of the Participant s base salary for the 2009 Plan Year shall remain in effect for subsequent Plan Years
unless, prior to such Plan Year, the election is changed or terminated by the Participant or the Participant is not selected for participation for that subsequent Plan Year. To be effective for the 2009 Plan Year, the deferral election must be
received by the Executive Vice President, Human Capital or his or her designee prior to January 1, 2009 (or such earlier deadline designated by the Executive Vice President, Human Capital). Such election shall be irrevocable for the 2009 Plan
Year once it has been accepted by the Executive Vice President, Human Capital.      If a Participant receives an in-service distribution for an
unforeseeable emergency (pursuant to Section 9.8.2(b)), the Participant s deferral election in effect at the time of such distribution shall be cancelled as soon as administratively practicable following the date of such distribution is
made. The Participant may not again elect to defer base salary under this Plan until the enrollment period for the Plan Year that begins at least six (6) months after such distribution. If a Participant receives a hardship withdrawal (as
defined in section 401(k)-1(d)(3) of the Code) from the UnitedHealth Group 401(k) Savings Plan or any other 401(k) plan maintained by the Employers or an Affiliate, the Participant s deferral election in effect at the time of such
withdrawal shall be cancelled as soon as administratively practicable following the date such withdrawal is made. The Participant may not again elect to defer base salary under this Plan until the enrollment period for the Plan Year that begins at
least six (6) months after such withdrawal.       6. PERFORMANCE AWARD DEFERRAL ELECTIONS AND COMPLIANCE WITH CODE SECTION 409A. Effective for Plan
Years beginning on or after January 1, 2008, Section 4.3.1 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follow:          
   -4-   

4.3.1.  Amount of Deferrals . A Participant may elect to defer between (and including) 1% and 100%
of such Participant s Performance Award. To the extent permitted under section 409A of the Code and related Regulations and guidance, the deferral election must be received by the Executive Vice President, Human Capital or his or her
designee prior to the first day of the last Plan Year in the performance period (or any later deadline designated by the Executive Vice President which is at least six (6) months before the end of the performance period). Such election shall be
irrevocable for the applicable performance period with respect to which it is made once it has been accepted by the Executive Vice President, Human Capital. An election made by a Participant for a Plan Year shall remain in effect for subsequent Plan
Years unless, prior to such Plan Year, the election is changed or terminated by the Participant or the Participant is not selected for participation for that subsequent Plan Year.      If a Participant receives an in-service distribution for an unforeseeable emergency (pursuant to Section 9.8.2(b)), the Participant s deferral
election in effect at the time of such distribution shall be cancelled as soon as administratively practicable following the date such distribution is made. The Participant may not again elect to defer all or a portion of a Performance Award under
this Plan until the enrollment period for the Plan Year that begins at least six (6) months after such distribution. If a Participant receives a hardship withdrawal (as defined in section 401(k)-1(d)(3) of the Code) from the UnitedHealth
Group 401(k) Savings Plan or any other 401(k) plan maintained by the Employers or an Affiliate, the Participant s deferral election in effect at the time of such withdrawal shall be cancelled as soon as administratively practicable following
the date such withdrawal is made. The Participant may not again elect to defer all or a portion of a Performance Award under this Plan until the enrollment period for the Plan Year that begins at least six (6) months after such withdrawal.
      7. CLARIFICATION REGARDING TIME OF PAYMENT. Effective for all distributions payable on or after January 1, 2008, Section 9.2 of the Plan
Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:       9.2.  Form of Distribution . Distribution of the Participant s Account shall be made
in whichever of the following forms as the Participant shall have designated at the time of his or her enrollment (as described in Section 9.3):       

(a)  
   Lump Sum . In the form of a single lump sum. The amount of such distribution shall be determined as soon as administratively feasible as of a Valuation Date following the Plan
Year in which the Participant experienced a Separation from Service or Disability and shall be actually paid to the Participant as soon as practicable after such determination (but not later than the last day of the February following such Plan
Year). If, however, the Participant is a Specified Employee on the date of the Participant s Separation from Service, distribution shall be delayed until the first business day of the month following the month in which occurs the sixth
(6th) month anniversary of the date of the Participant s Separation from Service (or upon the death of the employee, if earlier).         

(b)  
   Installments . In the form of a series of five (5) or ten (10) annual installments. If a Participant elects to receive payments in the form of installments, then
pursuant to section 409A of the Code and the regulations issued thereunder (and for purposes of the re-election provisions in Section 9.4.3), the series of installment payments shall be treated as the entitlement to a single payment (rather
than a series of separate payments).         

(i)  
     General Rule . The amount of the first installment will be determined as soon as administratively feasible as of a Valuation Date following the Plan Year in
which Participant experienced a Separation from Service or Disability and shall be actually paid to the Participant as soon as practicable after such determination (but not later than the last day of the February following such Plan Year).  
          
   -5-   

The amount of future installments will be determined as soon as administratively feasible following the end of each later Plan Year. The amount of each
installment shall be determined by dividing the Account balance as of the Valuation Date as of which the installment is being paid, by the number of remaining installment payments to be made (including the payment being determined). Such
installments shall be actually paid as soon as practicable after each such determination (but not later than the last day of the February following such Plan Year).          

(ii)  
   Exception for Small Amounts . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 9, if:         

(A)  
  at the time of any distribution of installments from this Plan or any other account balance deferred compensation plan of Employers or an Affiliate, the combined value of
(1) the Participant s Account in this Plan as of the Valuation Date as of which an installment is to be determined and (2) the Participant s post-2004 accounts in all other account balance deferred compensation plans of the
Employers or an Affiliate is determined to be equal to or less than the applicable dollar amount under section 402(g)(1)(B) of the Code for such calendar year ($15,500 in 2008 and $16,500 in 2009), and         

(B)  
  all such other account balance deferred compensation plans in which the Participant has an account provide for a mandatory small amount cashout of elective deferrals on the same
basis as this Section 9.2(b)(ii),         

then, the portion of the Participant s Account in this Plan which is payable in the form of installments shall be distributed to the Participant in a lump sum as soon as
practicable after such Valuation Date (but not later than the last day of the February following such Plan Year).         

(iii)  
   Six-Month Delay . If, however, the Participant is a Specified Employee on the date of the Participant s Separation from Service, distribution shall be delayed until the
first business day of the month following the month in which occurs the sixth (6th) month anniversary of the date of the Participant s Separation from Service (or upon the death of the employee, if earlier).         

(c)  
   Five (5) Year Delay, Then Lump Sum . In the form of a single lump sum following the fifth (5th) anniversary of the Participant s Separation from Service or
Disability. The amount of such distribution shall be determined as soon as administratively feasible as of a Valuation Date following the Plan Year in which occurs the fifth (5th) anniversary of the Participant s Termination of Employment
or Disability. Actual distribution shall be made as soon as administratively practicable after such determination (but not later than the last day of the February following the Plan Year in which occurs such fifth (5th) anniversary).

(d)  
   Ten (10) Year Delay, Then Lump Sum . In the form of a single lump sum following the tenth (10th) anniversary of the Participant s Separation from Service or
Disability. The amount of such distribution shall be determined as soon as administratively feasible as of a Valuation Date following the Plan Year in which occurs the tenth (10th) anniversary of the Participant s Termination of Employment
or Disability. Actual distribution shall be made as soon as administratively practicable after such determination (but not later than the last day of the February following the Plan Year in which occurs such tenth (10th) anniversary).
          
   -6-   

8. CLARIFICATION REGARDING CHANGE IN FORM OF PAYMENT. Effective for all Plan Year beginning on or after
January 1, 2008, Section 9.3.4(d) the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:        

(d)  
  has the effect of delaying payment of the lump sum (or, in the case of installments which are treated as the entitlement to a single payment (and not a series of separate payments),
the initial commencement date) under the prior election for at least five (5) years, and         9. DISTRIBUTION TO BENEFICIARY. Effective
for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2008, Section 9.4.3 of the Plan Statement shall be deleted in its entirety and Section 9.4.4 of the Plan Statement shall be renumbered as Section 9.4.3.        II. Design Changes        10. DEFINITION OF PLAN AND
ELIMINATION OF 401(k) RESTORATION OPTION DEFERRALS. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2009, the definition of  Plan  in Section 1.2.17 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:
      1.2.17.  Plan    the two nonqualified, unfunded, deferred compensation programs maintained by the Employers for the benefit
of Participants eligible to participate therein, as set forth in this Plan Statement: (1) the 401(k) Restoration Option Plan (which is attributable to credits to Accounts described in Section 3 for Plan Years ending on or before
December 31, 2008), and (2) the Incentive Deferral and Salary Deferral Option Plan (which is attributable to credits to Accounts described in Section 4). (As used herein,  Plan  does not refer to the document pursuant to
which the Plan is maintained. That document is referred to herein as the  Plan Statement .) The Plan shall be referred to as the  UnitedHealth Group Executive Savings Plan.  The Plan consists of two distinct and mutually
exclusive parts applicable to different benefits depending on when the benefit was earned under this Plan. These two (2) parts are:       

(b)  
   Legacy Executive Savings Plan . The part of the Plan that consists of all amounts deferred prior to January 1, 2004.         11. ELIMINATION OF 401(k) RESTORATION OPTION. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2009, Section 3 of the Plan Statement shall be
amended to read in full as follows:        SECTION 3        401 (k) RESTORATION OPTION PLAN       The 401(k) Restoration Option Plan was eliminated effective for Plan Years
beginning on or after January 1, 2009. Any amounts deferred under the 401(k) Restoration Option Plan for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2004 and prior to January 1, 2009, and any matching credits on such deferrals shall
continue to held in Participants  Accounts under this Plan and shall be governed by the terms of this Plan Statement until such time as the Accounts are paid in accordance with the terms of the Plan.         
   -7-   

12. MATCHING CREDITS ON SALARY DEFERRALS. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2009,
Section 4.2.3 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:       4.2.3.  Matching Credits . Effective for
Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2009, the Executive Vice President, Human Capital shall cause to be credited to the Account of each Participant an additional matching amount equal to 50% of the amount credited to such
Participant s Account under Section 4.2.2 above. For this purpose, however, deferrals at a rate exceeding 6% of the Participant s base salary shall be disregarded. Such matching amounts shall be credited as soon as administratively
feasible on or after the day the related deferral of base salary is credited, and shall be fully vested.       13. MEASURING INVESTMENTS. Effective for Plan
Years beginning on or after January 1, 2009, the last paragraph of Section 5.1 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:       The Accounts and such Measuring Investments are specified solely as a device for computing the amount of benefits to be paid by the Employers under the Plan, and the Employers are not required to purchase such investments. The Measuring
Investments shall be listed in the enrollment guide for the Plan.   Participants may change the Measuring Investment designations for their Accounts as of any business date of the Plan Year.       14. ELIMINATION OF 401(K) RESTORATION DEFERRAL OPTION. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2009, Section 6.1 of the Plan Statement
shall be amended to read in full as follows:       6.1.  Operational Rules for Deferrals . A Participant s election to defer compensation under
Section 4 shall be  evergreen  and shall remain in effect for subsequent Plan Years unless, prior to such Plan Year, the election is changed or terminated or the Participant is not selected for participation for that subsequent Plan
Year. If a Participant s pay after deferrals is not sufficient to cover pre-tax and after-tax benefit payroll deductions, and tax or other payroll withholding requirements, the Participant s deferrals shall be reduced to the extent
necessary to meet such requirements.       15. SCHEDULE I. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2009, Schedule I to the
Plan Statement shall be amended by substituting therefore the Schedule I attached to this amendment.        16. SCHEDULE II. Effective for Plan Years
beginning on or after January 1, 2009, Schedule II to the Plan Statement shall be deleted in its entirety without replacement.        17. SAVINGS
CLAUSE. Save and except as hereinabove expressly amended, the Plan Statement shall continue in full force and effect.          
   -8-   

SCHEDULE I        EMPLOYERS PARTICIPATING        IN THE        UNITEDHEALTH GROUP EXECUTIVE SAVINGS PLAN        

1.  
  United HealthCare Services, Inc.         

2.  
  U.S. Behavioral Health Plan, California         

3.  
  UHC International Services, Inc.         

4.  
  UnitedHealthcare International, Inc.         

5.  
  UnitedHealthcare Alliance LLC (formerly UnitedHealthcare of Minnesota, Inc.)         

6.  
  Evercare Collaborative Solutions, Inc.         

7.  
  Health Plan of Nevada, Inc.         

8.  
  Sierra Health and Life Insurance Company, Inc.         

9.  
  Southwest Medical Associates, Inc.     

</EX-10.17>

<EX-10.18>
 11
 dex1018.htm
 UNITEDHEALTH GROUP DIRECTORS' COMPENSATION DEFERRAL PLAN

UnitedHealth Group Directors' Compensation Deferral Plan 

Exhibit 10.18        UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        DIRECTORS  COMPENSATION DEFERRAL PLAN        (2009 STATEMENT)    

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        DIRECTORS  COMPENSATION DEFERRAL        PLAN (2009 STATEMENT)        TABLE OF CONTENTS        
       
   -i-   

-ii-   

-iii-   

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        DIRECTORS  COMPENSATION DEFERRAL PLAN        (2009 STATEMENT)        SECTION 1        INTRODUCTION AND
DEFINITIONS       1.1.  Establishment of Plan . Effective January 1, 2002, UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INCORPORATED, a Minnesota corporation (hereinafter
sometimes referred to as  UnitedHealth Group ), as plan sponsor, established a nonqualified, unfunded, deferred compensation plan for the benefit of certain members of its Board of Directors. This document reflects changes to the plan
document effected by a First Amendment adopted on March 8, 2004, a Second Amendment adopted on October 31, 2006 and a Third Amendment adopted on October 29, 2007. This plan document also reflects certain additional amendments for
purposes of establishing documentary compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and its accompanying regulations ( Section 409A of the Code ), and to permit ongoing operational compliance with the requirements
of Section 409A. For the avoidance of doubt, Pre-2004 Accounts (as defined below) are intended as a separate plan from Post-2003 Accounts (as defined below) within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code and Treasury Regulations
1.409A-1(c).      1.2.  Definitions . When the following terms are used herein with initial capital letters, they shall have the following meanings:
     1.2.1.  Account    the separate bookkeeping account established for each Participant which represents the separate unfunded and
unsecured general obligation of UnitedHealth Group established with respect to each person who is a Participant in this Plan in accordance with Section 2 and which are credited to the dollar amounts specified in Sections 3 and 4 and from which
are subtracted payments made pursuant to Section 8. The following accounts will be maintained under this Plan for Participants:       

(a)  
  Pre-2004 Account   the account maintained for each Participant to which are credited the dollar amounts specified in Sections 3 and 4 for Plan Years ending on or before
December 31, 2003.         

(b)  
  Post-2003 Account   the account maintained for each Participant to which are credited the dollar amounts specified in Sections 3 and 4 for Plan Years beginning after
December 31, 2003. To the extent necessary to accommodate and effect the distribution elections made by Participants pursuant to Section 8.3 and Section 8.9.2 for Plan Years beginning after December 31, 2003, separate bookkeeping
sub-accounts shall be established with respect to each of the several annual forms of distribution elections and pre-selected in-service distribution elections made by Participants.        1.2.2.  Annual Valuation Date    each December 31.      1.2.3.  Beneficiary    a person designated by a Participant (or automatically by operation of the Plan Statement) to receive all or a part of the Participant s Account in the event of the
Participant s death prior to full distribution thereof. A person so designated shall not be considered a Beneficiary until the death of the Participant.      1.2.4.  Board Compensation    Board retainer fees, Board meeting fees and Board committee fees but not stock options or other stock-based compensation. The Committee may designate prospectively that other
pay is included in Board Compensation.         
   SI-1   

1.2.5.  Board of Directors or Board    the Board of Directors of UnitedHealth Group or its
successor, and any properly authorized committee of the Board of Directors.      1.2.6.  Code    the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended.      1.2.7.  Committee    the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (also known as the
 Compensation Committee ).      1.2.8.  Effective Date    January 1, 2002.      1.2.9.  Participant    a member of the Board of Directors of UnitedHealth Group who has elected to defer compensation under Section 3. A
director who has become a Participant shall continue to be a Participant in this Plan until the date of the Participant s death or, if earlier, the date when the Participant has received a distribution of the Participant s entire Account.
     1.2.10.  Plan    the nonqualified, unfunded, deferred compensation program maintained by UnitedHealth Group for the benefit of
Participants eligible to participate therein, as set forth in this Plan Statement. (As used herein,  Plan  does not refer to the document pursuant to which the Plan is maintained. That document is referred to herein as the  Plan
Statement .) The Plan shall be referred to as the  UnitedHealth Group Directors  Compensation Deferral Plan.       1.2.11.
 Plan Statement    this document entitled  UnitedHealth Group Directors  Compensation Deferral Plan (2009 Statement)  as adopted by the Board of Directors and generally effective December 31, 2008, as the same may be
amended from time to time thereafter.      1.2.12.  Plan Year    the twelve (12) consecutive month period ending on any Annual
Valuation Date.      1.2.13.  Termination of Directorship    a complete severance of a Participant s membership on the Board of
Directors of UnitedHealth Group for any reason other than the Participant s death. Whether a Termination of Directorship has occurred is determined under section 409A of the Code and section 1.409A-1(h) of the regulations ( i.e. , whether
the expiration of the director s term or his or her resignation or removal from the Board constitutes a good-faith and complete termination of the Director s relationship with UnitedHealth Group).      1.2.14.  UnitedHealth Group or UHG    UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INCORPORATED, a Minnesota corporation, or any successor thereto.      1.2.15.  Valuation Date    any day that the U.S. securities markets are open and conducting business.       SECTION 2        ELIGIBILITY TO
PARTICIPATE       Each member of the Board of Directors of UnitedHealth Group as of the initial adoption of this Plan who is not an employee of UnitedHealth
Group or any affiliate shall be eligible to become a Participant in this Plan as of January 1, 2002. Each person who later becomes a member of the Board and is not then an employee of UnitedHealth Group or any affiliate shall be eligible to
become a Participant in this Plan as of such member s election to the Board. Each person (a) who is both a member of the Board and an employee of UnitedHealth Group or any affiliate, and (b) who later ceases to be so employed but
continues as a member of the Board, shall be eligible to become a Participant in this Plan as of such cessation of employment.         
   2   

SECTION 3        COMPENSATION DEFERRAL OPTION       3.1.  Option to Defer Board Compensation .      3.1.1.  Amount of Deferrals . Through a voice response system (or other written or electronic means) approved by the Committee, a Participant may
elect to defer between (and including) 1% and 100% of such Participant s Board Compensation for Board services for a Plan Year. The Committee may establish prospectively other percentage limits. To be effective for a Plan Year, the deferral
election must be received by the Committee or its designee prior to the first day of the Plan Year (or such earlier deadline designated by the Committee or its designee); provided, however, for a person who is first elected to the Board after the
beginning of the Plan Year and was not previously eligible to participate in a plan required to be aggregated with this Plan under Treasury Regulations 1.409A-1(c)(2)(i), the deferral election must be received by the Committee within 30 days after
the first day of such eligibility, and, if so received, the deferral election shall apply to Board Compensation earned after the date of the election. Such deferral election shall be irrevocable and shall remain in effect until changed or rescinded.
Prior to the beginning of any subsequent the Plan Year, a Participant may irrevocably elect through a voice response system (or other written or electronic means) approved by the Committee to change an earlier election by providing a new deferral
election to the Committee or its designee. The new deferral election shall become effective on the first day of the subsequent Plan Year.      3.1.2.  Crediting to Accounts . The Committee shall cause to be credited to the Account of each Participant the amount, if any, of such Participant s voluntary deferrals of Board Compensation under Section 3.1.1. Such amount
shall be credited as soon as administratively feasible following the time such Board Compensation would otherwise have been paid to the Participant.      3.1.3.  No Matching Credits . No matching amounts shall be credited for deferrals of Board Compensation under Section 3.1.1.      3.2.  Discretionary Supplements From UnitedHealth Group . Upon written notice to one or more Participants and to the Committee, the Board of Directors may (but is not required to) determine that additional
amounts shall be credited to the Accounts of such Participants. Such notice shall also specify the date of such crediting. Notwithstanding Section 6, such notice may also establish vesting rules for such amounts, in which case separate Accounts
shall be established for such amounts for such Participants.      3.3.  Credits Limited to Outside Directors . No Participant who becomes an employee of
UnitedHealth Group or any affiliate shall be eligible to receive credits under this Section 3 while such an employee.       SECTION 4
       CREDITS FROM MEASURING INVESTMENTS       4.1.  Designation of Measuring Investments . Through a voice response system (or other written or electronic means) approved by the Committee, each Participant shall designate the following  Measuring Investments,  which
shall be used to determine the value of such Participant s Account (until changed as provided herein):       

(a)  
  One or more Measuring Investments for the current Account balance, and         

(b)  
  One or more Measuring Investments for amounts that are credited to the Account in the future.        The Accounts and such Measuring Investments are specified solely as a device for computing the amount of benefits to be paid by UnitedHealth Group under the Plan, and UnitedHealth Group is not required to purchase
such investments. The Measuring Investments may be revised and amended by the Committee, in its discretion, from time to time.         
   3   

4.2.  UnitedHealth Group Stock as Measuring Investment . The Board of Directors may (but shall not be required to)
determine that the Measuring Investments available for election by Participants will include deemed (but not actual) investment in the common stock of UnitedHealth Group, valued at the closing price of the common stock of UnitedHealth Group as
reported on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape on the applicable Valuation Date.      4.3.  Optional Rules for Measuring Investments . The
Committee may adopt rules specifying the Measuring Investments, the circumstances under which a particular Measuring Investment may be elected, or shall be automatically utilized, the minimum or maximum amount or percentage of an Account which may
be allocated to a Measuring Investment, the procedures for making or changing Measuring Investment elections, the extent (if any) to which Beneficiaries of deceased Participants may make Measuring Investment elections and the effect of a
Participant s or Beneficiary s failure to make an effective Measuring Investment election with respect to all or any portion of an Account.      4.4.
 Measuring Investments and Rules to be Identical to Executive Savings Plan . Unless the Committee specifies otherwise, the Measuring Investments and operational rules for this Plan shall be identical to those under the UnitedHealth Group
Executive Savings Plan and any change to the Measuring Investments or operational rules under the Executive Savings Plan shall automatically apply to this Plan.       SECTION 5        OPERATIONAL RULES       5.1.  Operational Rules for Deferrals . A Participant s election to defer Board Compensation under Section 3 shall be  evergreen  and shall remain in effect until changed by the Participant
for a future Plan Year as specified in Section 3.1.1.      5.2.  Establishment of Accounts . There shall be established for each Participant an
unfunded, bookkeeping Account which shall be adjusted each Valuation Date.      5.3.  Accounting Rules . The Committee may adopt (and revise) accounting
rules for the Accounts.       SECTION 6        VESTING OF ACCOUNTS       The Account of each Participant shall be fully (100%) vested and nonforfeitable at all
times (except for any special vesting rules that apply to discretionary supplements of UnitedHealth Group under Section 3.2 and any early distribution penalties that may apply under Section 8).       SECTION 7        SPENDTHRIFT PROVISION
      Participants and Beneficiaries shall have no power to transfer any interest in an Account nor shall any Participant or Beneficiary have any power to
anticipate, alienate, dispose of, pledge or encumber the same while it is in the possession or control of UnitedHealth Group, nor shall the Committee recognize any assignment thereof, either in whole or in part, nor shall the Account be subject to
attachment, garnishment, execution following judgment or other legal process (including without limitation any domestic relations order, whether or not a  qualified domestic relations order  under section 414(p) of the Code) before the
Account is distributed to the Participant or Beneficiary.         
   4   

The power to designate Beneficiaries to receive the Account of a Participant in the event of such Participant s
death shall not permit or be construed to permit such power or right to be exercised by the Participant so as thereby to anticipate, pledge, mortgage or encumber such Participant s Account or any part thereof. Any attempt by a Participant to so
exercise said power in violation of this provision shall be of no force and effect and shall be disregarded by the Committee.       SECTION 8
       DISTRIBUTIONS       8.1.  Time of
Distribution to Participant .      8.1.1.  General Rule . A Participant s Account shall be distributable upon the Termination of
Directorship of the Participant.      8.1.2.  No Application for Distribution Required . A Participant s Account shall be distributed
automatically following the Participant s Termination of Directorship. A Participant shall not be required to apply for distribution.      8.1.3.  Distribution to Specified Employees . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan Statement, in the event that a Participant in the Plan is determined to be a  specified employee  (within the meaning of
Section 409A of the Code and determined pursuant to procedures adopted by UnitedHealth Group), any distribution to the Participant on account of the Participant s Termination of Directorship shall be delayed until the first day of the
first month that begins six (6) months following the Termination of Directorship (or if earlier, the date of the Participant s death) to comply with the requirements of section 409A of the Code.      8.2.  Form of Distribution . As determined under the rules of Section 8.4, distribution of the Participant s Post-2003 Account shall be made in one or
more of the following forms:       

(a)  
   Immediate Lump Sum . Distribution of the Participant s Post-2003 Account shall be made in a single lump sum. The amount of such distribution shall be determined as soon
as administratively feasible as of a Valuation Date following the Plan Year in which occurs the Participant s Termination of Directorship and shall be actually paid to the Participant as soon as practicable after such determination (but not
later than the last day of the February following the Plan Year in which occurs the Participant s Termination of Directorship).         

(b)  
   Installments . Distribution of the Participant s Post-2003 Account shall be made in a series of five (5) or ten (10) annual installments. If a Participant
elects to receive payment in the form of installments, then pursuant to section 409A of the Code and regulations issued thereunder (and for purposes of the re-election provisions in Section 8.4.4), the series of installment payments shall be
treated as the entitlement to a single payment (rather than a series of separate payments).         

(i)  
   In General . The amount of the first installment will be determined as soon as administratively feasible following the Plan Year in which occurs the Participant s
Termination of Directorship and the amount of future installments will be determined as soon as administratively feasible following the end of each following Plan Year. The amount of each installment shall be determined by dividing the
Participant s Post-2003 Account balance as of the Valuation Date as of which the installment is being paid, by the number of remaining installment payments to be made (including the payment being determined). Such installments shall be actually
paid as soon as practicable after each such determination (but not later than the last day of February of each year when a determination occurs).           
   5   

(ii)  
   Exception for Small Amounts . Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 8.2(b), if the value of the Participant s Post-2003 Account as of the
Valuation Date as of which an installment payment is to be determined does not exceed Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000), the Participant s entire Post-2003 Account shall be paid in the form of a lump sum as soon as administratively practicable
after such Valuation Date (but not later than the last day of February of the year when such determination occurs). For this purpose, the value of the Post-2003 Account shall be determined after reduction for any lump sum or other payment that is
also payable to such Participant as of such Valuation Date.         

(c)  
   Five (5) Year Delay, then Lump Sum . Distribution of the Participant s Post-2003 Account shall be made in a single lump sum payment following the fifth
(5th) anniversary of the Participant s Termination of Directorship. The amount of such distribution shall be determined as soon as administratively feasible as of a Valuation Date in the calendar year following the calendar year in which
occurs the fifth (5th) anniversary of the Participant s Termination of Directorship. Actual distribution shall be made in the calendar year of determination as soon as administratively practicable after such determination. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, if the value of the Participant s Post-2003 Account does not exceed Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000) as of the Annual Valuation Date in the Plan Year in which the Participant experienced a Termination of Directorship or any
following Plan Year, the Participant s Post-2003 Account shall be paid in a lump sum as soon as practicable after such determination (but not later than the last day of February of the year following the Annual Valuation Date); provided that
payment shall only be made if the requirements of Treasury Regulations Section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(v) are satisfied.         

(d)  
   Ten (10) Year Delay, then Lump Sum . Distribution of the Participant s Post-2003 Account shall be made in a single lump sum payment following the tenth
(10th) anniversary of the Participant s Termination of Directorship. The amount of such distribution shall be determined as soon as administratively feasible as of a Valuation Date in the calendar year following the calendar year in which
occurs the tenth (10th) anniversary of the Participant s Termination of Directorship. Actual distribution shall be made in the calendar year of determination as soon as administratively practicable after such determination. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, if the value of the Participant s Post-2003 Account does not exceed Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000) as of the Annual Valuation Date in the Plan Year in which the Participant experienced a Termination of Directorship or any
following Plan Year, the Participant s Post-2003 Account shall be paid in a lump sum as soon as practicable after such determination (but not later than the last day of February of the year following the Annual Valuation Date); provided that
payment shall only be made if the requirements of Treasury Regulations Section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(v) are satisfied.        8.3.  Form Of
Distribution For Pre-2004 Account.  As determined under the rules of Section 8.4, distribution of the Participant s Pre-2004 Account shall be made in one of the following forms:       

(a)  
   Immediate Lump Sum . Distribution of the Participant s Pre-2004 Account shall be made in a single lump sum. The amount of such distribution shall be determined as soon as
administratively feasible as of a Valuation Date following the Plan Year in which occurs the Participant s Termination of Directorship and shall be actually paid to the Participant as soon as practicable after such determination (but not later
than the last day of the February following such Plan Year).           
   6   

(b)  
   Installments.  Distribution of the Participant s Pre-2004 Account shall be made in a series of five (5) or ten (10) annual installments.

(i)  
   General Rule . The amount of the first installment will be determined as soon as administratively feasible following the Plan Year in which occurs the Participant s
Termination of Directorship and the amount of future installments will be determined as soon as administratively feasible following the end of each following Plan Year. The amount of each installment shall be determined by dividing the
Participant s Pre-2004 Account balance as of the Valuation Date as of which the installment is being paid, by the number of remaining installment payments to be made (including the payment being determined). Such installments shall be actually
paid as soon as practicable after each such determination (but not later than the last day of the February following such Plan Year).         

(ii)  
   Accelerated Payment . A Participant who has the installment option may, after Termination of Directorship, elect through a voice response system (or other written or
electronic means) approved by the Committee to receive a cash lump sum payment of the total remaining balance of the Participant s Pre-2004 Account (but not part thereof) for any reason; provided, however, that the Pre-2004 Account balance will
be reduced by a penalty of ten percent (10%), and the Participant will receive ninety percent (90%) of the Pre-2004 Account balance. The penalty of ten percent (10%) of the Pre-2004 Account balance will be forfeited to UnitedHealth Group
to be used as the Committee determines in its discretion. The amount of such distribution shall be determined as soon as administratively feasible following the receipt of the request by the Committee and shall be actually paid to the Participant as
soon as practicable after such determination.         

(iii)  
   Exception for Small Amounts . Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 8.3(b), if the value of the Participant s Pre-2004 Account as of the Valuation
Date as of which an installment payment is to be determined does not exceed Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000), the Participant s entire Pre-2004 Account shall be paid in the form of a lump sum as soon as administratively practicable after such
Valuation Date.         

(c)  
   Delayed Lump Sum . Distribution of the Participant s Pre-2004 Account shall be made in a single lump sum following the tenth (10) anniversary of the
Participant s Termination of Directorship, subject to the following rules:         

(i)   
     General Rule . The amount of such distribution shall be determined as soon as administratively feasible as of a
Valuation Date following the Plan Year in which occurs the tenth (10   th   ) anniversary of the Participant s Termination of Directorship.
Actual distribution shall be made as soon as practicable after such determination (but not later than the last day of February following such Plan Year). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the value of the Participant s Pre-2004 Account does not
exceed Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000) as of the Annual Valuation Date in any year following the Plan Year in which the Participant experienced a Termination of Directorship or any following Plan Year, the Participant s Pre-2004 Account shall be
paid in a lump sum as soon as practicable after such determination (but not later than the last day of the February following such Plan Year).            

   7   

(ii)   
     Immediate Accelerated Payment . A Participant who has experienced a Termination of Directorship and for whom the
delayed lump sum distribution option is in effect may elect through a voice response system (or other written or electronic means) approved by the Committee to receive a lump sum distribution of the Participant s Pre-2004 Account before the
tenth (10   th   ) anniversary of the Participant s Termination of Directorship; provided, however, that the Pre-2004 Account balance will be
reduced by a penalty of ten percent (10%), and the Participant will receive ninety percent (90%) of the Pre-2004 Account balance. The penalty of ten percent (10%) of the Pre-2004 Account balance will be forfeited to UnitedHealth Group to
be used as the Committee determines in its discretion. The amount of such distribution shall be determined as soon as administratively feasible following the receipt of the request by the Committee and shall be actually paid to the Participant as
soon as practicable after such determination.          

(iii)   
     Delayed Accelerated Payment . A Participant who has elected the delayed lump sum distribution option may, after
Termination of Directorship, make a one-time election through a voice response system (or other written or electronic means), approved by the Committee to receive either a lump sum distribution of the Participant s Pre-2004 Account before the
tenth (10   th   ) anniversary of the Participant s Termination of Directorship, or five (5) annual installments, subject to the following
rules:          

(A)   
    Any election to receive a lump sum payment before the tenth (10) anniversary of the Participant s Termination
of Directorship must be received by the Committee no later than the December 31 of the calendar year in which occurs the eighth (8   th   ) anniversary of the Participant s Termination of Directorship.          

(B)   
    Any election to receive five (5) annual installments must be received by the Committee no later than the
December 31 of the calendar year in which occurs the fourth (4   th   ) anniversary of the Participant s Termination of Directorship.

(C)   
    Any election to receive either a lump sum distribution of the Participant s Pre-2004 Account before the tenth (10
   th   ) anniversary of the Participant s Termination of Directorship or five (5) annual installments shall not be effective until twelve
(12) months after it is received by the Committee (if the Participant dies before the end of such 12-month period, such election shall not be effective).         8.4.  Election of Form of Distribution by Participant .        8.4.1.  Initial Enrollment .
Through a voice response system (or other written or electronic means) approved by the Committee, each Participant shall elect a form of distribution at the time of initial enrollment in the Plan, subject to the following:       

(a)   
     Forms of Distribution for Pre-2004 Accounts . If an individual was first eligible to become a Participant in the
Plan prior to December 31, 2003, such Participant elected at the time of initial enrollment in the Plan whether to receive distribution of the Participant s Pre-2004 Account (as described in Section 8.3) in either: (i) an
immediate lump sum, (ii) five (5) or ten (10) annual installments, or (iii) a delayed lump sum following the tenth (10   th   ) anniversary of the Participant s Termination of Directorship. An initial distribution election made by a Participant for any Plan Year beginning prior to  
          
   8   

December 31, 2003, shall remain in effect with respect to the Participant s Pre-2004 Account for all subsequent Plan Years unless the Participant
elects to change the form of distribution pursuant to the provisions of Section 8.4.4. An initial distribution election made by a Participant for any Plan Year beginning prior to December 31, 2003, shall remain in effect with respect to
the Participant s Post-2003 Account for all Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2004, unless, prior to a subsequent Plan Year, the Participant files a new distribution election for the Participant s Post-2003 Account with the
Committee in accordance with the provisions of Section 8.4.3.          

(b)   
     Forms of Distribution for Post-2003 Account . If an individual is first eligible to become a Participant in this
Plan after December 31, 2003, such Participant shall elect at the time of initial enrollment in the Plan whether distribution of the Participant s Post-2003 Account shall be made (as described in Section 8.2) in either: (i) an
immediate lump sum, (ii) five (5) or ten (10) annual installments, or (iii) a delayed lump sum following the fifth (5   th   ) or
tenth (10   th   ) anniversary of the Participant s Termination of Directorship. Such distribution election shall remain in effect with respect
to the Participant s Post-2003 Account for all subsequent Plan Years unless, prior to a subsequent Plan Year, the Participant files a new distribution election for the Participant s Post-2003 Account with the Committee in accordance with
the provisions of Section 8.4.3.         8.4.2.  Default Election of Form of Distribution . If a Participant fails to
elect a form of distribution, such Participant shall be deemed to have elected that distribution be made in an immediate lump sum as described in Section 8.2(a) or Section 8.3(a).      8.4.3.  Separate Distributions Elections Permitted Each Plan Year for Post-2003 Account . Any initial or default distribution election made by a
Participant with respect to the Participant s Post-2003 Account shall remain in effect with respect to the Participant s Post-2003 Account for all subsequent Plan Years unless, prior to a subsequent Plan Year, the Participant files a new
distribution election for the Participant s Post-2003 Account electing a different form of distribution for that portion of the Participant s Post-2003 Account attributable to deferrals for such subsequent Plan Year (and any investment
gains or losses on such deferrals). Through a voice response system (or other written or electronic means) approved by the Committee, a Participant may elect a different form of distribution for that portion of the Participant s Post-2003
Account attributable to deferrals for a subsequent Plan Year (and any investment gains or losses on such deferrals). To be effective for deferrals for a Plan Year, the new distribution election must be received by the Committee or its designee prior
to the first day of the Plan Year (or such earlier deadline designated by the Committee or its designee). If a Participant files a new distribution election with respect to the Participant s Post-2003 Account with the Committee pursuant to this
Section 8.4.3, such distribution election shall remain in effect for all subsequent Plan Years unless, prior to a subsequent Plan Year, the Participant files with the Committee another distribution election for the Participant s Post-2003
Account electing a different form of distribution for that portion of the Participant s Post-2003 Account attributable to deferrals for such subsequent Plan Year (and any investment gains or losses in such deferrals).      8.4.4.  Periodic Re-Election . Through a voice response system (or other written or electronic means) approved by the Committee, initial and default
distribution elections may be changed by the Participant from time to time, subject to the following:       

(a)  
   For Pre-2004 Accounts . Each subsequent distribution election filed with respect to the Participant s Pre-2004 Account shall supersede all prior distribution elections
filed with respect to the Participant s Pre-2004 Account and shall be effective as to the Participant s entire Pre-2004 Account as if the new distribution election had been made at the time of the Participant s initial enrollment

(b)  
     For Post-2003 Accounts . Each subsequent distribution election filed with respect to the Participant s Post-2003 Account shall supersede all prior
distribution elections filed with respect to such specified portion of the Participant s Post-2003 Account and shall be  
          
   9   

effective as to the specified portion of the Participant s Post-2003 Account. If, however, the subsequent distribution election does not have the effect
of delaying payment of the lump sum (or, in the case of installments, the installment commencement date ( i.e.,  the date the first installment in the stream of installment payments is scheduled to be paid) under the prior election for at least
five (5) years, such distribution election shall be disregarded as if it had never been filed (and the prior effective distribution election shall be given effect).          

(c)  
   In General . Notwithstanding the foregoing, any new distribution election shall be disregarded as if it had never been filed (and the prior effective distribution election
shall be given effect) unless the distribution election:         

(i)  
  is filed by a Participant who is still performing Board services,         

(ii)  
  is filed with the Committee at least twelve (12) months before the Participant s scheduled distribution date following the Participant s Termination of Directorship
or, if applicable, the Participant s specified payment date,         

(iii)  
  is filed at least twelve (12) months after the initial distribution election for the Participant s Pre-2004 Account (or, if one or more prior changes has been filed, at
least twelve (12) months after the latest of such changes was filed), or is filed at least twelve (12) months after the initial distribution election for the specified portion of the Participant s Post-2003 Account (or, if one or more
prior changes has been filed, at least twelve (12) months after the latest of such changes was filed), and         

(iv)  
  if the new distribution election is filed with respect to the Participant s Post-2003 Account, such election shall not take effect until at least twelve (12) months after
the date it is filed with the Committee.        No spouse, former spouse, Beneficiary or other person shall have any right to participate in the
Participant s decision to revise distribution elections. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee shall interpret all provisions of this Plan relating to the change of any distribution election with respect to the Participant s
Post-2003 Account in a manner that is consistent with section 409A of the Code and the regulations and other guidance issued thereunder. Accordingly, if the Committee determines that a requested revision to a distribution election is inconsistent
with section 409A of the Code or other applicable tax law, the request shall not be effective.      8.5.  Payment to Beneficiary Upon Death of
Participant .      8.5.1.  Payment to Beneficiary When Death Occurs Before Termination of Directorship . If a Participant dies before
Termination of Directorship, such Participant s Beneficiary will receive payment of the Participant s Account at the same time and in the same form the Participant would have received if the Participant had experienced a Termination of
Directorship on the date of death.      8.5.2.  Payment to Beneficiary When Death Occurs After Termination of Directorship . If a
Participant dies after a Termination of Directorship, the Participant s Beneficiary shall receive distribution of the Participant s Account at the same time and in the same form the Participant would have received if the Participant had
survived.      8.5.3.  Election of Measuring Investments by Beneficiaries . A Beneficiary of a deceased Participant shall generally have
the same rights to designate Measuring Investments for the Participant s Account that Participants have under Section 4. The Committee may adopt (and revise) rules to govern designations of Measuring Investments by Beneficiaries. Unless
changed by the Committee, the following rules shall apply:       

(a)  
  The Measuring Investments for the Account of a deceased Participant shall not be changed until the Beneficiary so determines.           
   10   

(b)  
  If a deceased Participant has more than one Beneficiary, the unanimous consent of all Beneficiaries shall be required to change Measuring Investments for such Participant s
Account.        8.6.  Designation of Beneficiaries .        8.6.1.  Right to Designate . Each Participant may designate, upon forms to be furnished by and filed with the Committee (or through other means approved by the Committee), one or more primary Beneficiaries or
alternative Beneficiaries to receive all or a specified part of such Participant s Account in the event of such Participant s death. The Participant may change or revoke any such designation from time to time without notice to or consent
from any Beneficiary. No such designation, change or revocation shall be effective unless executed by the Participant and received by the Committee during the Participant s lifetime.      8.6.2.  Failure of Designation . If a Participant:       

(a)  
  fails to designate a Beneficiary,         

(b)  
  designates a Beneficiary and thereafter revokes such designation without naming another Beneficiary, or         

(c)  
  designates one or more Beneficiaries and all such Beneficiaries so designated fail to survive the Participant,        such Participant s Account, or the part thereof as to which such Participant s designation fails, as the case may be, shall be payable to the first class of
the following classes of automatic Beneficiaries in which a member survives the Participant and (except in the case of surviving issue) in equal shares if there is more than one member in such class surviving the Participant:       

(i)  
  Participant s surviving spouse;         

(ii)  
  Participant s surviving issue per stirpes and not per capita;         

(iii)  
  Participant s surviving parents;         

(iv)  
  Participant s surviving brothers and sisters; and         

(v)  
  Representative of Participant s estate.        8.6.3.
 Disclaimers by Beneficiaries . A Beneficiary entitled to a distribution of all or a portion of a deceased Participant s Account may disclaim an interest therein subject to the following requirements. To be eligible to disclaim, a
Beneficiary must be a natural person, must not have received a distribution of all or any portion of the Account at the time such disclaimer is executed and delivered, and must have attained at least age twenty-one (21) years as of the date of
the Participant s death. Any disclaimer must be in writing and must be executed personally by the Beneficiary before a notary public. A disclaimer shall state that the Beneficiary s entire interest in the undistributed Account is
disclaimed or shall specify what portion thereof is disclaimed. To be effective, duplicate original executed copies of the disclaimer must be both executed and actually delivered to the Committee after the date of the Participant s death but
not later than nine (9) months after the date of the Participant s death. A disclaimer shall be irrevocable when delivered to the Committee. A disclaimer shall be considered to be delivered to the Committee only when actually received by
the Committee. The Committee shall be the sole judge of the content, interpretation and validity of a purported disclaimer. Upon the filing of a valid disclaimer, the Beneficiary shall be considered not to have survived the Participant as to the
interest disclaimed. A disclaimer by a Beneficiary shall not be considered to be a transfer of an interest in violation of any other provisions under this Plan. No other form of attempted disclaimer shall be recognized by the Committee.   
     
   11   

8.6.4.  Definitions . When used herein and, unless the Participant has otherwise specified in the
Participant s Beneficiary designation, when used in a Beneficiary designation,  issue  means all persons who are lineal descendants of the person whose issue are referred to, subject to the following:       

(a)  
  a legally adopted child and the adopted child s lineal descendants always shall be lineal descendants of each adoptive parent (and of each adoptive parent s lineal
ancestors);         

(b)  
  a legally adopted child and the adopted child s lineal descendants never shall be lineal descendants of any former parent whose parental rights were terminated by the adoption
(or of that former parent s lineal ancestors); except that if, after a child s parent has died, the child is legally adopted by a stepparent who is the spouse of the child s surviving parent, the child and the child s lineal
descendants shall remain lineal descendants of the deceased parent (and the deceased parent s lineal ancestors);         

(c)  
  if the person (or a lineal descendant of the person) whose issue are referred to is the parent of a child (or is treated as such under applicable law) but never received the child
into that parent s home and never openly held out the child as that parent s child (unless doing so was precluded solely by death), then neither the child nor the child s lineal descendants shall be issue of the person.
        Child  means an issue of the first generation;  per stirpes  means in equal shares among living children of the person
whose issue are referred to and the issue (taken collectively) of each deceased child of such person, with such issue taking by right of representation of such deceased child; and  survive  and  surviving  mean living after the
death of the Participant.      8.6.5.  Special Rules . Unless the Participant has otherwise specified in the Participant s
Beneficiary designation, the following rules shall apply:       

(a)  
  If there is not sufficient evidence that a Beneficiary was living at the time of the death of the Participant, it shall be deemed that the Beneficiary was not living at the time of
the death of the Participant.         

(b)  
  The automatic Beneficiaries specified in Section 8.5.2 and the Beneficiaries designated by the Participant shall become fixed at the time of the Participant s death so
that, if a Beneficiary survives the Participant but dies before the receipt of all payments due such Beneficiary hereunder, such remaining payments shall be payable to the representative of such Beneficiary s estate.     

(c)  
  If the Participant designates as a Beneficiary the person who is the Participant s spouse on the date of the designation, either by name or by relationship, or both, the
dissolution, annulment or other legal termination of the marriage between the Participant and such person shall automatically revoke such designation. (The foregoing shall not prevent the Participant from designating a former spouse as a Beneficiary
on a form executed by the Participant and received by the Committee after the date of the legal termination of the marriage between the Participant and such former spouse, and during the Participant s lifetime.)         

(d)  
  Any designation of a nonspouse Beneficiary by name that is accompanied by a description of relationship to the Participant shall be given effect without regard to whether the
relationship to the Participant exists either then or at the Participant s death.         

(e)  
  Any designation of a Beneficiary only by statement of relationship to the Participant shall be effective only to designate the person or persons standing in such relationship to the
Participant at the Participant s death.           
   12   

The Committee shall be the sole judge of the content, interpretation and validity of a purported Beneficiary designation.
     8.7.  Death Prior to Full Distribution . If, at the death of the Participant, any payment to the Participant was due or otherwise pending but not
actually paid, the amount of such payment shall be included in the Account which is payable to the Beneficiary (and shall not be paid to the Participant s estate, unless the Participant s estate is the Beneficiary as determined under
Section 8.6.2).      8.8.  Facility of Payment . In case of minority, incapacity or legal disability of a Participant or Beneficiary entitled to
receive any distribution under this Plan, payment shall be made, if the Committee shall be advised of the existence of such condition:       

(a)  
  to the court-appointed guardian or conservator of such Participant or Beneficiary, or         

(b)  
  if there is no court-appointed guardian or conservator, to the lawfully authorized representative of the Participant or Beneficiary (and the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall
determine whether a person is a lawfully authorized representative for this purpose), or         

(c)  
  to an institution entrusted with the care or maintenance of the incapacitated or disabled Participant or Beneficiary, provided such institution has satisfied the Committee, in its
sole discretion, that the payment will be used for the best interest and assist in the care of such Participant or Beneficiary, and provided further, that no prior claim for said payment has been made by a person described in (a) or
(b) above.        Any payment made in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this section shall constitute a complete discharge of any
liability or obligation of UnitedHealth Group therefor.      8.9.  In-Service Distributions .      8.9.1.  Pre-Selected In-Service Distributions From Pre-2004 Account .   Each Participant who initially enrolled in the Plan prior to
January 1, 2004, had a one-time opportunity, when initially enrolling in the Plan, to elect one (1) or more pre-selected in-service distribution dates for all or a portion of the Participant s Pre-2004 Account, subject to the
following rules:       

(a)  
  Such election shall be made through a voice response system (or other written or electronic means) approved by the Committee.         

(b)  
  No such distribution will be made from the Participant s Pre-2004 Account before the January 1 of the calendar year that follows the third full Plan Year after the
Participant first enrolled in the Plan.         

(c)  
  Only one such in-service distribution from the Participant s Pre-2004 Account will be made in any Plan Year.         

(d)  
  The minimum amount of such in-service distribution from the Participant s Pre-2004 Account is One Thousand Dollars ($1,000).         

(e)  
  Through a voice response system (or other written or electronic means) approved by the Committee, the Participant may request to postpone any pre-selected in-service distribution
date. A pre-selected in-service distribution date may be postponed only once. The Participant must file the extension request with the Committee at least twelve (12) months before the scheduled date of distribution.           
   13   

(f)  
  Through a voice response system (or other written or electronic means) approved by the Committee, the Participant may request that a pre-selected in-service distribution date be
cancelled (whether or not previously extended). The Participant must file the cancellation request with the Committee at least twelve (12) months before the scheduled date of distribution.         

(g)  
  The distribution amount shall be determined as soon as administratively feasible on or after the pre-selected distribution date and shall be actually paid as soon as practicable
after such determination.         

(h)  
  If the Participant dies or experiences a Termination of Directorship before the scheduled pre-selected in-service distribution date, no distribution shall be made on such date.
       8.9.2.  Pre-Selected In-Service Distributions from Post-2003 Account . Each Participant has the opportunity, when
enrolling in the Plan for each Plan Year beginning on or after January 1, 2004, to elect one (1) or more pre-selected in-service distribution dates for all or a portion of the Participant s Post-2003 Account attributable to deferrals
for such Plan Year (and any investment gains or losses on such deferrals), subject to the following rules:       

(a)  
  Such election shall be made through a voice response system (or other written or electronic means) approved by the Committee.         

(b)  
  No such distribution will be made before the January 1 of the calendar year that follows the third full Plan Year after the Participant was first eligible to elect a
pre-selected in-service distribution from that portion of the Participant s Post-2003 Account attributable to deferrals for such Plan Year and any subsequent investment gains or losses on such deferrals (e.g., the earliest pre-selected
in-service distribution date for any deferrals made in 2004 is January 1, 2007).         

(c)  
  A Participant may receive more than one (1) pre-selected in-service distribution from the Participant s Post-2003 Account in any Plan Year but only if each distribution is
attributable to deferrals for different Plan Years. Only one (1) pre-selected in-service distribution may be made in any Plan Year from that portion of the Participant s Post-2003 Account attributable to deferrals for the same Plan Year.

(d)  
  The Participant who elects a pre-selected in-service distribution date and subsequently experiences a Termination of Directorship will receive such in-service distribution, if the
in-service distribution date is prior to the distribution of the Participant s total Post-2003 Account.         

(e)  
  The minimum amount of any pre-selected in-service distribution from the Participant s Post-2003 Account is One Thousand Dollars ($1,000).         

(f)  
  Through a voice response system (or other written or electronic means) approved by the Committee, the Participant may elect to postpone any pre-selected in-service distribution date
for at least five (5) years. A pre-selected in-service distribution may be postponed only once. The Participant must file the election with the Committee at least twelve (12) months before the original scheduled date of distribution. Such
election shall not take effect until at least twelve (12) months after the date it is filed with the Committee.         

(g)  
  A Participant may not cancel any pre-selected in-service distribution from the Participant s Post-2003 Account.           
   14   

(h)  
  The distribution amount shall be determined as soon as administratively feasible on or after the pre-selected distribution date and shall be actually paid as soon as practicable
after such determination (and in any event within the same calendar year as the pre-selected distribution date).        8.9.3.
 On Demand In-Service Distributions .         

(a)  
   Election.  Through a voice response system (or other written or electronic means) approved by the Committee, a Participant may elect to receive all or a portion of such
Participant s Pre-2004 Account prior to Termination of Directorship for any reason; provided, however, that the requested distribution amount will be reduced by a penalty equal to ten percent (10%) of the requested amount, and the
Participant will receive ninety percent (90%) of the requested amount. The penalty of ten percent (10%) of the requested amount will be forfeited to UnitedHealth Group to be used as the Committee determines in its discretion. A Participant
may not elect to receive an on demand in-service distribution of any portion of the Participant s Post-2003 Account.         

(b)  
   Distribution Amount . The minimum amount of such distribution is One Thousand Dollars ($1,000). The amount of such distribution shall be determined as soon as administratively
feasible as of a Valuation Date following the receipt of the request by the Committee or its designee and shall be actually paid to the Participant as soon as practicable after such determination.        8.9.4.  In-Service Distribution for Unforeseeable Emergency .   A Participant who has incurred an unforeseeable emergency may request an
in-service distribution from the Participant s Account if the Committee determines that such distribution is for one of the purposes described in (b) below and the conditions in (b) below have been satisfied.       

(a)  
   Election . A Participant may elect in writing to receive distribution of all or part of the Participant s Account prior to a Termination of Directorship to alleviate an
unforeseeable emergency (as defined in (b) below). A Beneficiary of a deceased Participant may also request an early distribution for an unforeseeable emergency.         

(b)  
   Unforeseeable Emergency Defined . For purposes of this Section, an  unforeseeable emergency  means a severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from:

(i)  
  a sudden and unexpected illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant s spouse, the Participant s Beneficiary or the Participant s dependent (as defined in
section 152 of the Code, without regard to sections 152(b)(1), 152(b)(2) and 152(d)(1)(B) of the Code),         

(ii)  
  the loss of the Participant s property due to casualty, or         

(iii)  
  other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable emergency circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant.        Whether a Participant is faced with an unforeseeable emergency will be determined based on the relevant facts and circumstances. If a
severe financial hardship is or may be relieved either (i) through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise, (ii) by liquidation of the Participant s assets (to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself
cause severe financial hardship), or (iii) by cessation of deferrals under this Plan (at the earliest possible date otherwise permitted under this Plan) or any 401(k) plan, then the hardship shall not constitute an unforeseeable emergency for
purposes of this Plan.         
   15   

(c)  
   Distribution Amount . The amount of such distribution is limited to the amount reasonably necessary to satisfy the unforeseeable emergency. The amount of such distribution
shall be determined as soon as administratively feasible following the receipt and approval of the request by the Committee or its designee and shall be actually paid as soon as practicable after such approval (and in any event within 30 days after
such approval).         

(d)  
   Suspension Rule . If a Participant receives a distribution due to an unforeseeable emergency, the Participant s deferrals under Section 3 will cease as soon as
administratively practicable following the date such distribution is made. The Participant may not again elect to defer compensation under this Plan until the enrollment period for the Plan Year that begins at least six (6) months after such
distribution.        8.10.  Distributions in Cash . All distributions from this Plan shall be made in cash.       SECTION 9        FUNDING OF PLAN  
     9.1.  Unfunded Plan . The obligation of UnitedHealth Group to make payments under the Plan constitutes only the unsecured (but legally enforceable)
promises of UnitedHealth Group to make such payments. No Participant shall have any lien, prior claim or other security interest in any property of UnitedHealth Group. UnitedHealth Group shall have no obligation to establish or maintain any fund,
trust or account (other than a bookkeeping account) for the purpose of funding or paying the benefits promised under the Plan. If such a fund, trust or account is established, the property therein shall remain the sole and exclusive property of
UnitedHealth Group. UnitedHealth Group shall be obligated to pay the cost of the Plan out of its general assets. All references to accounts, accruals, gains, losses, income, expenses, payments, custodial funds and the like are included merely for
the purpose of measuring the obligation of UnitedHealth Group to Participants in the Plan and shall not be construed to impose on UnitedHealth Group the obligation to create any separate fund for purposes of the Plan.      9.2.  Corporate Obligation . Neither any officer of UnitedHealth Group nor any member of the Committee in any way secures or guarantees the payment of any benefit
or amount which may become due and payable hereunder to or with respect to any Participant. Each Participant and other person entitled at any time to payments hereunder shall look solely to the assets of UnitedHealth Group for such payments as an
unsecured, general creditor. After benefits have been paid to or with respect to a Participant and such payment purports to cover in full the benefit hereunder, such former Participant or other person or persons, as the case may be, shall have no
further right or interest in any other Plan assets. No person shall be under any liability or responsibility for failure to effect any of the objectives or purposes of this Plan by reason of the insolvency of UnitedHealth Group.       SECTION 10        AMENDMENT AND
TERMINATION       10.1.  Amendment and Termination . The Committee may unilaterally amend the Plan Statement prospectively, retroactively or both, at
any time and for any reason deemed sufficient by it without notice to any person affected by this Plan, and the Board of Directors may terminate this Plan both with regard to persons receiving benefits and persons expecting to receive benefits in
the future; provided, however, that:       

(a)  
   No Reduction or Delay . The benefit, if any, payable to or with respect to a Participant, whether or not the Participant has had a Termination of Directorship as of the
effective date of such amendment, shall not be, without the written consent of the Participant, diminished or delayed by such amendment.           
   16   

(b)  
   Cash Lump Sum Payment . To the extent permissible under section 409A of the Code and related Treasury regulations and guidance, if the Board of Directors terminates the Plan
completely with respect to all Participants, the Board shall have the right, in its sole discretion, and notwithstanding any elections made by Participants, to immediately pay all benefits in a lump sum following such Plan termination or to pay all
benefits on any other accelerated payment schedule that is permissible under section 409A of the Code.        10.2.  No Oral Amendments . No
oral representation concerning the interpretation or effect of the Plan Statement shall be effective to amend the Plan Statement. No amendment of the Plan Statement shall be effective unless it is in writing and signed on behalf of the Committee by
a person authorized to execute such writing. No termination of the Plan shall be effective unless it is in writing and signed on behalf of the Board of Directors by a person authorized to execute such writing.      10.3.  Plan Binding On Successors . UnitedHealth Group shall require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise of
all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of UnitedHealth Group), by agreement, to expressly assume and agree to perform this Plan Statement in the same manner and to the same extent that UnitedHealth Group would be required to perform
it if no such succession had taken place.       SECTION 11        DETERMINATIONS   RULES AND REGULATIONS       11.1.  Determinations . The Committee shall make such
determinations as may be required from time to time in the administration of the Plan. The Committee shall have the discretionary authority and responsibility to interpret and construe the Plan Statement and to determine all factual and legal
questions under the Plan, including but not limited to the entitlement of Participants and Beneficiaries, and the amounts of their respective interests. Each interested party may act and rely upon all information reported to them hereunder and need
not inquire into the accuracy thereof, nor be charged with any notice to the contrary.      11.2.  Rules and Regulations . Any rule not in conflict or at
variance with the provisions hereof may be adopted by the Committee.      11.3.  Method of Executing Instruments . Information to be supplied or written
notices to be made or consents to be given by the Committee pursuant to any provision of the Plan Statement may be signed in the name of the Committee by any officer who has been authorized to make such certification or to give such notices or
consents.      11.4.  Claims Procedure . The claims procedure set forth in this Section 11.4 shall be the exclusive administrative procedure for the
disposition of claims for benefits arising under the Plan.      11.4.1.  Original Claim . Any person may, if he or she so desires, file
with the Committee a written claim for benefits under the Plan. Within ninety (90) days after the filing of such a claim, the Committee shall notify the claimant in writing whether the claim is upheld or denied in whole or in part or shall
furnish the claimant a written notice describing specific special circumstances requiring a specified amount of additional time (but not more than one hundred eighty (180) days from the date the claim was filed) to reach a decision on the
claim. If the claim is denied in whole or in part, the Committee shall state in writing:       

(a)  
  the specific reasons for the denial;         

(b)  
  the specific references to the pertinent provisions of the Plan Statement on which the denial is based;           
   17   

(c)  
  a description of any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary; and

(d)  
  an explanation of the claims review procedure set forth in this section.        11.4.2.  Review of Denied Claim . Within sixty (60) days after receipt of notice that the claim has been denied in whole or in part, the claimant may file with the Committee a written request for a review
and may, in conjunction therewith, submit written issues and comments. Within sixty (60) days after the filing of such a request for review, the Committee shall notify the claimant in writing whether, upon review, the claim was upheld or denied
in whole or in part or shall furnish the claimant a written notice describing specific special circumstances requiring a specified amount of additional time (but not more than one hundred twenty (120) days from the date the request for review
was filed) to reach a decision on the request for review. If the claimant wishes to seek further review of the Committee s decision upon review, the claimant shall submit the claim (or dispute or complaint) to binding arbitration pursuant to
the rules of the American Arbitration Association. This is the only right a complainant has for further consideration. The matter must be submitted to binding arbitration within one (1) year of receipt of notice of the Committee s final
decision upon review. The arbitrators shall have no power to award any punitive or exemplary damages or to vary or ignore the provisions of the Plan Statement and shall be bound by controlling law.      11.4.3.  General Rules .         

(a)  
  No inquiry or question shall be deemed to be a claim or a request for a review of a denied claim unless made in accordance with the claims procedure. The Committee may require that
any claim for benefits and any request for a review of a denied claim be filed on forms to be furnished by the Committee upon request.         

(b)  
  All decisions on original claims and all decisions on requests for a review of denied claims shall be made by the Committee.         

(c)  
  The Committee may, in its discretion, hold one or more hearings on a claim or a request for a review of a denied claim.         

(d)  
  A claimant may be represented by a lawyer or other representative (at the claimant s own expense), but the Committee reserves the right to require the claimant to furnish
written authorization. A claimant s representative shall be entitled, upon request, to copies of all notices given to the claimant.         

(e)  
  The decision of the Committee on a claim and a decision of the Committee on a request for a review of a denied claim shall be served on the claimant in writing. If a decision or
notice is not received by a claimant within the time specified, the claim or request for a review of a denied claim shall be deemed to have been denied.         

(f)  
  Prior to filing a claim or a request for a review of a denied claim, the claimant or his or her representative shall have a reasonable opportunity to review a copy of the Plan
Statement and all other pertinent documents in the possession of the Committee.         

(g)  
  The Committee may permanently or temporarily delegate its responsibilities under this claims procedure to an individual or a committee of individuals.           
   18   

11.5.  Limitations And Exhaustion .        11.5.1.  Limitations . No claim shall be considered under these administrative procedures unless it is filed with the Committee within one
(1) year after the claimant knew (or reasonably should have known) of the principal facts on which the claim is based. Every untimely claim shall be denied by the Committee without regard to the merits of the claim. No legal action (whether
arising under any statute or non-statutory law) may be brought by any claimant on any matter pertaining to the Plan unless the legal action is commenced in the proper forum before the earlier of:       

(a)  
  two (2) years after the claimant knew (or reasonably should have known) of the principal facts on which the claim is based, or         

(b)  
  ninety (90) days after the claimant has exhausted these administrative procedures.        Knowledge of all facts that a Participant knew (or reasonably should have known) shall be imputed to each claimant who is or claims to be a Beneficiary of the Participant (or otherwise claims to derive an entitlement
by reference to a Participant) for the purpose of applying the one (1) year and two (2) year periods.      11.5.2.  Exhaustion
Required . The exhaustion of these administrative procedures is mandatory for resolving every claim and dispute arising under the Plan. As to such claims and disputes:       

(a)  
  no claimant shall be permitted to commence any legal action relating to any such claim or dispute (whether arising under any statute or non-statutory law) unless a timely claim has
been filed under these administrative procedures and these administrative procedures have been exhausted; and         

(b)  
  in any such legal action all explicit and implicit determinations by the Committee (including, but not limited to, determinations as to whether the claim was timely filed) shall be
afforded the maximum deference permitted by law.         SECTION 12        PLAN ADMINISTRATION       12.1.  Officers . Except as hereinafter provided, functions generally
assigned to UnitedHealth Group shall be discharged by its officers or delegated and allocated as provided herein.      12.2.  Chief Executive Officer .
Except as hereinafter provided, the Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group may delegate or redelegate and allocate and reallocate to one or more persons or to a committee of persons jointly or severally, and whether or not such persons are
directors, officers or employees, such functions assigned to UnitedHealth Group generally hereunder as he or she may from time to time deem advisable.      12.3.  Board Of Directors . Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board of Directors shall have the sole authority to terminate the Plan.      12.4.
 Committee . The Committee shall:       

(a)  
  keep a record of all its proceedings and acts and keep all books of account, records and other data as may be necessary for the proper administration of the Plan; notify
UnitedHealth Group of any action taken by the Committee and, when required, notify any other interested person or persons;         

(b)  
  determine from the records of UnitedHealth Group the compensation, status and other facts regarding Participants;         

(c)  
  prescribe forms to be used for distributions, notifications, etc., as may be required in the administration of the Plan;           
   19   

(d)  
  set up such rules, applicable to all Participants similarly situated, as are deemed necessary to carry out the terms of this Plan Statement;         

(e)  
  perform all other acts reasonably necessary for administering the Plan and carrying out the provisions of this Plan Statement and performing the duties imposed on it by the Board of
Directors;         

(f)  
  resolve all questions of administration of the Plan not specifically referred to in this section;         

(g)  
  provide adequate notice in writing to any claimant whose claim for benefits under the Plan has been denied, setting forth the specific reasons for such denial, written in a manner
calculated to be understood by the claimant; and         

(h)  
  delegate or redelegate to one or more persons, jointly or severally, and whether or not such persons are members of the Committee or employees of UnitedHealth Group, such functions
assigned to the Committee hereunder as it may from time to time deem advisable.        If there shall at any time be three (3) or more members
of the Committee serving hereunder who are qualified to perform a particular act, the same may be performed, on behalf of all, by a majority of those qualified, with or without the concurrence of the minority. No person who failed to join or concur
in such act shall be held liable for the consequences thereof.      12.5.  Delegation . The Board of Directors and the members of the Committee shall not
be liable for an act or omission of another person with regard to a responsibility that has been allocated to or delegated to such other person pursuant to the terms of the Plan Statement or pursuant to procedures set forth in the Plan Statement.
     12.6.  Conflict of Interest . If any individual to whom authority has been delegated or redelegated hereunder shall also be a Participant in the
Plan, such Participant shall have no authority with respect to any matter specially affecting such Participant s individual rights hereunder (as distinguished from the rights of all Participants and Beneficiaries or a broad class of
Participants and Beneficiaries), all such authority being reserved exclusively to other individuals as the case may be, to the exclusion of such Participant, and such Participant shall act only in such Participant s individual capacity in
connection with any such matter.      12.7.  Service of Process . In the absence of any designation to the contrary by the Committee, the General Counsel
of UnitedHealth Group is designated as the appropriate and exclusive agent for the receipt of process directed to this Plan in any legal proceeding, including arbitration, involving the Plan.      12.8.  Expenses . The expenses of administering this Plan shall be payable out of the trust fund, if any, established for this Plan except to the extent that
UnitedHealth Group, in its discretion, directly pays the expenses. If no such trust fund exists, UnitedHealth Group shall pay such expenses.      12.9.
 Certifications . Information to be supplied or written notices to be made or consents to be given by the Committee pursuant to any provision of this Plan Statement may be signed in the name of the Committee by any officer who has been
authorized to make such certification or to give such notices or consents.      12.10.  Errors In Computations . UnitedHealth Group shall not be liable or
responsible for any error in the computation of the Account or the determination of any benefit payable to or with respect to any Participant resulting from any misstatement of fact made by the Participant or by or on behalf of any survivor to whom
such benefit shall be payable, directly or indirectly, to UnitedHealth Group and used by the Committee in determining the benefit. The Committee shall not be obligated or required to increase the benefit payable to or with respect to such
Participant which, on discovery of the misstatement, is found to be understated as a result of such misstatement of the Participant. However, the benefit of any Participant which is overstated by reason of any such misstatement or any other reason
shall be reduced to the amount appropriate in view of the truth (and to recover any prior overpayment).         
   20   

SECTION 13        CONSTRUCTION       13.1.  Applicable Laws .        13.1.1.  ERISA Status . Since no employee of UnitedHealth Group or any affiliate may actively participate in this Plan (see Sections 2 and 3.3),
this Plan is not subject to regulation under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ).      13.1.2.  IRC
Status . The Plan is intended to be a nonqualified, unfunded, deferred compensation arrangement.      13.1.3.  References to Laws.  Any
reference in the Plan Statement to a statute or regulation shall be considered also to mean and refer to any subsequent amendment or replacement of that statute or regulation.      13.2.  Effect on Other Plans . This Plan Statement shall not alter, enlarge or diminish any person s rights or obligations under any other benefit plan for members of the Board of Directors.      13.3.  Disqualification . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan Statement or any election or designation made under the Plan, any potential Beneficiary
who feloniously and intentionally kills a Participant shall be deemed for all purposes of the Plan and all elections and designations made under the Plan to have died before such Participant. A final judgment of conviction of felonious and
intentional killing is conclusive for this purpose. In the absence of a conviction of felonious and intentional killing, the Committee shall determine whether the killing was felonious and intentional for this purpose.      13.4.  Rules of Document Construction .       

(a)  
  Whenever appropriate, words used herein in the singular may be read in the plural, or words used herein in the plural may be read in the singular; the masculine may include the
feminine; and the words  hereof,   herein  or  hereunder  or other similar compounds of the word  here  shall mean and refer to the entire Plan Statement and not to any particular paragraph or Section of the
Plan Statement unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary.         

(b)  
  The titles given to the various Sections of the Plan Statement are inserted for convenience of reference only and are not part of the Plan Statement, and they shall not be
considered in determining the purpose, meaning or intent of any provision hereof.         

(c)  
  Notwithstanding any thing apparently to the contrary contained in the Plan Statement, the Plan Statement shall be construed and administered to prevent the duplication of benefits
provided under the Plan and any other plan maintained in whole or in part by UnitedHealth Group.        13.5.  Choice of Law . This instrument
has been executed and delivered in the State of Minnesota and has been drawn in conformity to the laws of that State and shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota.      13.6.  Section 409A . It is intended that any amounts payable under this Plan shall comply with Section 409A of the Code (including Treasury Regulations
and other published guidance related thereto) so as not to subject Participants to payment of any additional tax, penalty, or interest imposed under Section 409A of the Code. The  
       
   21   

Plan shall be construed in a manner to give effect to such intention. In no event whatsoever shall UnitedHealth Group and/or any of its affiliates be liable
for any tax, interest or penalties that may be imposed on any Participant (or any Participant s estate) under Section 409A of the Code. Neither UnitedHealth Group and/or any of its affiliates shall have any obligation to indemnify or
otherwise hold a Participant (or any Participant s estate) harmless from any or all such taxes, interest or penalties, or liability for any damages related thereto       
  
   22   

</EX-10.18>

<EX-10.22>
 12
 dex1022.htm
 AMEND. TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT AND AGREEMENT FOR SUPP. EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN

Amend. to Employment Agreement and Agreement for Supp. Executive Retirement Plan 

Exhibit 10.22        AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT AND SERP       This AMENDMENT AGREEMENT (the  Amendment ) modifies certain
terms and conditions of Executive s employment agreement with UnitedHealth Care Services, Inc. or an affiliated entity (the  Employment Agreement ) and agreement for supplemental executive retirement pay ( SERP ) for
purposes of establishing documentary compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and its accompanying regulations ( Section 409A ), and to permit ongoing operational compliance with Section 409A.
Accordingly, in exchange for the mutual promises set forth below, notwithstanding anything else to the contrary in the Employment Agreement and SERP, Executive s Employment Agreement and SERP are amended, effective December 31, 2008, as
follows:       

1.  
  The last sentence of Section 3(b) of the Employment Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:         It is UnitedHealth Group s intent to issue any such bonus payments, equity awards and long-term incentive compensation payments under this
Section 3(b) that are earned and vested during a calendar year not later than March 15 of the following year. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event such bonus and/or other incentive that is earned and vested during a calendar year is
not paid by the March 15 following the last day of the calendar year, such amounts will be paid in a lump-sum no later than December 31 of the year following the year in which such amounts were earned and vested.        

2.  
  Section 4(d) of the Employment Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:          Termination of Employment by UnitedHealth Group without Cause.  If Executive s employment with UnitedHealth Group is terminated by
UnitedHealth Group without Cause other than upon the expiration of the then current original four-year period or any subsequent one-year period as described in Section 1, as applicable, then, upon termination of Executive s employment as
severance and in lieu of any other compensation, Executive shall be entitled to an amount equal to annual base salary for the longer of (i) the remainder of the Employment period and (ii) twelve months, less all applicable withholdings or
deductions, payable in a lump sum on the date of such termination of employment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if UnitedHealth Group determines that Executive s payments under this Section are subject to Section 409A of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ), such payment shall be delayed six months and one day after Executive s separation from service (to the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A). The first cash payment made
following such delay shall include a lump sum of all prior missed payments.        

3.  
  Section 4(i) of the Employment Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:          Termination of Employment by Executive for Good Reason.  If Executive s employment with UnitedHealth Group is terminated by Executive for
Good Reason, then, upon termination of Executive s employment as severance and in lieu of any other compensation, Executive shall be entitled to an amount equal to annual base salary for the longer of (i) the remainder of the Employment
period and (ii) twelve months, less all applicable withholdings or deductions, payable in a lump sum on the date of such termination of employment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if UnitedHealth Group determines that Executive s payments
under this Section are subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ), such payment shall be delayed six months and one day after Executive s separation from service (to the extent necessary
to comply with Section 409A). The first cash payment made following such delay shall include a lump sum of all prior missed payments.    

4.  
  Subject to paragraph 6 below, to the extent that Executive s Employment Agreement does not already provide a schedule of payment(s) for severance compensation subject to
Section 409A that is in compliance with Section 409A, then such severance compensation will be paid, minus applicable deductions, including deductions for tax withholding, in equal bi-weekly payments (other than as provided in paragraph 6
below with respect to the first payment) on the regular payroll cycle commencing on the Starting Date (as defined below) and continuing until the end of the severance period specified in the Employment Agreement (and for these purposes, any company
option to make payment in a lump-sum shall not apply). If Executive becomes entitled to severance compensation, such payments shall be considered and are hereby designated as, a series of separate payments for purposes of Section 409A. Further,
all severance compensation payable under the Employment Agreement shall be paid by, and no further severance compensation shall be paid or payable after December 31 of the second calendar year following the year in which Executive s
Termination (as defined below) occurs. Any reimbursements provided for in Executive s Employment Agreement will be paid in accordance with the expense reimbursement policies of United HealthCare Services, Inc. and its affiliates
( UnitedHealth Group ).         

5.  
  For purposes of payment of the severance compensation, Executive will be considered to have experienced a termination of employment as of the date that the facts and circumstances
indicate that it is reasonably anticipated that Executive will provide no further services after such date or that the level of bona fide services that Executive is expected to perform permanently decreases to no more than 20% of the average level
of bona fide services that Executive performed over the immediately preceding 36-month period. Whether Executive has had a termination of employment will be determined in a manner consistent with the definition of  separation from service 
under Section 409A. A termination of employment will mean a  separation from service  and will be referred to as a  Termination .         

6.  
  If Executive is a  specified employee  (within the meaning of Section 409A and determined pursuant to procedures adopted by UnitedHealth Group) at the time of
Executive s Termination and any amount that would be paid to Executive during the six-month period following Termination constitutes a deferral of compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A), such amount shall not be paid to
Executive until the later of (i) six months after the date of Executive s Termination, and (ii) the payment date or commencement date specified in this Agreement for such payment(s). On the first regular payroll date following the
expiration of such six-month period (or if Executive dies during the 6-month period, the first payroll date following the death), any payments that were delayed pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be paid to Executive in a single lump sum and
thereafter all payments shall be made as if there had been no such delay.         

7.  
  To the extent applicable, it is intended that the compensation arrangements under the Employment Agreement and SERP be in full compliance with Section 409A. This Agreement
shall be construed in a manner to give effect to such intention. In no event whatsoever shall UnitedHealth Group be liable for any tax, interest or penalties that may be imposed on Executive under Section 409A. Neither UnitedHealth Group
nor any of its affiliates have any obligation to indemnify or otherwise hold Executive harmless from any or all such taxes, interest or penalties, or liability for any damages related thereto.         

8.  
  The agreement for supplemental executive retirement pay effective as of April 1, 2004, amended effective as of November 7, 2006, is further amended effective
December 31, 2008 to delete Section 1.6(ii) and replace with the following Section 1.6(ii)  payment shall only be further delayed for purposes of maximizing UnitedHealth Group s federal income tax deduction to the extent
permitted under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.      

Except as expressly set forth in this Amendment, the Employment Agreement and SERP remain in full force and effect
according to their terms.       

</EX-10.22>

<EX-10.25>
 13
 dex1025.htm
 AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT -GEORGE MIKAN III

Amendment to Employment Agreement -George Mikan III 

Exhibit 10.25        AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT       This AMENDMENT AGREEMENT (the  Amendment ) modifies certain terms and
conditions of Executive s employment agreement with UnitedHealth Care Services, Inc. or an affiliated entity (the  Employment Agreement ) for purposes of establishing documentary compliance with Section 409A of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 and its accompanying regulations ( Section 409A ), and to permit ongoing operational compliance with Section 409A. Accordingly, in exchange for the mutual promises set forth below, notwithstanding anything else to
the contrary in the Employment Agreement, Executive s Employment Agreement is amended, effective December 31, 2008, as follows:       

1.  
  Subject to paragraph 4 below, to the extent that Executive s Employment Agreement does not already provide a schedule of payment(s) for severance compensation subject to
Section 409A that is in compliance with Section 409A, then such severance compensation will be paid, minus applicable deductions, including deductions for tax withholding, in equal bi-weekly payments (other than as provided in paragraphs 3
and 4 below with respect to the first payment) on the regular payroll cycle commencing on the Starting Date (as defined below) and continuing until the end of the severance period specified in the Employment Agreement (and for these purposes, any
company option to make payment in a lump-sum shall not apply). If Executive becomes entitled to severance compensation, such payments shall be considered and are hereby designated as, a series of separate payments for purposes of Section 409A.
Further, all severance compensation payable under the Employment Agreement shall be paid by, and no further severance compensation shall be paid or payable after December 31 of the second calendar year following the year in which
Executive s Termination (as defined below) occurs. Any reimbursements provided for in Executive s Employment Agreement will be paid in accordance with the expense reimbursement policies of United HealthCare Services, Inc. and its
affiliates ( UnitedHealth Group ).         

2.  
  For purposes of payment of the severance compensation, Executive will be considered to have experienced a termination of employment as of the date that the facts and circumstances
indicate that it is reasonably anticipated that Executive will provide no further services after such date or that the level of bona fide services that Executive is expected to perform permanently decreases to no more than 20% of the average level
of bona fide services that Executive performed over the immediately preceding 36-month period. Whether Executive has had a termination of employment will be determined in a manner consistent with the definition of  separation from service 
under Section 409A. A termination of employment will mean a  separation from service  and will be referred to as a  Termination .         

3.  
    With respect to a severance compensation payment subject to Section 409A that is not already in compliance with Section 409A, commencement of severance
payments shall begin on the first payroll date that occurs in the first month that begins at least 60 days after the date of Executive s Termination (the  Starting Date ), provided that Executive has satisfied the requirement to sign
a release of claims. The first payment on the Starting Date shall include those payments that would have been previously paid if the payments of the severance compensation had begun on the first payroll date following the date of Executive s
Termination. UnitedHealth Group shall provide to Executive a  

form of separation agreement and release of claims no later than three (3) days following Executive s date of Termination. Executive must execute
and deliver the separation agreement and release of claims within fifty (50) days after Executive s date of Termination. If Executive does not timely execute and deliver to UnitedHealth Group such separation agreement and release, or if
Executive does so, but then revokes it if permitted by and within the time required by applicable law, UnitedHealth Group will have no obligation to pay severance compensation to Executive.          

4.  
  If Executive is a  specified employee  (within the meaning of Section 409A and determined pursuant to procedures adopted by UnitedHealth Group) at the time of
Executive s Termination and any amount that would be paid to Executive during the six-month period following Termination constitutes a deferral of compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A), such amount shall not be paid to
Executive until the later of (i) six months after the date of Executive s Termination, and (ii) the payment date or commencement date specified in this Agreement for such payment(s). On the first regular payroll date following the
expiration of such six-month period (or if Executive dies during the 6-month period, the first payroll date following the death), any payments that were delayed pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be paid to Executive in a single lump sum and
thereafter all payments shall be made as if there had been no such delay.         

5.  
  To the extent applicable, it is intended that the compensation arrangements under this Agreement be in full compliance with Section 409A. This Agreement shall be construed
in a manner to give effect to such intention. In no event whatsoever shall UnitedHealth Group be liable for any tax, interest or penalties that may be imposed on Executive under Section 409A. Neither UnitedHealth Group nor any of its
affiliates have any obligation to indemnify or otherwise hold Executive harmless from any or all such taxes, interest or penalties, or liability for any damages related thereto.        Except as expressly set forth in this Amendment, the Employment Agreement remains in full force and effect according to its terms.       

UNITED HEALTHCARE SERVICES, INC.  

EXECUTIVE   

By  
     
    /s/ Lori Sweere   

/s/ George L. Mikan III    

George L. Mikan III   
 
  Its     Executive Vice President, Human Capital  

Date  December 8, 2008  

Date   December 16, 2008   

</EX-10.25>

<EX-10.27>
 14
 dex1027.htm
 AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - WILLIAM A. MUNSELL

Amendment to Employment Agreement - William A. Munsell 

Exhibit 10.27        AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT       This AMENDMENT AGREEMENT (the  Amendment ) modifies certain terms and
conditions of Executive s employment agreement with UnitedHealth Care Services, Inc. or an affiliated entity (the  Employment Agreement ) for purposes of establishing documentary compliance with Section 409A of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 and its accompanying regulations ( Section 409A ), and to permit ongoing operational compliance with Section 409A. Accordingly, in exchange for the mutual promises set forth below, notwithstanding anything else to
the contrary in the Employment Agreement, Executive s Employment Agreement is amended, effective December 31, 2008, as follows:       

1.  
  Subject to paragraph 4 below, to the extent that Executive s Employment Agreement does not already provide a schedule of payment(s) for severance compensation subject to
Section 409A that is in compliance with Section 409A, then such severance compensation will be paid, minus applicable deductions, including deductions for tax withholding, in equal bi-weekly payments (other than as provided in paragraphs 3
and 4 below with respect to the first payment) on the regular payroll cycle commencing on the Starting Date (as defined below) and continuing until the end of the severance period specified in the Employment Agreement (and for these purposes, any
company option to make payment in a lump-sum shall not apply). If Executive becomes entitled to severance compensation, such payments shall be considered and are hereby designated as, a series of separate payments for purposes of Section 409A.
Further, all severance compensation payable under the Employment Agreement shall be paid by, and no further severance compensation shall be paid or payable after December 31 of the second calendar year following the year in which
Executive s Termination (as defined below) occurs. Any reimbursements provided for in Executive s Employment Agreement will be paid in accordance with the expense reimbursement policies of United HealthCare Services, Inc. and its
affiliates ( UnitedHealth Group ).         

2.  
  For purposes of payment of the severance compensation, Executive will be considered to have experienced a termination of employment as of the date that the facts and circumstances
indicate that it is reasonably anticipated that Executive will provide no further services after such date or that the level of bona fide services that Executive is expected to perform permanently decreases to no more than 20% of the average level
of bona fide services that Executive performed over the immediately preceding 36-month period. Whether Executive has had a termination of employment will be determined in a manner consistent with the definition of  separation from service 
under Section 409A. A termination of employment will mean a  separation from service  and will be referred to as a  Termination .         

3.  
    With respect to a severance compensation payment subject to Section 409A that is not already in compliance with Section 409A, commencement of severance
payments shall begin on the first payroll date that occurs in the first month that begins at least 60 days after the date of Executive s Termination (the  Starting Date ), provided that Executive has satisfied the requirement to sign
a release of claims. The first payment on the Starting Date shall include those payments that would have been previously paid if the payments of the severance compensation had begun on the first payroll date following the date of Executive s
Termination. UnitedHealth Group shall provide to Executive a form of separation agreement and release of claims no later than three (3) days  

following Executive s date of Termination. Executive must execute and deliver the separation agreement and release of claims within fifty (50) days
after Executive s date of Termination. If Executive does not timely execute and deliver to UnitedHealth Group such separation agreement and release, or if Executive does so, but then revokes it if permitted by and within the time required by
applicable law, UnitedHealth Group will have no obligation to pay severance compensation to Executive.          

4.  
  If Executive is a  specified employee  (within the meaning of Section 409A and determined pursuant to procedures adopted by UnitedHealth Group) at the time of
Executive s Termination and any amount that would be paid to Executive during the six-month period following Termination constitutes a deferral of compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A), such amount shall not be paid to
Executive until the later of (i) six months after the date of Executive s Termination, and (ii) the payment date or commencement date specified in this Agreement for such payment(s). On the first regular payroll date following the
expiration of such six-month period (or if Executive dies during the 6-month period, the first payroll date following the death), any payments that were delayed pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be paid to Executive in a single lump sum and
thereafter all payments shall be made as if there had been no such delay.         

5.  
  To the extent applicable, it is intended that the compensation arrangements under this Agreement be in full compliance with Section 409A. This Agreement shall be construed
in a manner to give effect to such intention. In no event whatsoever shall UnitedHealth Group be liable for any tax, interest or penalties that may be imposed on Executive under Section 409A. Neither UnitedHealth Group nor any of its
affiliates have any obligation to indemnify or otherwise hold Executive harmless from any or all such taxes, interest or penalties, or liability for any damages related thereto.        Except as expressly set forth in this Amendment, the Employment Agreement remains in full force and effect according to its terms.       

UNITED HEALTHCARE SERVICES, INC.  

EXECUTIVE   

By  
     
    /s/ Lori Sweere   

/s/ William Munsell    

William Munsell   
 
  Its     Executive Vice President, Human Capital  

Date  December 8, 2008  

Date   December 11, 2008   

</EX-10.27>

<EX-10.29>
 15
 dex1029.htm
 AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - ERIC S. RANGEN

Amendment to Employment Agreement - Eric S. Rangen 

Exhibit 10.29        AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT       This AMENDMENT AGREEMENT (the  Amendment ) modifies certain terms and
conditions of Executive s employment agreement with UnitedHealth Care Services, Inc. or an affiliated entity (the  Employment Agreement ) for purposes of establishing documentary compliance with Section 409A of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 and its accompanying regulations ( Section 409A ), and to permit ongoing operational compliance with Section 409A. Accordingly, in exchange for the mutual promises set forth below, notwithstanding anything else to
the contrary in the Employment Agreement, Executive s Employment Agreement is amended, effective December 31, 2008, as follows:       

1.  
  Subject to paragraph 4 below, to the extent that Executive s Employment Agreement does not already provide a schedule of payment(s) for severance compensation subject to
Section 409A that is in compliance with Section 409A, then such severance compensation will be paid, minus applicable deductions, including deductions for tax withholding, in equal bi-weekly payments (other than as provided in paragraphs 3
and 4 below with respect to the first payment) on the regular payroll cycle commencing on the Starting Date (as defined below) and continuing until the end of the severance period specified in the Employment Agreement (and for these purposes, any
company option to make payment in a lump-sum shall not apply). If Executive becomes entitled to severance compensation, such payments shall be considered and are hereby designated as, a series of separate payments for purposes of Section 409A.
Further, all severance compensation payable under the Employment Agreement shall be paid by, and no further severance compensation shall be paid or payable after December 31 of the second calendar year following the year in which
Executive s Termination (as defined below) occurs. Any reimbursements provided for in Executive s Employment Agreement will be paid in accordance with the expense reimbursement policies of United HealthCare Services, Inc. and its
affiliates ( UnitedHealth Group ).         

2.  
  For purposes of payment of the severance compensation, Executive will be considered to have experienced a termination of employment as of the date that the facts and circumstances
indicate that it is reasonably anticipated that Executive will provide no further services after such date or that the level of bona fide services that Executive is expected to perform permanently decreases to no more than 20% of the average level
of bona fide services that Executive performed over the immediately preceding 36-month period. Whether Executive has had a termination of employment will be determined in a manner consistent with the definition of  separation from service 
under Section 409A. A termination of employment will mean a  separation from service  and will be referred to as a  Termination .         

3.  
    With respect to a severance compensation payment subject to Section 409A that is not already in compliance with Section 409A, commencement of severance
payments shall begin on the first payroll date that occurs in the first month that begins at least 60 days after the date of Executive s Termination (the  Starting Date ), provided that Executive has satisfied the requirement to sign
a release of claims. The first payment on the Starting Date shall include those payments that would have been previously paid if the payments of the severance compensation had begun on the first payroll date following the date of Executive s
Termination. UnitedHealth Group shall provide to Executive a form of separation agreement and release of claims no later than three (3) days  

following Executive s date of Termination. Executive must execute and deliver the separation agreement and release of claims within fifty (50) days
after Executive s date of Termination. If Executive does not timely execute and deliver to UnitedHealth Group such separation agreement and release, or if Executive does so, but then revokes it if permitted by and within the time required by
applicable law, UnitedHealth Group will have no obligation to pay severance compensation to Executive.          

4.  
  If Executive is a  specified employee  (within the meaning of Section 409A and determined pursuant to procedures adopted by UnitedHealth Group) at the time of
Executive s Termination and any amount that would be paid to Executive during the six-month period following Termination constitutes a deferral of compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A), such amount shall not be paid to
Executive until the later of (i) six months after the date of Executive s Termination, and (ii) the payment date or commencement date specified in this Agreement for such payment(s). On the first regular payroll date following the
expiration of such six-month period (or if Executive dies during the 6-month period, the first payroll date following the death), any payments that were delayed pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be paid to Executive in a single lump sum and
thereafter all payments shall be made as if there had been no such delay.         

5.  
  To the extent applicable, it is intended that the compensation arrangements under this Agreement be in full compliance with Section 409A. This Agreement shall be construed
in a manner to give effect to such intention. In no event whatsoever shall UnitedHealth Group be liable for any tax, interest or penalties that may be imposed on Executive under Section 409A. Neither UnitedHealth Group nor any of its
affiliates have any obligation to indemnify or otherwise hold Executive harmless from any or all such taxes, interest or penalties, or liability for any damages related thereto.        Except as expressly set forth in this Amendment, the Employment Agreement remains in full force and effect according to its terms.       

UNITED HEALTHCARE SERVICES, INC.  

EXECUTIVE   

By  
     
    /s/ Lori Sweere   

/s/ Eric S. Rangen    

Lori Sweere  

Eric S. Rangen   

Executive Vice President, Human Capital  

UnitedHealth Group  

Date: December 8, 2008   

</EX-10.29>

<EX-10.31>
 16
 dex1031.htm
 AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - THOMAS L. STRICKLAND

Amendment to Employment Agreement - Thomas L. Strickland 

Exhibit 10.31        AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT       This AMENDMENT AGREEMENT (the  Amendment ) modifies certain terms and
conditions of Executive s employment agreement with UnitedHealth Care Services, Inc. or an affiliated entity (the  Employment Agreement ) for purposes of establishing documentary compliance with Section 409A of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 and its accompanying regulations ( Section 409A ), and to permit ongoing operational compliance with Section 409A. Accordingly, in exchange for the mutual promises set forth below, notwithstanding anything else to
the contrary in the Employment Agreement, Executive s Employment Agreement is amended, effective December 31, 2008, as follows:       

1.  
  Subject to paragraph 4 below, to the extent that Executive s Employment Agreement does not already provide a schedule of payment(s) for severance compensation subject to
Section 409A that is in compliance with Section 409A, then such severance compensation will be paid, minus applicable deductions, including deductions for tax withholding, in equal bi-weekly payments (other than as provided in paragraphs 3
and 4 below with respect to the first payment) on the regular payroll cycle commencing on the Starting Date (as defined below) and continuing until the end of the severance period specified in the Employment Agreement (and for these purposes, any
company option to make payment in a lump-sum shall not apply). If Executive becomes entitled to severance compensation, such payments shall be considered and are hereby designated as, a series of separate payments for purposes of Section 409A.
Further, all severance compensation payable under the Employment Agreement shall be paid by, and no further severance compensation shall be paid or payable after December 31 of the second calendar year following the year in which
Executive s Termination (as defined below) occurs. Any reimbursements provided for in Executive s Employment Agreement will be paid in accordance with the expense reimbursement policies of United HealthCare Services, Inc. and its
affiliates ( UnitedHealth Group ).         

2.  
  For purposes of payment of the severance compensation, Executive will be considered to have experienced a termination of employment as of the date that the facts and circumstances
indicate that it is reasonably anticipated that Executive will provide no further services after such date or that the level of bona fide services that Executive is expected to perform permanently decreases to no more than 20% of the average level
of bona fide services that Executive performed over the immediately preceding 36-month period. Whether Executive has had a termination of employment will be determined in a manner consistent with the definition of  separation from service 
under Section 409A. A termination of employment will mean a  separation from service  and will be referred to as a  Termination .         

3.  
    With respect to a severance compensation payment subject to Section 409A that is not already in compliance with Section 409A, commencement of severance
payments shall begin on the first payroll date that occurs in the first month that begins at least 60 days after the date of Executive s Termination (the  Starting Date ), provided that Executive has satisfied the requirement to sign
a release of claims. The first payment on the Starting Date shall include those payments that would have been previously paid if the payments of the severance compensation had begun on the first payroll date following the date of Executive s
Termination. UnitedHealth Group shall provide to Executive a form of separation agreement and release of claims no later than three (3) days  

following Executive s date of Termination. Executive must execute and deliver the separation agreement and release of claims within fifty (50) days
after Executive s date of Termination. If Executive does not timely execute and deliver to UnitedHealth Group such separation agreement and release, or if Executive does so, but then revokes it if permitted by and within the time required by
applicable law, UnitedHealth Group will have no obligation to pay severance compensation to Executive.          

4.  
  If Executive is a  specified employee  (within the meaning of Section 409A and determined pursuant to procedures adopted by UnitedHealth Group) at the time of
Executive s Termination and any amount that would be paid to Executive during the six-month period following Termination constitutes a deferral of compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A), such amount shall not be paid to
Executive until the later of (i) six months after the date of Executive s Termination, and (ii) the payment date or commencement date specified in this Agreement for such payment(s). On the first regular payroll date following the
expiration of such six-month period (or if Executive dies during the 6-month period, the first payroll date following the death), any payments that were delayed pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be paid to Executive in a single lump sum and
thereafter all payments shall be made as if there had been no such delay.         

5.  
  To the extent applicable, it is intended that the compensation arrangements under this Agreement be in full compliance with Section 409A. This Agreement shall be construed
in a manner to give effect to such intention. In no event whatsoever shall UnitedHealth Group be liable for any tax, interest or penalties that may be imposed on Executive under Section 409A. Neither UnitedHealth Group nor any of its
affiliates have any obligation to indemnify or otherwise hold Executive harmless from any or all such taxes, interest or penalties, or liability for any damages related thereto.        Except as expressly set forth in this Amendment, the Employment Agreement remains in full force and effect according to its terms.       

UNITED HEALTHCARE SERVICES, INC.  

EXECUTIVE   

By  
     
    /s/ Lori Sweere   

/s/ Thomas L. Strickland    
 
  Its  
     
  Executive Vice President, Human Capital  

Thomas L. Strickland   
 
  Date  
     
  December 8, 2008  

Date  December 11, 2008   

</EX-10.31>

<EX-10.33>
 17
 dex1033.htm
 AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - LORI SWEERE

Amendment to Employment Agreement - Lori Sweere 

Exhibit 10.33        AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT       This AMENDMENT AGREEMENT (the  Amendment ) modifies certain terms and
conditions of Executive s employment agreement with UnitedHealth Care Services, Inc. or an affiliated entity (the  Employment Agreement ) for purposes of establishing documentary compliance with Section 409A of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 and its accompanying regulations ( Section 409A ), and to permit ongoing operational compliance with Section 409A. Accordingly, in exchange for the mutual promises set forth below, notwithstanding anything else to
the contrary in the Employment Agreement, Executive s Employment Agreement is amended, effective December 31, 2008, as follows:       

1.  
  Subject to paragraph 4 below, to the extent that Executive s Employment Agreement does not already provide a schedule of payment(s) for severance compensation subject to
Section 409A that is in compliance with Section 409A, then such severance compensation will be paid, minus applicable deductions, including deductions for tax withholding, in equal bi-weekly payments (other than as provided in paragraphs 3
and 4 below with respect to the first payment) on the regular payroll cycle commencing on the Starting Date (as defined below) and continuing until the end of the severance period specified in the Employment Agreement (and for these purposes, any
company option to make payment in a lump-sum shall not apply). If Executive becomes entitled to severance compensation, such payments shall be considered and are hereby designated as, a series of separate payments for purposes of Section 409A.
Further, all severance compensation payable under the Employment Agreement shall be paid by, and no further severance compensation shall be paid or payable after December 31 of the second calendar year following the year in which
Executive s Termination (as defined below) occurs. Any reimbursements provided for in Executive s Employment Agreement will be paid in accordance with the expense reimbursement policies of United HealthCare Services, Inc. and its
affiliates ( UnitedHealth Group ).         

2.  
  For purposes of payment of the severance compensation, Executive will be considered to have experienced a termination of employment as of the date that the facts and circumstances
indicate that it is reasonably anticipated that Executive will provide no further services after such date or that the level of bona fide services that Executive is expected to perform permanently decreases to no more than 20% of the average level
of bona fide services that Executive performed over the immediately preceding 36-month period. Whether Executive has had a termination of employment will be determined in a manner consistent with the definition of  separation from service 
under Section 409A. A termination of employment will mean a  separation from service  and will be referred to as a  Termination .         

3.  
    With respect to a severance compensation payment subject to Section 409A that is not already in compliance with Section 409A, commencement of severance
payments shall begin on the first payroll date that occurs in the first month that begins at least 60 days after the date of Executive s Termination (the  Starting Date ), provided that Executive has satisfied the requirement to sign
a release of claims. The first payment on the Starting Date shall include those payments that would have been previously paid if the payments of the severance compensation had begun on the first payroll date following the date of Executive s
Termination. UnitedHealth Group shall provide to Executive a form of separation agreement and release of claims no later than three (3) days  

following Executive s date of Termination. Executive must execute and deliver the separation agreement and release of claims within fifty (50) days
after Executive s date of Termination. If Executive does not timely execute and deliver to UnitedHealth Group such separation agreement and release, or if Executive does so, but then revokes it if permitted by and within the time required by
applicable law, UnitedHealth Group will have no obligation to pay severance compensation to Executive.          

4.  
  If Executive is a  specified employee  (within the meaning of Section 409A and determined pursuant to procedures adopted by UnitedHealth Group) at the time of
Executive s Termination and any amount that would be paid to Executive during the six-month period following Termination constitutes a deferral of compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A), such amount shall not be paid to
Executive until the later of (i) six months after the date of Executive s Termination, and (ii) the payment date or commencement date specified in this Agreement for such payment(s). On the first regular payroll date following the
expiration of such six-month period (or if Executive dies during the 6-month period, the first payroll date following the death), any payments that were delayed pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be paid to Executive in a single lump sum and
thereafter all payments shall be made as if there had been no such delay.         

5.  
  To the extent applicable, it is intended that the compensation arrangements under this Agreement be in full compliance with Section 409A. This Agreement shall be construed
in a manner to give effect to such intention. In no event whatsoever shall UnitedHealth Group be liable for any tax, interest or penalties that may be imposed on Executive under Section 409A. Neither UnitedHealth Group nor any of its
affiliates have any obligation to indemnify or otherwise hold Executive harmless from any or all such taxes, interest or penalties, or liability for any damages related thereto.        Except as expressly set forth in this Amendment, the Employment Agreement remains in full force and effect according to its terms.       

UNITED HEALTHCARE SERVICES, INC.  

EXECUTIVE   

By  
     
    /s/ Thomas L. Strickland   

/s/ Lori Sweere    
 
  Its  
     
  Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer  

Lori Sweere   
 
  Date  
     
  December 11, 2008  

Date  December 8, 2008   

</EX-10.33>

<EX-10.35>
 18
 dex1035.htm
 AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - ANTHONY WELTERS

Amendment to Employment Agreement - Anthony Welters 

Exhibit 10.35        AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT       This AMENDMENT AGREEMENT (the  Amendment ) modifies certain terms and
conditions of Executive s employment agreement with UnitedHealth Care Services, Inc. or an affiliated entity (the  Employment Agreement ) for purposes of establishing documentary compliance with Section 409A of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 and its accompanying regulations ( Section 409A ), and to permit ongoing operational compliance with Section 409A. Accordingly, in exchange for the mutual promises set forth below, notwithstanding anything else to
the contrary in the Employment Agreement, Executive s Employment Agreement is amended, effective December 31, 2008, as follows:       

1.  
  Subject to paragraph 4 below, to the extent that Executive s Employment Agreement does not already provide a schedule of payment(s) for severance compensation subject to
Section 409A that is in compliance with Section 409A, then such severance compensation will be paid, minus applicable deductions, including deductions for tax withholding, in equal bi-weekly payments (other than as provided in paragraphs 3
and 4 below with respect to the first payment) on the regular payroll cycle commencing on the Starting Date (as defined below) and continuing until the end of the severance period specified in the Employment Agreement (and for these purposes, any
company option to make payment in a lump-sum shall not apply). If Executive becomes entitled to severance compensation, such payments shall be considered and are hereby designated as, a series of separate payments for purposes of Section 409A.
Further, all severance compensation payable under the Employment Agreement shall be paid by, and no further severance compensation shall be paid or payable after December 31 of the second calendar year following the year in which
Executive s Termination (as defined below) occurs. Any reimbursements provided for in Executive s Employment Agreement will be paid in accordance with the expense reimbursement policies of United HealthCare Services, Inc. and its
affiliates ( UnitedHealth Group ).         

2.  
  For purposes of payment of the severance compensation, Executive will be considered to have experienced a termination of employment as of the date that the facts and circumstances
indicate that it is reasonably anticipated that Executive will provide no further services after such date or that the level of bona fide services that Executive is expected to perform permanently decreases to no more than 20% of the average level
of bona fide services that Executive performed over the immediately preceding 36-month period. Whether Executive has had a termination of employment will be determined in a manner consistent with the definition of  separation from service 
under Section 409A. A termination of employment will mean a  separation from service  and will be referred to as a  Termination .         

3.  
    With respect to a severance compensation payment subject to Section 409A that is not already in compliance with Section 409A, commencement of severance
payments shall begin on the first payroll date that occurs in the first month that begins at least 60 days after the date of Executive s Termination (the  Starting Date ), provided that Executive has satisfied the requirement to sign
a release of claims. The first payment on the Starting Date shall include those payments that would have been previously paid if the payments of the severance compensation had begun on the first payroll date following the date of Executive s
Termination. UnitedHealth Group shall provide to Executive a form of separation agreement and release of claims no later than three (3) days  

following Executive s date of Termination. Executive must execute and deliver the separation agreement and release of claims within fifty (50) days
after Executive s date of Termination. If Executive does not timely execute and deliver to UnitedHealth Group such separation agreement and release, or if Executive does so, but then revokes it if permitted by and within the time required by
applicable law, UnitedHealth Group will have no obligation to pay severance compensation to Executive.          

4.  
  If Executive is a  specified employee  (within the meaning of Section 409A and determined pursuant to procedures adopted by UnitedHealth Group) at the time of
Executive s Termination and any amount that would be paid to Executive during the six-month period following Termination constitutes a deferral of compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A), such amount shall not be paid to
Executive until the later of (i) six months after the date of Executive s Termination, and (ii) the payment date or commencement date specified in this Agreement for such payment(s). On the first regular payroll date following the
expiration of such six-month period (or if Executive dies during the 6-month period, the first payroll date following the death), any payments that were delayed pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be paid to Executive in a single lump sum and
thereafter all payments shall be made as if there had been no such delay.         

5.  
  To the extent applicable, it is intended that the compensation arrangements under this Agreement be in full compliance with Section 409A. This Agreement shall be construed
in a manner to give effect to such intention. In no event whatsoever shall UnitedHealth Group be liable for any tax, interest or penalties that may be imposed on Executive under Section 409A. Neither UnitedHealth Group nor any of its
affiliates have any obligation to indemnify or otherwise hold Executive harmless from any or all such taxes, interest or penalties, or liability for any damages related thereto.        Except as expressly set forth in this Amendment, the Employment Agreement remains in full force and effect according to its terms.       

UNITED HEALTHCARE SERVICES, INC.  

EXECUTIVE   

By  
     
    /s/ Lori Sweere   

/s/ Anthony Welters    
 
  Its  
     
  Executive Vice President, Human Capital  

Anthony Welters   
 
  Date  
     
  December 8, 2008  

Date  December 17, 2008   

</EX-10.35>

<EX-10.37>
 19
 dex1037.htm
 AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - DAVID S. WICHMANN

Amendment to Employment Agreement - David S. Wichmann 

Exhibit 10.37        AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT       This AMENDMENT AGREEMENT (the  Amendment ) modifies certain terms and
conditions of Executive s employment agreement with UnitedHealth Care Services, Inc. or an affiliated entity (the  Employment Agreement ) for purposes of establishing documentary compliance with Section 409A of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 and its accompanying regulations ( Section 409A ), and to permit ongoing operational compliance with Section 409A. Accordingly, in exchange for the mutual promises set forth below, notwithstanding anything else to
the contrary in the Employment Agreement, Executive s Employment Agreement is amended, effective December 31, 2008, as follows:       

1.  
  Subject to paragraph 4 below, to the extent that Executive s Employment Agreement does not already provide a schedule of payment(s) for severance compensation subject to
Section 409A that is in compliance with Section 409A, then such severance compensation will be paid, minus applicable deductions, including deductions for tax withholding, in equal bi-weekly payments (other than as provided in paragraphs 3
and 4 below with respect to the first payment) on the regular payroll cycle commencing on the Starting Date (as defined below) and continuing until the end of the severance period specified in the Employment Agreement (and for these purposes, any
company option to make payment in a lump-sum shall not apply). If Executive becomes entitled to severance compensation, such payments shall be considered and are hereby designated as, a series of separate payments for purposes of Section 409A.
Further, all severance compensation payable under the Employment Agreement shall be paid by, and no further severance compensation shall be paid or payable after December 31 of the second calendar year following the year in which
Executive s Termination (as defined below) occurs. Any reimbursements provided for in Executive s Employment Agreement will be paid in accordance with the expense reimbursement policies of United HealthCare Services, Inc. and its
affiliates ( UnitedHealth Group ).         

2.  
  For purposes of payment of the severance compensation, Executive will be considered to have experienced a termination of employment as of the date that the facts and circumstances
indicate that it is reasonably anticipated that Executive will provide no further services after such date or that the level of bona fide services that Executive is expected to perform permanently decreases to no more than 20% of the average level
of bona fide services that Executive performed over the immediately preceding 36-month period. Whether Executive has had a termination of employment will be determined in a manner consistent with the definition of  separation from service 
under Section 409A. A termination of employment will mean a  separation from service  and will be referred to as a  Termination .         

3.  
    With respect to a severance compensation payment subject to Section 409A that is not already in compliance with Section 409A, commencement of severance
payments shall begin on the first payroll date that occurs in the first month that begins at least 60 days after the date of Executive s Termination (the  Starting Date ), provided that Executive has satisfied the requirement to sign
a release of claims. The first payment on the Starting Date shall include those payments that would have been previously paid if the payments of the severance compensation had begun on the first payroll date following the date of Executive s
Termination. UnitedHealth Group shall provide to Executive a form of separation agreement and release of claims no later than three (3) days  

following Executive s date of Termination. Executive must execute and deliver the separation agreement and release of claims within fifty (50) days
after Executive s date of Termination. If Executive does not timely execute and deliver to UnitedHealth Group such separation agreement and release, or if Executive does so, but then revokes it if permitted by and within the time required by
applicable law, UnitedHealth Group will have no obligation to pay severance compensation to Executive.          

4.  
  If Executive is a  specified employee  (within the meaning of Section 409A and determined pursuant to procedures adopted by UnitedHealth Group) at the time of
Executive s Termination and any amount that would be paid to Executive during the six-month period following Termination constitutes a deferral of compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A), such amount shall not be paid to
Executive until the later of (i) six months after the date of Executive s Termination, and (ii) the payment date or commencement date specified in this Agreement for such payment(s). On the first regular payroll date following the
expiration of such six-month period (or if Executive dies during the 6-month period, the first payroll date following the death), any payments that were delayed pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be paid to Executive in a single lump sum and
thereafter all payments shall be made as if there had been no such delay.         

5.  
  To the extent applicable, it is intended that the compensation arrangements under this Agreement be in full compliance with Section 409A. This Agreement shall be construed
in a manner to give effect to such intention. In no event whatsoever shall UnitedHealth Group be liable for any tax, interest or penalties that may be imposed on Executive under Section 409A. Neither UnitedHealth Group nor any of its
affiliates have any obligation to indemnify or otherwise hold Executive harmless from any or all such taxes, interest or penalties, or liability for any damages related thereto.        Except as expressly set forth in this Amendment, the Employment Agreement remains in full force and effect according to its terms.       

UNITED HEALTHCARE SERVICES, INC.  

EXECUTIVE   

By  
     
    /s/ Lori Sweere   

/s/ David Wichmann    
 
  Its  
     
  Executive Vice President, Human Capital  

David Wichmann   
 
  Date  
     
  December 8, 2008  

Date  December 30, 2008   

</EX-10.37>

<EX-10.39>
 20
 dex1039.htm
 AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - GAIL K. BOUDREAUX

Amendment to Employment Agreement - Gail K. Boudreaux 

Exhibit 10.39        AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT       This AMENDMENT AGREEMENT (the  Amendment ) modifies certain terms and
conditions of Executive s employment agreement with UnitedHealth Care Services, Inc. or an affiliated entity (the  Employment Agreement ) for the purposes of establishing documentary compliance with Section 409A of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 and its accompanying regulations ( Section 409A ), and to permit ongoing operational compliance with Section 409A. Accordingly, in exchange for the mutual promises set forth below, notwithstanding anything else to
the contrary in the Employment Agreement, Executive s Employment Agreement is amended, effective December 31, 2008, as follows:       

1.  
  If Executive becomes entitled to severance compensation, such payments shall be considered and are hereby designated as a series of separate payments for purpose of
Section 409A.         

2.  
  For purposes of payment of the severance compensation, Executive will be considered to have experienced a termination of employment as of the date that the facts and circumstances
indicated that it is reasonably anticipated that the Executive will provide no further services after such date or that the level of bona fide services that Executive is expected to perform permanently decreases to no more than 20% of the average
level of bona fide services that Executive performed over the immediately preceding 36-month period. Whether Executive has had a termination of employment will be determined in a manner consistent with the definition of  separation from
service  under Section 409A. A termination of employment will mean a  separation from service  and will be referred to as a  Termination.         Except as expressly set forth in this Amendment, the Employment Agreement remains in full force and effect according to its terms.       

UNITED HEALTHCARE SERVICES, INC.  

EXECUTIVE   

By  
     
    /s/ Thomas L. Strickland   

/s/ Gail Boudreaux    

Gail Boudreaux   
 
  Its  
     
  Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer  

Date  
     
  December 22, 2008  

Date December 22, 2008   

</EX-10.39>

<EX-10.40>
 21
 dex1040.htm
 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - LARRY C. RENFRO

Employment Agreement - Larry C. Renfro 

Exhibit 10.40        EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT       This Agreement is between Larry Renfro ( Executive ) and United
HealthCare Services, Inc. ( UnitedHealth Group ), and is effective as of Executive s first day of employment with UnitedHealth Group (the  Effective Date ). This Agreement s purposes are to set forth certain terms of
Executive s employment by UnitedHealth Group or one of its affiliates and to protect UnitedHealth Group s knowledge, expertise, customer relationships, and confidential information. Unless the context otherwise requires,  UnitedHealth
Group  includes all its affiliated entities.       

1.  
   Employment and Duties .         

A.  
   Employment . UnitedHealth Group hereby employs Executive, and Executive accepts employment, under this Agreement s terms.         

B.  
   Title and Duties . Executive will be employed as the Executive Vice President for UnitedHealth Group and CEO of Ovations and will report to the President and Chief Executive
Officer of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated. Executive will perform such duties, and exercise such supervision and control as are commonly associated with Executive s position, as well as perform such other duties as are reasonably assigned to
Executive. Executive will devote substantially all of Executive s business time and energy to Executive s duties. Executive will maintain operations in Executive s area of responsibility, and make every reasonable effort to ensure
that the employees within that area of responsibility act, in compliance with applicable law and UnitedHealth Group s Principles of Integrity and Compliance. Executive is subject to all of UnitedHealth Group s employment policies and
procedures (except as specifically superseded by this Agreement).         

2.  
   Compensation and Benefits .         

A.  
   Base Salary . Executive s initial annual base salary will be $600,000, payable according to UnitedHealth Group s regular payroll schedule. Periodic adjustments to
Executive s base salary may be made in UnitedHealth Group s sole discretion.         

B.  
   Incentive Compensation . Executive will be eligible to participate in UnitedHealth Group s incentive compensation plans in UnitedHealth Group s discretion and in
accordance with the plans  terms and conditions. Executive s initial target bonus potential under UnitedHealth Group s Executive Incentive Plan for the annual cash incentive will be 100% of annual base salary and for the long-term
cash incentive will be 50% of annual base salary, subject to periodic adjustments in UnitedHealth Group s discretion.     

C.  
   Equity Awards.  Executive will be eligible for stock-based awards in UnitedHealth Group s discretion. In accordance with guideline amounts authorized by UnitedHealth
Group s Compensation and Human Resources Committee, management will recommend that, in connection with the commencement of employment, Executive be awarded equity compensation in the form of (i) restricted stock units with a value of
$3,000,000 and (ii) Stock-Settled Appreciation Rights (SARs) with a Black-Scholes value of $1,500,000. Subject to the terms of the applicable equity award certificate and the Company s Stock Incentive Plan, as amended, the Restricted Stock
Units and SARs shall vest 25% on each of the first through fourth anniversaries of the grant date.        UnitedHealth Group s
governance policy stipulates that its Compensation and Human Resources Committee can only grant equity awards at regularly scheduled quarterly committee meetings. Accordingly, Executive s recommended grant will be reviewed by the Committee at
its next regularly scheduled quarterly meeting following the Effective Date. The Black-Scholes value of SAR awards will be calculated within a period of approximately ten days prior to day of the Committee meeting using the closing price of
UnitedHealth Group stock on that day that the calculation is made and an assumed life of 10 years, consistent with the term of the SAR award agreement. The actual grant price of SAR awards will be the closing price of UnitedHealth Group stock on the
day of the Committee meeting. The number of shares comprising the recommended restricted stock grant will be calculated within a period of approximately ten days prior to the day of the Committee meeting using the closing price of UnitedHealth Group
stock on the day that the calculation is made, and will be calculated by dividing $3,000,000 by that closing price.       

D.  
   Employee Benefits . Executive will be eligible to participate in UnitedHealth Group s employee welfare, retirement, and other benefit plans on the same basis as other
similarly situated executives, in accordance with the terms of the plans. Executive will be eligible for Paid Time Off in accordance with UnitedHealth Group s policies. UnitedHealth Group reserves the right to amend or discontinue any plan or
policy at any time in its sole discretion.         

E.  
   Sign-On Bonus . UnitedHealth Group agrees to pay Executive a sign-on bonus of $600,000, less withholdings and deductions. This sign-on bonus will be paid to Executive on the
first pay date following the one month anniversary of the Effective Date.         

3.  
   Term and Termination .         

A.  
   Term . This Agreement s term is from the Effective Date until this Agreement is terminated under Section 3.B.           
   -2-   

B.  
   Termination .         

i.  
   By Mutual Agreement . The parties may terminate Executive s employment and this Agreement at any time by mutual agreement.         

ii.  
   By UnitedHealth Group without Cause . UnitedHealth Group may terminate this Agreement and Executive s employment without Cause upon 90 days  prior written notice.

iii.  
   By UnitedHealth Group with Cause . UnitedHealth Group may terminate this Agreement and Executive s employment at any time for Cause.  Cause  means
Executive s (a) material failure to follow UnitedHealth Group s reasonable direction or to perform any duties reasonably required on material matters, (b) material violation of, or failure to act upon or report known or suspected
violations of, UnitedHealth Group s Principles of Integrity and Compliance, (c) conviction of any felony, (d) commission of any criminal, fraudulent, or dishonest act in connection with Executive s employment, (e) material
breach of this Agreement, or (f) conduct that is materially detrimental to UnitedHealth Group s interests. UnitedHealth Group will, within 120 days of discovery of the conduct, give Executive written notice specifying the conduct
constituting Cause in reasonable detail and Executive will have 60 days to remedy such conduct, if such conduct is reasonably capable of being remedied. In any instance where the Company may have grounds for Cause, failure by the Company to provide
written notice of the grounds for Cause within 120 days of discovery shall be a waiver of its right to assert the subject conduct as a basis for termination for Cause.         

iv.  
   By Executive without Good Reason . Executive may terminate this Agreement and Executive s employment at any time for any reason, including due to Executive s
retirement. Termination without Good Reason will not be a basis for Severance Benefits.         

v.  
     By Executive for Good Reason . Executive may terminate this Agreement and Executive s employment for Good Reason, as defined below. Executive must give
UnitedHealth Group written notice specifying in reasonable detail the circumstances constituting Good Reason, within 120 days of becoming aware of such circumstances, or such circumstances will not constitute Good Reason. If the circumstances
constituting Good Reason are reasonably capable of being remedied, UnitedHealth Group will have 60 days to remedy such circumstances.  Good Reason  will exist if, without Executive s consent, UnitedHealth Group: (a) reduces

-3-   

Executive s base salary or target bonus percentage other than in connection with a general reduction affecting a group of employees; (b) moves
Executive s primary work location more than 50 miles; or (c) makes changes that substantially diminish Executive s duties or responsibilities or (d) changes the Executive s reporting relationship away from the President and
Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group.          

vi.  
   Due to Executive s Death or Disability.  This Agreement and Executive s employment will terminate automatically if Executive dies. The termination date will be the
date of Executive s death. UnitedHealth Group may terminate this Agreement and Executive s employment due to Executive s disability that renders Executive incapable of performing the essential functions of Executive s job, with
or without reasonable accommodation. Executive will not be entitled to Severance Benefits under Section 4 in the event of termination due to Executive s death or disability.         

4.  
   Severance Benefits .         

A.  
   Circumstances under Which Severance Benefits Payable . Executive will be entitled to Severance Benefits only if Executive s employment is terminated by UnitedHealth Group
without Cause or if Executive terminates employment for Good Reason. Executive will be considered to have experienced a termination of employment as of the date that the facts and circumstances indicate that it is reasonably anticipated that
Executive will provide no further services after such date or that the level of bona fide services that Executive is expected to perform permanently decreases to no more than 20% of the average level of bona fide services that Executive performed
over the immediately preceding 36-month period. Whether Executive has had a termination of employment will be determined in a manner consistent with the definition of  separation from service  under Section 409A of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 and its accompanying regulations ( Section 409A). A termination of employment will mean a  separation from service  and will be referred to herein as a  Termination . The Severance Benefits in this
Agreement are in lieu of any payments or benefits to which Executive otherwise might be entitled under any UnitedHealth Group severance plan or program.         

B.  
   Severance Benefits . Subject to Section 4.D, Executive shall be entitled to the following Severance Benefits if Executive s employment terminates under the
circumstances described in Section 4.A above:        (1) Two times Executive s annualized base salary as of
Executive s termination date.         
   -4-   

(2) Two times the average of the total of any bonus or incentive compensation paid or payable to
Executive for the two most recent calendar years (excluding equity-related awards, payments under any long-term or similar benefit plan, or any other special or one-time bonus or incentive compensation payments); provided, however, that if
termination occurs within two years following the Effective Date, the amount payable under this paragraph will be two times Executive s target incentive.      (3)  $ 12,000 lump sum payment to offset costs of COBRA which amount will be paid within 60 days following Termination.      (4) Outplacement services consistent with those provided to similarly situated executives provided by an outplacement firm selected by UnitedHealth Group.       

C.  
   Timing of Payments . The Severance Benefits in Sections 4.B.(1)-(2) will be paid out, minus applicable deductions, including deductions for tax withholding, in equal
bi-weekly payments on the regular payroll cycle over the 12-month period following Executive s Termination. Commencement of payments shall begin on the first payroll date that occurs in the month that begins 60 days after the date of
Executive s Termination (the  Starting Date ), provided that Executive has satisfied the requirement in Section 4.D. The first payment on the Starting Date shall include those payments that would have been previously paid if the
payments of the severance compensation had begun on the first payroll date following the date of Executive s Termination. Executive s entitlement to the payments of the severance compensation described in Section 4.B shall be treated
as the entitlement to a series of separate payments for purposes of Section 409A. If Executive is a  specified employee  (within the meaning of Section 409A and determined pursuant to procedures adopted by UnitedHealth Group) at
the time of Executive s Termination and any amount that would be paid to Executive during the six-month period following Termination constitutes deferred compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A), such amount shall not be paid to
Executive until the later of (i) six months after the date of Executive s Separation from Service, and (ii) the payment date or commencement date specified in this Agreement for such payment(s). On the first regular payroll date
following the expiration of such six-month period (or if Executive dies during the 6-month period, the first payroll date following the death), all payments that were delayed pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be paid to Executive in a single
lump sum and thereafter all payments shall be made as if there had been no such delay. All Severance Benefits described in Section 4.B shall be paid by, and no further severance compensation shall be paid or payable after December 31 of
the second calendar year in which Executive s Termination occurs.         

D.  
     Separation Agreement and Release Required . In order to receive any Severance Benefits under this Agreement, Executive must timely sign a separation agreement
and release of claims in a form determined by UnitedHealth Group in its discretion.  
          
   -5-   

UnitedHealth Group shall provide to Executive a form of separation agreement and release of claims no later than three (3) days following
Executive s date of Termination. Executive must execute and deliver the separation agreement and release of claims within fifty (50) days after Executive s date of Termination. If Executive does not timely execute and deliver to
UnitedHealth Group such severance agreement and release, or if Executive does so, but then revokes it if permitted by and within the time required by applicable law, UnitedHealth Group will have no obligation to pay severance compensation to
Executive.          

5.  
   Property Rights, Confidentiality, Non-Disparagement, and Restrictive Covenants .         

A.  
   UnitedHealth Group s Property .         

i.  
   Assignment of Property Rights . Executive must promptly disclose in writing to UnitedHealth Group all inventions, discoveries, processes, procedures, methods and works of
authorship, whether or not patentable or copyrightable, that Executive alone or jointly conceives, makes, discovers, writes or creates, during working hours or on Executive s own time, during this Agreement s term (the  Works ).
Executive hereby assigns to UnitedHealth Group all Executive s rights, including copyrights and patent rights, to all Works. Executive must assist UnitedHealth Group as it reasonably requires to perfect, protect, and use its rights to the
Works. This provision does not apply to any Work for which no UnitedHealth Group equipment, supplies, facility or trade secret information was used and: (1) which does not relate directly to UnitedHealth Group s business or actual or
demonstrably anticipated research or development, or (2) which does not result from any work performed for UnitedHealth Group.         

ii.  
   No Removal of Property . Executive may not remove from UnitedHealth Group s premises any UnitedHealth Group records, documents, data or other property, in either original
or duplicate form, except as necessary in the ordinary course of UnitedHealth Group s business.         

iii.  
   Return of Property . Executive must immediately deliver to UnitedHealth Group, upon termination of employment, or at any other time at UnitedHealth Group s request, all
UnitedHealth Group property, including records, documents, data, and equipment, and all copies of any such property, including any records or data Executive prepared during employment.         

B.  
     Confidential Information . Executive will be given access to and provided with sensitive, confidential, proprietary and trade secret information
( Confidential Information ) in the course of Executive s employment. Examples of Confidential Information include: inventions; new product or marketing plans; business strategies and plans; merger and acquisition targets; financial
and pricing  
          
   -6-   

information; computer programs, source codes, models and databases; analytical models; customer lists and information; and supplier and vendor lists and
information. Executive agrees not to disclose or use Confidential Information, either during or after Executive s employment with UnitedHealth Group, except as necessary to perform Executive s UnitedHealth Group duties or as UnitedHealth
Group may consent in writing. This Agreement does not restrict use or disclosure of publicly available information or information: (i) that Executive obtained from a source other than UnitedHealth Group before becoming employed by UnitedHealth
Group; or (ii) that Executive received from a source outside UnitedHealth Group without an obligation of confidentiality.          

C.  
   Non-Disparagement . Executive agrees not to criticize, make any negative comments or otherwise disparage UnitedHealth Group or those associated with it, whether orally, in
writing or otherwise, directly or by implication, to any person or entity, including UnitedHealth Group customers and agents.         

D.  
   Restrictive Covenants . Executive agrees to the restrictive covenants in this Section in consideration of Executive s employment and UnitedHealth Group s promises in
this Agreement, including providing Executive access to Confidential Information. The restrictive covenants in this Section apply during Executive s employment and for 24 months following termination of employment for any reason. Executive
agrees that he will not, without UnitedHealth Group s prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for Executive or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder,
or in any other individual or representative capacity:         

i.  
   Customer Solicitation : Executive will not solicit any business competitive with UnitedHealth Group from any person or entity who (a) was a UnitedHealth Group provider or
customer within the 12 months before Executive s employment termination and with whom Executive had contact to further UnitedHealth Group s business, or for whom Executive provided services or supervised employees who provided those
services, or (b) was a prospective provider or customer UnitedHealth Group solicited within the 12 months before Executive s employment termination and with whom UnitedHealth Group had contact for the purposes of soliciting the person or
entity to become a provider or customer of UnitedHealth Group, or supervised employees who had those contacts.         

ii.  
   Employee Solicitation : Executive will not hire, employ, recruit or solicit any UnitedHealth Group employee or consultant.         

iii.  
   Interference : Executive will not induce or influence any UnitedHealth Group employee, consultant, or provider to terminate his, her or its employment or other relationship
with UnitedHealth Group.           
   -7-   

iv.  
   Competitive Activities : Executive will not engage in or participate in any activity that competes, directly or indirectly, with any UnitedHealth Group product or service that
Executive engaged in, participated in, or had Confidential Information about during Executive s employment; provided, however, that this Section 5.D.iv. will not prevent Executive from being employed by, or working as a consultant to, or
serving on the board of, or being an owner or an investor in, a private equity firm.         

v.  
   Assisting Others . Executive will not assist anyone in any of the activities listed above.        Because UnitedHealth Group s business competes on a nationwide basis, Executive s obligations under this Section 5.D shall
apply on a nationwide basis anywhere in the United States. To the extent Executive and UnitedHealth Group agree at any time to enter into separate agreements containing restrictive covenants with different or inconsistent terms than those contained
herein, Executive and UnitedHealth Group acknowledge and agree that such different or inconsistent terms shall not in any way affect or have relevance to the Restrictive Covenants contained in this Section 5.D. Executive agrees that the
Restrictive Covenants in this Section 5.D are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company.       

E.  
   Cooperation and Indemnification . Executive agrees that Executive will cooperate (i) with UnitedHealth Group in the defense of any legal claim involving any matter that
arose during Executive s employment with UnitedHealth Group, and (ii) with all government authorities on matters pertaining to any investigation, litigation or administrative proceeding concerning UnitedHealth Group. UnitedHealth Group
will reimburse Executive for any reasonable travel and out-of-pocket expenses incurred by Executive in providing such cooperation. UnitedHealth Group will indemnify Executive, in accordance with the Minnesota Business Corporation Act, for all claims
and other covered matters arising in connection with Executive s employment.         

F.  
   Injunctive Relief . Executive agrees that (a) legal remedies (money damages) for any breach of Section 5 will be inadequate, (b) UnitedHealth Group will suffer
immediate and irreparable harm from any such breach, and (c) UnitedHealth Group will be entitled to injunctive relief from a court in addition to any legal remedies UnitedHealth Group may seek in arbitration. If an arbitrator or court
determines that Executive has breached any provision of Section 5, Executive agrees to pay to UnitedHealth Group its reasonable costs and attorney s fees incurred in enforcing that provision.         

G.  
   Survival . This Section 5 will survive this Agreement s termination.           
   -8-   

6.  
   Miscellaneous .         

A.  
   Tax Withholding . All compensation payable under this Agreement will be subject to applicable tax withholding and other required or authorized deductions.

B.  
   Assignment . Executive may not assign this Agreement. UnitedHealth Group may assign this Agreement. Any successor to UnitedHealth Group will be deemed to be UnitedHealth Group
under this Agreement.         

C.  
   Entire Agreement, Amendment . This Agreement contains the parties  entire agreement regarding its subject matter and may only be amended in a writing signed by the
parties. This Agreement supersedes any and all prior oral or written employment agreements (including letters and memoranda) between Executive and UnitedHealth Group or its predecessors. This Agreement does not supersede any stock option, restricted
stock, or stock appreciation rights plan or award certificate.         

D.  
   Choice of Law . Minnesota law governs this Agreement.         

E.  
   Waivers . No party s failure to exercise, or delay in exercising, any right or remedy under this Agreement will be a waiver of such right or remedy, nor will any single
or partial exercise of any right or remedy preclude any other or further exercise of such right or remedy.         

E.  
   Narrowed Enforcement and Severability . If a court or arbitrator decides that any provision of this Agreement is invalid or overbroad, the parties agree that the court or
arbitrator should narrow such provision so that it is enforceable or, if narrowing is not possible or permissible, such provision should be considered severed and the other provisions of this Agreement should be unaffected.     

F.  
   Dispute Resolution and Remedies . Except for injunctive relief under Section 5.F, any dispute between the parties relating to this Agreement or to Executive s
employment will be resolved by binding arbitration under UnitedHealth Group s Employment Arbitration Policy, as it may be amended from time to time. The arbitrator(s) may not vary this Agreement s terms and must apply applicable law.

G.  
   Section 409A.  To the extent applicable, it is intended that the compensation arrangements under this Agreement be in full compliance with Section 409A. This
Agreement shall be construed in a manner to give effect to such intention. In no event whatsoever shall UnitedHealth Group or any of its affiliates be liable for any tax, interest or penalties that may be imposed on Executive under Section
409A. Neither UnitedHealth Group nor any of its affiliates have any obligation to indemnify or otherwise hold Executive harmless from any or all such taxes, interest or penalties, or liability for any damages related thereto.
          
   -9-   

United HealthCare Services, Inc.  

Executive   

By  
     
    /s/ Lori Sweere   

/s/ Larry C. Renfro    
 
  Its  
     
  Executive Vice President, Human Capital  

Date  
     
  January 20, 2009  

Date  January 20, 2009   
       
   -10-   

</EX-10.40>

<EX-12.1>
 22
 dex121.htm
 RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

Exhibit 12.1        Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges        Dollars in millions        
    The ratio of earnings to fixed charges is computed by dividing total earnings available for fixed charges by the
fixed charges. For purposes of computing this ratio, fixed charges consist of interest expense including amounts capitalized plus the interest factor in rental expense.   

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 23
 dex211.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY

Subsidiaries of the Company 

Exhibit 21.1        Subsidiaries of the Company        

Name of Subsidiary    
      
   Incorporated or Organized   
      
     Direct Parent Company of the Subsidiary    
      
     Additional Names under which the       Subsidiary is Doing Business     
 
    ACN Group IPA of New York, Inc.   
      
  NY  
      
    ACN Group, Inc.   

ACN Group of California, Inc.   
      
  CA  
      
    ACN Group, Inc.   
      
  OptumHealth Physical Health of California   
 
    ACN Group, Inc.   
      
  MN  
      
    United HealthCare Services, Inc.   
      
  OptumHealth Care Solutions   
 
    Administration Resources Corporation   
      
  MN  
      
    OptumHealth Financial Services, Inc.   

All Savers Insurance Company   
      
  IN  
      
    Golden Rule Financial Corporation   

All Savers Life Insurance Company of California   
      
  CA  
      
    Golden Rule Financial Corporation   

American Medical Security Life Insurance Company   
      
  WI  
      
    Golden Rule Financial Corporation   

AmeriChoice Corporation   
      
  DE  
      
    UnitedHealth Group Incorporated   

AmeriChoice Health Services, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    AmeriChoice Corporation   

AmeriChoice of Connecticut, Inc.   
      
  CT  
      
    AmeriChoice Corporation   

AmeriChoice of Georgia, Inc.   
      
  GA  
      
    AmeriChoice Corporation   

AmeriChoice of New Jersey, Inc.   
      
  NJ  
      
    AmeriChoice Corporation   

AmeriChoice of Pennsylvania, Inc.   
      
  PA  
      
    AmeriChoice Corporation   

Aperture Credentialing, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    Ingenix, Inc.   

Arizona Physicians IPA, Inc.   
      
  AZ  
      
    UnitedHealthcare of Arizona, Inc.   

Arnett Health Plans, Inc.   
      
  IN  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   
      
  Arnett Managed HealthPlans   
 
    Arnett HMO, Inc.   
      
  IN  
      
    Arnett Health Plans, Inc.   

Arnett Practice Association, LLC   
      
  IN  
      
    Arnett Health Plans, Inc.   

Behavioral Health Administrators   
      
  CA  
      
    United Behavioral Health   
      
  Behavioral Health Administrators, Inc.   
 
    Behavioral Healthcare Options, Inc.   
      
  NV  
      
    Sierra Health Services, Inc.   

BP Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    UMR Holdings, Inc.   
      
    BP Services     BP Services, Inc.     Bp Services, Inc.     BP Services of Minnesota     BP Insurance Services, Inc.     BP of Minnesota Insurance Services     BPI, Inc.     BPI Services     BPI Services, Inc.     BP Inc. of Delaware    
 
    CareTracker Technologies, Inc.   
      
  MA  
      
    RSB Holdings, Inc.   

CII Financial, Inc.   
      
  CA  
      
    Sierra Health Services, Inc.   

ClinPharm International Limited   
      
  UK  
      
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.   

Commonwealth Administrators, LLC   
      
  KY  
      
    UMR, Inc.   

DBP Services of New York IPA, Inc.   
      
  NY  
      
    Dental Benefit Providers, Inc.   

DCG Resource Options, LLC   
      
  ME  
      
    National Benefit Resources, Inc.   
      
  Workup, LLC   
 
    Definity Health Corporation   
      
  DE  
      
    Uniprise, Inc.   

Dental Benefit Providers of California, Inc.   
      
  CA  
      
    Dental Benefit Providers, Inc.   

Dental Benefit Providers of Illinois, Inc.   
      
  IL  
      
    Dental Benefit Providers, Inc.   

Dental Benefit Providers, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    United HealthCare Services, Inc.   
      
    DBP Services     DBP Services Inc.    
 
    Disability Consulting Group, LLC   
      
  ME  
      
    National Benefit Resources, Inc.   

Distance Learning Network, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    National Benefit Resources, Inc.   
      
    i3CME     OptumHealth Education    
 
    Duncan Printing Services, LLC   
      
  SC  
      
    United HealthCare Insurance Company   

E.C. Investigaciones del Sur S.A.   
      
  Costa Rica  
      
    Ingenix International (Netherlands) B.V.   

Electronic Network Systems, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    Ingenix, Inc.   

Envision Care Alliance Inc.   
      
  IL  
      
    OptumHealth, Inc.   

European Health Economics (UK) Ltd.   
      
  UK  
      
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services (UK) Limited   

Evercare Collaborative Solutions, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    Ovations, Inc.   

Evercare Hospice, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    Ovations, Inc.   
      
    Evercare Hospice     Evercare Hospice and Palliative Care
     Evercare Hospice and Palliative Care of Colorado Springs     Evercare Hospice and Palliative Care of Denver     Evercare Palliative Care     Evercare Palliative Services     Evercare Palliative Services of Atlanta     Evercare Palliative Services of Cincinnati     Evercare Palliative Services of
Colorado Springs     Evercare Palliative Services of Cleveland     Evercare Palliative Services Denver     Evercare Palliative Services of Dover     Evercare Palliative Services of Eugene     Evercare Palliative Services of Houston     Evercare Palliative Services of Phoenix     Evercare Palliative Services of
Portland     Evercare Palliative Services of Salem     Evercare
Palliative Services of Tucson     Evercare Palliative Services of Vienna    

Name of Subsidiary    
      
   Incorporated or Organized   
      
     Direct Parent Company of the Subsidiary    
      
     Additional Names under which the       Subsidiary is Doing Business     
 
    Evercare of Arizona, Inc.   
      
  AZ  
      
    Ovations, Inc.   

Evercare of New Mexico, Inc.   
      
  NM  
      
    United HealthCare Insurance Company   

EverCare of New York, IPA, Inc.   
      
  NY  
      
    Ovations, Inc.   

Evercare of Texas, L.L.C.   
      
  TX  
      
    Ovations, Inc.   
      
  United Healthcare - Texas   
 
    Family Health Care Services   
      
  NV  
      
    Sierra Health Services, Inc.   

Family Home Hospice, Inc.   
      
  NV  
      
    Sierra Health Services, Inc.   
      
  COU, Inc.   
 
    FHP Reinsurance Limited   
      
  Bermuda  
      
    PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.   

Global Works Systems, Inc.   
      
  CA  
      
    Ingenix, Inc.   

Golden Rule Financial Corporation   
      
  DE  
      
    UnitedHealth Group Incorporated   

Golden Rule Insurance Company   
      
  IN  
      
    Golden Rule Financial Corporation   

Great Lakes Health Plan, Inc.   
      
  MI  
      
    AmeriChoice Corporation   

H   W Indemnity, Ltd.   
      
  Caymans  
      
    UnitedHealth Group Incorporated   

Harrington Health Services, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    UMR Holdings, Inc.   

Health Plan of Nevada, Inc.   
      
  NV  
      
    Sierra Health Services, Inc.   

HealthAllies, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    OptumHealth, Inc.   
      
    OptumHealth Allies     UnitedHealth
Allies    
 
    Healthia Consulting, Inc.   
      
  MN  
      
    Ingenix, Inc.   

Healthia Exchange LLC   
      
  MN  
      
    Healthia Consulting, Inc.   

HomeCall Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.   
      
  MD  
      
    Mid Atlantic Medical Services, LLC   

Hygeia Corporation   
      
  DE  
      
    UnitedHealth International, Inc.   

Hygeia Corporation (Ontario)   
      
  Ontario  
      
    Hygeia Travel Health Holdings Company   

Hygeia Travel Health Holdings Company   
      
  Nova Scotia  
      
    Hygeia Corporation   

i Tres Latin America Costa Rica S.A.   
      
  Costa Rica  
      
    Ingenix International (Netherlands) B.V.   

i3 Asia Pacific (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore  
      
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.   

i3 Bulgaria EOOD   
      
  Bulgaria  
      
    Ingenix International (Netherlands) B.V.   

i3 Canada, Inc.   
      
  Canada  
      
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.   
      
    i3 Innovus     i3 Pharma Resourcing     i3 Renouvellement de personnel pharmaceutique     i3 Research     i3 Statprobe     Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services    
 
    i3 Japan, LLC   
      
  Japan  
      
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.   

i3 Latin America Argentina S.A.   
      
  Argentina  
      
    Ingenix International (Netherlands) B.V.   

i3 Latin America Brasil Servi os de Pesquisa Cl nica Ltda.   
      
  Brazil  
      
    E.C. Investigaciones del Sur S.A.   

i3 Latin America Chile S.A.   
      
  Chile  
      
    E.C. Investigaciones del Sur S.A.   

i3 Latin America Per  S.A.   
      
  Peru  
      
    Ingenix International (Netherlands) B.V.   

i3 Latin Am rica Uruguay S.R.L.   
      
  Uruguay  
      
    Ingenix International (Netherlands) B.V.   

i3 LLC   
      
  Russia  
      
    Ingenix International (Netherlands) B.V.   

i3 Poland sp z.o.o.   
      
  Poland  
      
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.   

i3 Research d.o.o. Beograd   
      
  Serbia  
      
    Ingenix International (Netherlands) B.V.   

i3 Research India Private Limited   
      
  India  
      
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.   

i3 Research Limited   
      
  UK  
      
    Ingenix, Inc.   

IBA Health and Life Assurance Company   
      
  MI  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   

Information Network Corporation   
      
  AZ  
      
    AmeriChoice Corporation   

Ingenix Canadian Partnership   
      
  Ontario  
      
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.   

Ingenix International (Czech Republic) s.r.o.   
      
  Czech  
      
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.   
      
  i3 Research   
 
    Ingenix International (Finland) Oy   
      
  Finland  
      
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.   
      
  i3 Research   
 
    Ingenix International (Hong Kong) Limited   
      
  Hong Kong  
      
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.   

Ingenix International (Italy) S.r.l.   
      
  Italy  
      
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services (UK) Limited   

Ingenix International (Netherlands) B.V.   
      
  Netherlands  
      
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.   
      
    i3 Research     i3 Pharma Resourcing    
 
    Ingenix International Hungary Ltd.   
      
  Hungary  
      
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.   
      
  i3 Research   
 
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services (Australia) Pty Limited   
      
  Australia  
      
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services (UK) Limited   
      
    i3 Research     i3 Pharma Resourcing    
 
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services (Deutschland) GmbH   
      
  Germany  
      
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.   
      
  i3 Research   
 
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services (France) SARL   
      
  France  
      
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services (UK) Limited   
      
  i3 Research   
 
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services (RSA) Proprietary Limited   
      
  So. Africa  
      
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.   

Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services (Spain) S.L.   
      
  Spain  
      
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services (UK) Limited   
      
  i3 Research   
 
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services (Sweden) AB   
      
  Sweden  
      
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.   
      
  i3 Research   
 
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services (UK) Limited   
      
  UK  
      
    ClinPharm International Limited   

Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services d.o.o.   
      
  Croatia  
      
    Ingenix International (Netherlands) B.V.   

Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services de Argentina S.R.L.   
      
  Argentina  
      
    Ingenix International (Netherlands) B.V.   
      
  i3 Research   
 
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services Mexico S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico  
      
    Ingenix International (Netherlands) B.V.   

2   

Name of Subsidiary    
      
   Incorporated or Organized   
      
     Direct Parent Company of the Subsidiary    
      
     Additional Names under which the       Subsidiary is Doing Business     
 
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    Ingenix, Inc.   
      
    i3 Innovus     i3 Drug Safety     i3 Magnifi     i3 Research    
 
    Ingenix Public Sector Solutions, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    Ingenix, Inc.   

Ingenix, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    UnitedHealth Group Incorporated   
      
    Reden   Anders     Reden   Anders, Ltd.  
  UnitedHealth Group Ingenix, Inc.    
 
    Innovative Cost Solutions, LLC   
      
  IL  
      
    J.W. Hutton, Inc.   

Innoviant Pharmacy, Inc.   
      
  PA  
      
    UMR Holdings, Inc.   
      
    IPI Pharmaceuticals     IPI
PHARMACEUTICALS    
 
    Innoviant, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    UMR Holdings, Inc.   

Innovus Research (U.K.) Limited   
      
  UK  
      
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services (UK) Limited   

Integris Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    Ingenix, Inc.   
      
    Ingenix, Inc.     Ingenix Business Intelligence
Group     Bull Services    
 
    J.W. Hutton, Inc.   
      
  IA  
      
    Ingenix, Inc.   

LighthouseMD, Inc.   
      
  RI  
      
    RSB Holdings, Inc.   

MAMSI Insurance Resources, LLC   
      
  MD  
      
    OneNet PPO, LLC   

MAMSI Life and Health Insurance Company   
      
  MD  
      
    Mid Atlantic Medical Services, LLC   
      
    MAMSI Life and Health     MLH    
 
    Managed Physical Network, Inc.   
      
  NY  
      
    ACN Group, Inc.   

MD-Individual Practice Association, Inc.   
      
  MD  
      
    Mid Atlantic Medical Services, LLC   
      
    M.D. IPA     M.D. IPA HEALTH     M.D. IPA PREFERRED     M.D. IPA, The Quality Care Health
Plan    
 
    Medical Network, Inc.   
      
  NJ  
      
    OptumHealth, Inc.   
      
  HealthAtoZ.com   
 
    Mid Atlantic Medical Services, LLC   
      
  DE  
      
    UnitedHealth Group Incorporated   

Midwest Security Administrators, Inc.   
      
  WI  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   

Midwest Security Care, Inc.   
      
  WI  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   

Midwest Security Life Insurance Company   
      
  WI  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   

MLH Life Trust   
      
  MD  
      
    Mid Atlantic Medical Services, LLC   

Mohave Valley Hospital, Inc.   
      
  AZ  
      
    Southwest Medical Associates, Inc.   

National Benefit Resources, Inc.   
      
  MN  
      
    OptumHealth, Inc.   
      
    Managed Care Solutions     NBR Insurance Services  
  Stop Loss International Corporation    
 
    National Pacific Dental, Inc.   
      
  TX  
      
    PacificDental Benefits, Inc.   

Neighborhood Health Partnership, Inc.   
      
  FL  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   
      
    Neighborhood Health     Neighborhood Health
Partnership     NHP    
 
    Nevada Pacific Dental   
      
  NV  
      
    PacificDental Benefits, Inc.   

Northern Nevada Health Network, Inc.   
      
  NV  
      
    Sierra Health Services, Inc.   

NPD Dental Services, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    PacificDental Benefits, Inc.   

NPD Insurance Company, Inc.   
      
  NV  
      
    NPD Dental Services, Inc.   

Omega Insurance Advisors Private Limited   
      
  India  
      
    UnitedHealthcare India (Private) Limited   

OneNet PPO, LLC   
      
  MD  
      
    United HealthCare Insurance Company   

Optimum Choice, Inc.   
      
  MD  
      
    Mid Atlantic Medical Services, LLC   
      
    OCI     OCI HEALTH PLAN     OCI PREFERRED     OPTIMUM CHOICE     OPTIMUM CHOICE HEALTH PLAN     OPTIMUM CHOICE PREFERRED     Optimum Choice Advantage    
 
    OptumHealth Bank, Inc.   
      
  UT  
      
    OptumHealth Financial Services, Inc.   
      
  Exante Bank   
 
    OptumHealth Financial Services, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    United HealthCare Services, Inc.   

OptumHealth, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    United HealthCare Services, Inc.   

Ovations, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    United HealthCare Services, Inc.   

Oxford Benefit Management, Inc.   
      
  CT  
      
    Oxford Heath Plans LLC   

Oxford Health Insurance, Inc.   
      
  NY  
      
    Oxford Health Plans (NY), Inc.   

Oxford Health Plans (CT), Inc.   
      
  CT  
      
    Oxford Heath Plans LLC   

Oxford Health Plans (NJ), Inc.   
      
  NJ  
      
    Oxford Heath Plans LLC   

Oxford Health Plans (NY), Inc.   
      
  NY  
      
    Oxford Heath Plans LLC   

Oxford Heath Plans LLC   
      
  DE  
      
    UnitedHealth Group Incorporated   
      
  The Oxford Agency   
 
    PacifiCare Behavioral Health of California, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    PacifiCare Behavioral Health, Inc.   
      
  Life Strategies of California   
 
    PacifiCare Behavioral Health, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    PacifiCare Health Systems, LLC.   
      
    Life Strategies     PacifiCare Behavioral Health
Administrators     PBH    
 
    PacifiCare Dental of Colorado, Inc.   
      
  CO  
      
    PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.   

3   

Name of Subsidiary    
      
   Incorporated or Organized   
      
     Direct Parent Company of the Subsidiary    
      
     Additional Names under which the       Subsidiary is Doing Business     
 
    PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.   
      
  IN  
      
    PacifiCare Health Systems, LLC.   
      
    Dental Strategies     PacifiCare Dental     PacifiCare Dental   Vision     PacifiCare Dental and Vision     PacifiCare Dental and Vision Administrators     PacifiCare Dental Insurance
Marketing     PacifiCare Insurance Marketing     PacifiCare
Vision    
 
    PacifiCare Health Systems, LLC   
      
  DE  
      
    UnitedHealth Group Incorporated   

PacifiCare International Limited   
      
  Ireland  
      
    PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.   

PacifiCare Life and Health Insurance Company   
      
  IN  
      
    PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.   

PacifiCare Life Assurance Company   
      
  CO  
      
    PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.   

PacifiCare of Arizona, Inc.   
      
  AZ  
      
    PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.   
      
    PacifiCare     Secure Horizons    
 
    PacifiCare of California   
      
  CA  
      
    PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.   
      
    PacifiCare     Secure Horizons    
 
    PacifiCare of Colorado, Inc.   
      
  CO  
      
    PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.   
      
  Secure Horizons   
 
    PacifiCare of Nevada, Inc.   
      
  NV  
      
    PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.   
      
    PacifiCare     Secure Horizons    
 
    PacifiCare of Oklahoma, Inc.   
      
  OK  
      
    PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.   
      
    PacifiCare     PacifiCare Health Options     PacifiCare of Oklahoma     Secure Horizons    
 
    PacifiCare of Oregon, Inc.   
      
  OR  
      
    PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.   
      
    PacifiCare     Secure Horizons    
 
    PacifiCare of Texas, Inc.   
      
  TX  
      
    PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.   
      
    PacifiCare     Secure Horizons    
 
    PacifiCare of Washington   
      
  WA  
      
    PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.   
      
    PacifiCare     Secure Horizons    
 
    PacificDental Benefits, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    OptumHealth, Inc.   
      
  PDS Acquisition Corporation   
 
    Passport Coast-to-Coast LLC   
      
  DE  
      
    United HealthCare Services, Inc.   

Physicians Heath Plan of Maryland, Inc.   
      
  MD  
      
    Mid Atlantic Medical Services, LLC   

ppoOne, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    UMR Holdings, Inc.   

Prime Health, Inc.   
      
  NV  
      
    Sierra Health Services, Inc.   
      
  Med One Works   
 
    ProcessWorks, Inc.   
      
  WI  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   

PsychCME, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    Ingenix, Inc.   

Red Oak E-Commerce Solutions, Inc.   
      
  VA  
      
    Ingenix, Inc.   

Romania i3 Research Ingenix S.R.L.   
      
  Romania  
      
    Ingenix International (Netherlands) B.V.   

RSB Holdings, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    Ingenix, Inc.   

Rx Solutions NY IPA, Inc.   
      
  NY  
      
    RxSolutions, Inc.   

RxSolutions, Inc.   
      
  CA  
      
    PacifiCare Health Systems, LLC.   
      
    Prescription Solutions     PRESCRIPTION
SOLUTIONS    
 
    Salveo Holding, LLC   
      
  DE  
      
    PacifiCare Health Systems, LLC.   

Salveo Insurance Company, Ltd.   
      
  Caymans  
      
    Salveo Holding, LLC   

Sheridan RE, Inc.   
      
  AZ  
      
    UMR Holdings, Inc.   

Sierra Health and Life Insurance Company, Inc.   
      
  CA  
      
    Sierra Health Services, Inc.   

Sierra Health Holdings, Inc.   
      
  NV  
      
    Sierra Health Services, Inc.   

Sierra Health Services, Inc.   
      
  NV  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   

Sierra Health-Care Options, Inc.   
      
  NV  
      
    Sierra Health Services, Inc.   

Sierra Home Medical Products, Inc.   
      
  NV  
      
    Sierra Health Services, Inc.   
      
    THC of Nevada     THC of Nevada
Pharmacy    
 
    Sierra Military Health Services, LLC   
      
  DE  
      
    Sierra Health Services, Inc.   

Sierra Nevada Administrators, Inc.   
      
  NV  
      
    Sierra Health Services, Inc.   

Southwest Medical Associates, Inc.   
      
  NV  
      
    Sierra Health Services, Inc.   
      
  Southwest Hospitalist Services Group   
 
    Southwest Michigan Health Network Inc.   
      
  MI  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   

Special Risk International, Inc.   
      
  MD  
      
    OptumHealth, Inc.   

Specialty Resource Services, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    United Resource Networks, Inc.   
      
  Specialized Resource Solutions   
 
    Spectera of New York, IPA, Inc.   
      
  NY  
      
    OptumHealth, Inc.   

Spectera, Inc.   
      
  MD  
      
    OptumHealth, Inc.   
      
    CARE Programs, a division of Spectera, Inc.     Employee
Vision Services, Inc.     Oklahoma Employees Benefits Services     Spectera     United Optical    
 
    Texas Health Choice, L.C.   
      
  TX  
      
    Sierra Health Services, Inc.   

The Lewin Group, Inc.   
      
  NC  
      
    Ingenix Public Sector Solutions, Inc.   

Three Rivers Holdings, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    AmeriChoice Corporation   

U.S. Behavioral Health Plan, California   
      
  CA  
      
    United Behavioral Health   
      
  OptumHealth Behavioral Solutions of California   
 
    UHC International Services, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    UnitedHealth Group Incorporated   

UHIC Holdings, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    United HealthCare Services, Inc.   

4   

Name of Subsidiary    
      
   Incorporated or Organized   
      
     Direct Parent Company of the Subsidiary    
      
     Additional Names under which the       Subsidiary is Doing Business     
 
    UMR Care Management, LLLP   
      
  DE  
      
    UMR Holdings, Inc.   
      
    ValueCHECK     Avidyn Health LLP     Avidyn Health LP     Avidyn Health LLLP, LTD.     Avidyn Health    
 
    ACN Group of California, Inc.   
      
  CA  
      
    ACN Group, Inc.   
      
  OptumHealth Physical Health of California   
 
    UMR Holdings, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    United HealthCare Services, Inc.   

UMR, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    UMR Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Avidyn Health   
 
    Unimerica Insurance Company   
      
  WI  
      
    OptumHealth, Inc.   
      
  Unimerica Life Insurance Company   
 
    Unimerica Life Insurance Company of New York   
      
  NY  
      
    United HealthCare Insurance Company   

Union Health Solutions, Inc.   
      
  CA  
      
    PacifiCare Health Systems, LLC.   

Uniprise, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    United HealthCare Services, Inc.   

Unison Administrative Services, LLC   
      
  PA  
      
    Three Rivers Holdings, Inc.   

Unison Family Health Plan of Pennsylvania, Inc.   
      
  PA  
      
    Unison Health Plan of Pennsylvania, Inc.   
      
  Unison Kids   
 
    Unison Health Holdings of Ohio, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    Three Rivers Holdings, Inc.   

Unison Health Plan of Delaware, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    Three Rivers Holdings, Inc.   

Unison Health Plan of New Jersey, Inc.   
      
  NJ  
      
    Three Rivers Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Unison Health Plan, Unison Kids, Unison   
 
    Unison Health Plan of Ohio, Inc.   
      
  OH  
      
    Unison Health Holdings of Ohio, Inc.   
      
  Unison, Unison Kids, Unison ABD Plus, Unison Health Plan   Unison Advantage   
 
    Unison Health Plan of Pennsylvania, Inc.   
      
  PA  
      
    Three Rivers Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Unison Health Plan   Unison Advantage   
 
    Unison Health Plan of South Carolina, Inc.   
      
  SC  
      
    Three Rivers Holdings, Inc.   

Unison Health Plan of Tennessee, Inc.   
      
  TN  
      
    Three Rivers Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Unison, Unison Kids, Unison Health Plan   Unison Advantage   
 
    Unison Health Plan of the Capital Area, Inc.   
      
  DC  
      
    Three Rivers Holdings, Inc.   

United Behavioral Health   
      
  CA  
      
    United HealthCare Services, Inc.   
      
    Optum Behavioral Solutions, Inc.     Plan 21, INCORPORATED
     United Behavioral Health (Inc.)     United Behavioral Health, Inc.
     United Behavioral Systems, Inc.    
 
    United Behavioral Health of New York, I.P.A., Inc.   
      
  NY  
      
    United Behavioral Health   

United Health Foundation   
      
  MN  
      
    UnitedHealth Group Incorporated   
      
  United Health Hospice Foundation   
 
    United Healthcare International Mauritius Limited   
      
  Mauritius  
      
    UnitedHealthGroup International B.V.   

United HealthCare of Alabama, Inc.   
      
  AL  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   

United HealthCare of Florida, Inc.   
      
  FL  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   
      
  Evercare at Home   
 
    United HealthCare of Georgia, Inc.   
      
  GA  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   
      
  United HealthCare of Georgia   
 
    United HealthCare of Louisiana, Inc.   
      
  LA  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   

United HealthCare of Mississippi, Inc.   
      
  MS  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   

United HealthCare of Texas, Inc.   
      
  TX  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   
      
  UnitedHealthcare   
 
    United HealthCare of Utah   
      
  UT  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   

United HealthCare Products, LLC   
      
  DE  
      
    United HealthCare Insurance Company   
      
    AARP Health Care Options Pharmacy Services     AARP Pharmacy
Services     FirstLine Medical     UnitedHealth
Products    
 
    United HealthCare Services, Inc.   
      
  MN  
      
    UnitedHealth Group Incorporated   
      
    AmeriChoice     Center for Health Care Policy and Evaluation
     Charter HealthCare, Inc.     Employee Performance
Design     Evercare     GenCare PPO     HealthCare Evaluation Services     Healthmarc     HealthPro     Health Professionals Review     Managed Care for the Aged     Optum     Personal Decision Services     SeniorCare Select   Design     The Long Term Care Group     UHC Management     UHC Management Company     UHC Management Company, Inc.     UHC of Missouri     Unimerica Workplace Benefits     United HealthCare Corporation     United HealthCare Management Company,
Inc.     United HealthCare Management Services     United HealthCare of
Missouri     United HealthCare Services of Minnesota     United
HealthCare Services of Minnesota, Inc.     United Resource Networks     United Resource Networks, Inc.     UnitedHealth Products    
       
   5   

Name of Subsidiary    
      
   Incorporated or Organized   
      
     Direct Parent Company of the Subsidiary    
      
     Additional Names under which the Subsidiary is Doing
Business     
 
    United Medical Resources, Inc.   
      
  OH  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   

United Resource Networks IPA of New York, Inc.   
      
  NY  
      
    United Resource Networks, Inc.   

United Resource Networks, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    OptumHealth, Inc.   

UnitedHealth Advisors, LLC   
      
  ME  
      
    United HealthCare Services, Inc.   
      
  DCG OnLine Insurance Agency, LLC   
 
    UnitedHealth Capital, LLC   
      
  DE  
      
    United HealthCare Services, Inc.   

UnitedHealth Group Incorporated   
      
  MN  
      
    N/A   
      
  UnitedHealth Group   
 
    UnitedHealth Group Information Services Private Limited   
      
  India  
      
    UnitedHealthGroup International B.V.   

UnitedHealth Group International B.V.   
      
  Netherlands  
      
    UnitedHealth Group Incorporated   

UnitedHealth International, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    UnitedHealth Group Incorporated   

UnitedHealth Military   Veterans Services, LLC   
      
  DE  
      
    United HealthCare Services, Inc.   

UnitedHealth Primary Care Limited   
      
  UK  
      
    UnitedHealth UK Limited   

UnitedHealth Primary Care Plus Limited   
      
  UK  
      
    UnitedHealth UK Limited   

UnitedHealth UK Limited   
      
  UK  
      
    United HealthCare Services, Inc.   

UnitedHealthcare Alliance LLC   
      
  DE  
      
    United HealthCare Insurance Company   

UnitedHealthcare Asia Limited   
      
  Hong Kong  
      
    UnitedHealthcare International Asia, LLC   

UnitedHealthcare India (Private) Limited   
      
  India  
      
    UnitedHealthGroup International B.V.   

UnitedHealthcare Insurance Company   
      
  CT  
      
    UHIC Holdings, Inc.   

UnitedHealthcare Insurance Company of Illinois   
      
  IL  
      
    United HealthCare Insurance Company   

UnitedHealthcare Insurance Company of New York   
      
  NY  
      
    United HealthCare Insurance Company   

UnitedHealthcare Insurance Company of Ohio   
      
  OH  
      
    United HealthCare Insurance Company   

UnitedHealthcare Insurance Company of the River Valley   
      
  IL  
      
    UnitedHealthcare Services Company of the River Valley, Inc.   

UnitedHealthcare International Asia, LLC   
      
  DE  
      
    UnitedHealth Group Incorporated   

UnitedHealthcare of Arizona, Inc.   
      
  AZ  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   

UnitedHealthcare of Arkansas, Inc.   
      
  AR  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   
      
  Complete Health   
 
    UnitedHealthcare of Colorado, Inc.   
      
  CO  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   
      
  MetraHealth Care Plan   
 
    UnitedHealthcare of Illinois, Inc.   
      
  IL  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   

UnitedHealthcare of Kentucky, Ltd.   
      
  KY  
      
    United HealthCare Services, Inc.   

UnitedHealthcare of New England, Inc.   
      
  RI  
      
    United HealthCare Services, Inc.   
      
  Ocean State Physicians Health Plan   
 
    UnitedHealthcare of New York, Inc.   
      
  NY  
      
    AmeriChoice Corporation   
      
  AmeriChoice   
 
    UnitedHealthcare of North Carolina, Inc.   
      
  NC  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   

UnitedHealthcare of Ohio, Inc.   
      
  OH  
      
    United HealthCare Services, Inc.   

UnitedHealthcare of Tennessee, Inc.   
      
  TN  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   

UnitedHealthcare of the Mid-Atlantic, Inc.   
      
  MD  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   

UnitedHealthcare of the Midlands, Inc.   
      
  NE  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   

UnitedHealthcare of the Midwest, Inc.   
      
  MO  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   

UnitedHealthcare of Wisconsin, Inc.   
      
  WI  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   
      
  UNITEDHEALTHCARE OF WISCONSIN-PERSONAL CARE PLUS   
 
    UnitedHealthcare Plan of the River Valley, Inc.   
      
  IL  
      
    UnitedHealthcare Services Company of the River Valley, Inc.   

UnitedHealthcare Service LLC   
      
  DE  
      
    United HealthCare Insurance Company   

UnitedHealthcare Services Company of the River Valley, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   

UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
    United HealthCare Services, Inc.   

UnitedHealthOne Agency, Inc.   
      
  IN  
      
    Golden Rule Financial Corporation   

Worldwide Clinical Trials, SL   
      
  Spain  
      
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.   

6   

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 24
 dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

Exhibit 23.1        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement File Nos.
33-50282, 33-59083, 33-59623, 33-67918, 33-75846, 333-04875, 333-06533, 333-25923, 333-50461, 333-81337, 333-87243, 333-88506, 333-90247, 333-46284, 333-55666, 333-100027, 333-105877, 333-117769, 333-118050, 333-123306, 333-127610, 333-130547,
333-149031, and 333-151569 of our reports dated February 11, 2009, relating to the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and the effectiveness of UnitedHealth Group
Incorporated s internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated for the year ended December 31, 2008.       

</EX-23.1>

<EX-24.1>
 25
 dex241.htm
 POWER OF ATTORNEY

Power of Attorney 

Exhibit 24.1        POWER OF ATTORNEY       KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears
below hereby constitutes and appoints Christopher J. Walsh and Dannette L. Smith, and each of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, each acting alone, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in
his or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign an Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 for UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, and any and all amendments thereto, and to file the same, with all exhibits
thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents
and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, each acting alone, or his or her substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Power of Attorney as of the date set forth below.       

/s/    William C. Ballard, Jr.     William C. Ballard, Jr.     Director     Dated: February 9, 2009   
     
    /s/    Douglas W. Leatherdale     Douglas W. Leatherdale     Director     Dated: February 11, 2009    

/s/    Richard T. Burke     Richard T. Burke     Director     Dated: February 6, 2009   
     
    /s/    Glenn M. Renwick     Glenn M. Renwick     Director     Dated: February 9, 2009    

/s/    Robert J. Darretta     Robert J. Darretta     Director     Dated: February 9, 2009   
     
    /s/    Gail R. Wilensky, Ph.D.     Gail R. Wilensky, Ph.D.     Director     Dated: February 6, 2009    

/s/    Michele J. Hooper     Michele J. Hooper     Director     Dated: February 9, 2009   

</EX-24.1>

<EX-31.1>
 26
 dex311.htm
 CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

Certifications pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

EXHIBIT 31.1        CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE        SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002        Certification of Principal Executive Officer       I,
Stephen J. Hemsley, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the  registrant          

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

February 11, 2009   
     
    /s/    STEPHEN J.
HEMSLEY            

Stephen J. Hemsley       President and Chief Executive Officer     

Certification of Principal Financial Officer       I, George L. Mikan III, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the  registrant          

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

February 11, 2009  
     
    /s/    GEORGE L. MIKAN
III            

George L. Mikan III       Executive Vice President and       Chief Financial Officer     

</EX-31.1>

<EX-32.1>
 27
 dex321.htm
 CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

Certifications pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

EXHIBIT 32.1        CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002        Certification of Principal Executive Officer       In connection with the Annual Report of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2008 as filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Stephen J. Hemsley, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:

(1)  
  The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and         

(2)  
  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.         

February 11, 2009  
     
    /s/    STEPHEN J.
HEMSLEY            

Stephen J. Hemsley       President and Chief Executive Officer     
     Certification of Principal Financial Officer       In connection with the Annual Report of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2008 as filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, George L. Mikan III, certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:

(1)  
  The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and         

(2)  
  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.         

February 11, 2009  
     
    /s/    GEORGE L. MIKAN
III            

George L. Mikan III       Executive Vice President and       Chief Financial Officer     

</EX-32.1>

<EX-99.1>
 28
 dex991.htm
 STIPULATION OF SETTLEMENT, DATED AS OF NOVEMBER 12, 2008

Stipulation of Settlement, dated as of November 12, 2008 

Exhibit 99.1       UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT      DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA       

In re UNITEDHEALTH GROUP     INCORPORATED PSLRA LITIGATION   
      
    )     )   
      
    Civil File No. 0:06-cv-01691-JMR-FLN        

)  
      
     CLASS ACTION     
 
  This Document Relates To:  
      
  )  

ALL ACTIONS.       
      
    )     )     )   

STIPULATION OF SETTLEMENT       This Stipulation of Settlement dated as of November 12, 2008 (the  Stipulation ) is made and entered into pursuant to Rule 23 of the
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and contains the terms of a settlement by and among the Parties to the above-entitled Litigation: (i) the Lead Plaintiff (on behalf of itself and each of the Class Members), by and through Lead Counsel; and
(ii) the Defendants, by and through their counsel of record in the Litigation. The Stipulation is intended by the Parties to fully, finally and forever resolve, discharge and settle the Released Claims, upon and subject to the terms and
conditions hereof and subject to the approval of this Court. All capitalized terms in this Stipulation shall have the meanings specified for them herein.       

I.   
   THE LITIGATION         On July 7, 2006, California
Public Employees  Retirement System ( CalPERS ) initiated an action against the Defendants in the United States District Court, District of Minnesota (the  Court ), by complaint styled as  California Public Employees 
Retirement System, et al. v. UnitedHealth Group Inc., et al. , and docketed as Index  

Number Civ. No. 06 CV 2939 (the  Action ), alleging various violations of the federal securities laws. A number of similar class action
complaints were filed in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota beginning in May 2006.      On August 11, 2006,
this Court consolidated the Action with related proceedings pursuant to Rule 42 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure as  In re UnitedHealth Group Incorporated PSLRA Litigation Civil Action , Case No. 06-1691-JMR-FLN (the
 Consolidated Action  or  Litigation ).      On October 31, 2006, the Court appointed CalPERS Lead Plaintiff in the
Consolidated Action and Lerach Coughlin Stoia Geller Rudman   Robbins LLP Lead Counsel for the Lead Plaintiff. On December 8, 2006, Plaintiffs filed a consolidated complaint in the Consolidated Action (the  Consolidated
Complaint ) against the Defendants, which includes claims for violations of Sections 11 and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 10(b), Rule 10b-5, and Sections 14(a) and 20 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The named
defendants in the Consolidated Complaint were UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, Dr. William W. McGuire ( Dr. McGuire ), David J. Lubben, Stephen J. Hemsley, Patrick J. Erlandson, Robert J. Sheehy, William A. Munsell, Tracy L.
Bahl, Lois E. Quam, James A. Johnson, Thomas H. Kean, Mary O. Mundinger, William C. Ballard, Douglas W. Leatherdale, William G. Spears, Gail R. Wilensky, Richard T. Burke, Donna E. Shalala, and Robert L. Ryan. Lead Plaintiff sought to recover money
and/or other relief on behalf of itself and a putative class.         
   2   

On June 4, 2007, the Court denied Defendants  motions to dismiss. Thereafter, Defendants filed
answers denying all material allegations in the Consolidated Complaint and asserting various defenses thereto.      On September 7, 2007,
the Court entered a Stipulated Confidentiality Agreement concerning discovery materials (the  Confidentiality Order ). On March 18, 2008, the Court granted CalPERS  motion for class certification, certified the Class and
appointed CalPERS and Alaska Plumbing and Pipefitting Industry Pension Trust ( Alaska Plumbing ) as class representatives and Coughlin Stoia Geller Rudman   Robbins LLP as class counsel.      During the pendency of the Litigation, Lead Plaintiff and Defendants engaged in extensive discovery. For example, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated has
produced more than twenty-two million pages of documents, and Lead Plaintiff and Defendants have conducted more than sixty depositions. Those depositions began in early 2008.       

II.   
   DEFENDANTS  DENIALS OF WRONGDOING AND LIABILITY         The Defendants deny each and all of the claims and contentions alleged in the Litigation, deny that that they engaged in any wrongdoing, deny that they committed any violation of law, and deny that they acted improperly in any way. The
Defendants also assert certain defenses. The Defendants expressly have denied and continue to deny all charges of wrongdoing, fault or liability against them arising out of any of the conduct, statements, acts or omissions alleged, or that could
have been alleged, in the Litigation. The Defendants also have denied and continue to deny,  inter alia , the allegations that the Lead Plaintiff or the Class have suffered any damages, and that the Lead Plaintiff or the Class were harmed by
any conduct alleged in the Litigation or that could have been alleged therein.         
   3   

Nonetheless, the Defendants have concluded that further conduct of the Litigation would be protracted and
expensive, and that it is desirable that the Litigation be fully and finally settled in the manner and upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Stipulation. The Defendants also have taken into account the uncertainty and risks inherent in any
litigation, especially in complex cases like this Litigation. The Defendants have, therefore, determined that it is desirable and beneficial to them that the Litigation be settled in the manner and upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Stipulation, without in any way acknowledging any wrongdoing, fault, liability or damage to Lead Plaintiff or the Class.       

III.   
   CLAIMS OF THE LEAD PLAINTIFF AND BENEFITS OF SETTLEMENT         The Lead Plaintiff believes that the claims asserted in the Litigation have merit and believes that the evidence developed to date, which consists of information developed by Lead Counsel during their review of approximately twenty-seven
million pages of documents produced by Defendants and more than sixty third parties, by taking or defending sixty-eight depositions and by preparing the case for trial, supports the claims. However, the Lead Plaintiff and Lead Counsel recognize and
acknowledge the expense and length of continued proceedings necessary to prosecute the Litigation against the Defendants through trial and appeals. The Lead Plaintiff and Lead Counsel also have taken into account the uncertain outcome and the risk
of any litigation, especially in complex actions such as this Litigation, as well as the difficulties and delays  
       
   4   

inherent in such litigation. The Lead Plaintiff and Lead Counsel are also mindful of the inherent problems of proof under and possible defenses to the
violations asserted in the Litigation. The Lead Plaintiff and Lead Counsel, based upon their thorough evaluation, believe that the settlement set forth in the Stipulation is fair, reasonable, and adequate and in the best interests of the Class
Members and that it confers substantial benefits upon the Class Members. Lead Plaintiff and Lead Counsel shall use their best efforts to obtain final Court approval of the settlement set forth in the Stipulation and to encourage all Class Members to
participate in the settlement.       

IV.   
   TERMS OF STIPULATION AND AGREEMENT OF SETTLEMENT         NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY STIPULATED AND AGREED by and among the Lead Plaintiff (for itself and the Class Members) and the Defendants, by and through their respective counsel of record, that, subject to the approval of the Court, the
Litigation and the Released Claims shall be finally and fully compromised, settled and released, and the Litigation shall be dismissed with prejudice, as to all Defendants, upon and subject to the terms and conditions of this Stipulation, as
follows.       

1.   
   Definitions         As used in the Stipulation the
following terms have the meanings specified below:      1.1  Authorized Claimant  means any Class Member whose claim for recovery has
been allowed pursuant to the terms of the Stipulation.      1.2  Claims Administrator  means the firm of Gilardi   Co.
        
   5   

1.3  Class  means all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired the publicly traded
securities of UnitedHealth between January 20, 2005 and May 17, 2006 (the  Class Period ), including those Class Period purchasers who also held UnitedHealth stock during the 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 UnitedHealth proxy
solicitations, and those who acquired UnitedHealth stock in or traceable to the December 20, 2005 merger with PacifiCare Health Systems, Inc. Excluded from the Class are all Defendants, the present and former officers and directors of
UnitedHealth, their immediate families and their legal representatives, heirs, successors or assigns and any entity in which Defendants have a controlling interest. Also excluded from the Class are those Persons who request exclusion from the Class
in such form and manner, and within such time, as the Court shall prescribe.      1.4  Class Member  or  Member of the
Class  means a Person who falls within the definition of the Class, and  Class Members  means all such Persons.      1.5
 Defendants  means UnitedHealth and the Individual Defendants.      1.6  Defendants MOU  means the memorandum of
understanding entered into among Dr. McGuire, Mr. Lubben, UnitedHealth, and the other Individual Defendants on or around September 2008.      1.7  Effective Date  means the first date by which all of the events and conditions specified in   8.1 of the Stipulation have occurred.      1.8  Escrow Agent  means Lead Counsel or its successor.      1.9  Final  means: (i) if
no appeal is timely filed, the expiration date of the time for the filing or noticing of an appeal from the Judgment; or (ii) if an appeal is timely filed, (a) the later of the date of final affirmance on an appeal of the Judgment, the
expiration of the time for a petition for a writ of certiorari to review the affirmance, a  
       
   6   

denial of certiorari that has been timely sought or, if certiorari is granted, the date of final affirmance of the Judgment following review pursuant to that
grant; or (b) the date of final dismissal of any appeal from the Judgment or the final dismissal of any proceeding on certiorari to review the Judgment.      1.10  Final Settlement Approval  means an order and judgment by the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota finally approving the terms of this Stipulation pursuant to FED.R.CIV.P. 23(e).
     1.11  Individual Defendants  means Dr. McGuire, David J. Lubben, Stephen J. Hemsley, Patrick J. Erlandson, Robert J.
Sheehy, William A. Munsell, Tracy L. Bahl, Lois E. Quam, James A. Johnson, Thomas H. Kean, Mary O. Mundinger, William C. Ballard, Douglas W. Leatherdale, William G. Spears, Gail R. Wilensky, Richard T. Burke, Donna E. Shalala, and Robert L. Ryan.
     1.12  Judgment  means the judgment to be rendered by the Court, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B.
     1.13  Lead Counsel  means Coughlin Stoia Geller Rudman   Robbins LLP, Darren J. Robbins, Keith F. Park, Michael J.
Dowd, Ramzi Abadou, Andrew Brown, 655 West Broadway, Suite 1900, San Diego, CA 92101-3301, or any successor thereof.      1.14  Lead
Plaintiff  means CalPERS.      1.15  Lubben MOU  means the memorandum of understanding entered into among Plaintiffs and
Mr. Lubben on or around September 8, 2008.      1.16  McGuire MOU  means the memorandum of understanding entered into
among Plaintiffs and Dr. McGuire on or around September 8, 2008.         
   7   

1.17  Net Settlement Fund  means the Settlement Fund less (i) any Taxes and Tax Expenses
(as such terms are defined in   3.1 below), (ii) the amount allocated to Lead Counsel for attorneys  fees and expenses pursuant to any Fee and Expense Application (defined in   7.1 below) approved by the Court pursuant to
   7.1 and 7.2 hereof, (iii) the amount allocated to Lead Plaintiff s expenses (including lost wages) incurred in representing the Class if and to the extent allowed by the Court, and (iv) the amount allocated to the Class
Notice and Administration Fund pursuant to   2.8 hereof.      1.18  Parties  means, collectively, each of the Defendants and the
Lead Plaintiff on behalf of itself and the Class Members.      1.19  Person  means an individual, corporation, partnership, limited
partnership, limited liability partnership (LLP), limited liability corporation (LLC), association, joint stock company, estate, legal representative, trust, unincorporated association, government or any political subdivision or agency thereof, and
any business or legal entity, and their spouses, heirs, predecessors, successors, representatives, or assignees.      1.20
 Plaintiffs  means CalPERS, Alaska Plumbing and Class Members.      1.21  Plan of Allocation  means a plan or formula of
allocation of the Settlement Fund whereby the Net Settlement Fund shall be distributed to Authorized Claimants. Any Plan of Allocation is not part of the Stipulation and the Defendants and Released Persons shall have no liability with respect
thereto.      1.22  Preliminary Settlement Approval  means an order by the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota
preliminarily approving the terms of this Stipulation and ordering that notice be issued to the Class pursuant to      FED.R.CIV.P. 23(e)(1).         
   8   

1.23  Released Claims  means any and all claims, demands, rights, liabilities and causes of
action of every nature and description whatsoever (including, but not limited to, all claims for damages, interest, attorneys  fees and expert consulting fees and all other costs, expenses and liabilities whatsoever), whether based at law or in
equity, on federal, state, local, foreign, statutory or common law or on any other law, rule, or regulation (including, but not limited to, all claims arising out of or relating to any acts, omissions, disclosures, public filings, registration
statements, financial statements, audit opinions, or statements by the Defendants, including without limitation, claims for negligence, gross negligence, constructive or actual fraud, negligent misrepresentation, conspiracy, or breach of fiduciary
duty), whether known or unknown, concealed or hidden, accrued or not accrued, foreseen or unforeseen, matured or not matured, that were asserted or that could have been asserted directly, indirectly, representatively or in any other capacity,
at any time, in any forum by Plaintiffs against the Released Persons arising out of, based upon, or related in any way to: (a) the purchase, acquisition, sale, or disposition of any publicly traded securities of UnitedHealth by any Plaintiff
during the Class Period, the allegations that were made or could have been made in the Litigation and any of the facts, transactions, events, occurrences, disclosures, statements, acts, omissions or failures to act which were or that could have been
asserted by Plaintiffs in the Litigation; or (b) the settlement or resolution of the Litigation (including, without limitation, any claim for attorneys  fees by Lead Plaintiff or any Class Member). 
       
   9   

Released Claims shall also include any Unknown Claims. Released Claims do not include any claims in the actions styled  In re UnitedHealth Group Inc.
Shareholder Derivative Litig. , Master File No. 06-1216 JMR-FLN (D. Minn.) or  In re UnitedHealth Group Inc. Derivative Litig. , File No. 27 CV-06-8085 (Hennepin County) (the  Derivative Actions ), or the action styled
 Zilhaver v. UnitedHealth Group Inc., et al. , Civ. No. 0:06-cv-02237 JMR-FLN (D. Minn.) (the  ERISA Action ).      1.24
 Released Persons  means the Defendants, their past or present directors, officers, partners, members, employees, controlling shareholders, present and former attorneys, consultants, accountants or auditors, banks or investment banks,
advisors, agents, personal or legal representatives, insurers, reinsurers, predecessors, successors, parents, subsidiaries, divisions, assigns, spouses, heirs, devisees, executors, trustees, administrators, or related or affiliated entities, any
partnership in which a Defendant is a general or limited partner, any entity in which a Defendant has a controlling interest, any member of an Individual Defendant s immediate family, or any trust or foundation of which any Defendant is the
settlor or which is for the benefit of any Individual Defendant and/or member(s) of his or her family. Insurers providing director and officer insurance coverage to present and former directors and officers of UnitedHealth are included in the
definition of Released Persons.      1.25  Settlement Fund  means the principal amount of $925,500,000 in cash plus all interest
earned thereon pursuant to this Stipulation.      1.26  Taxes  means federal, state, local and non-U.S. income and other taxes,
together with any interest, penalties or additions to tax imposed with respect thereto.         
   10   

1.27  Tax Expenses  means expenses incurred in connection with the implementation of   2.8
hereof, including reasonable expenses of tax attorneys and accountants retained by the Escrow Agent.      1.28  UnitedHealth  means
UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, any and all successors, subsidiaries, and affiliates of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, as well as any predecessors of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and their successors, subsidiaries, and affiliates.   
  1.29  UnitedHealth MOU  means the July 1, 2008 Memorandum of Understanding entered into among Plaintiffs,
UnitedHealth, and the Individual Defendants (except Dr. McGuire and Mr. Lubben) (together with the McGuire MOU and Lubben MOU, the  PSLRA MOUs ).      1.30  Unknown Claims  means any and all claims that any Plaintiff does not know or suspect to exist in his, her, its or their favor at the time
of the release of the Released Persons which, if known by him, her, it, or them might have affected his, her, its or their settlement with and release of the Released Persons, or might have affected his, her, its, or their decision not to object to
this settlement. With respect to any and all Released Claims, the Parties stipulate and agree that Plaintiffs shall be deemed to have expressly waived the provisions, rights and benefits of California Civil Code  1542, which provides:
      A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS OR HER FAVOR AT THE TIME OF
EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIM OR HER MUST HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS OR HER SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR.          
   11   

Plaintiffs expressly waive any and all provisions, rights and benefits conferred by any law, or principle of common law,
which is similar, comparable or equivalent to California Civil Code  1542. Any Plaintiff may hereafter discover facts in addition to or different from those that he, she, it or they now know or believe to exist or to be true with respect to the
subject matter of the Released Claims, but the Plaintiffs shall have fully, finally, and forever settled and released any and all Released Claims, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, contingent or non-contingent, whether or not concealed or
hidden, which now exist, or heretofore have existed, upon any theory of law or equity now existing or coming into existence in the future, including, but not limited to, conduct that is negligent, intentional, with or without malice, or a breach of
any duty, law or rule, without regard to the subsequent discovery or existence of such different or additional facts. Plaintiffs acknowledge that the foregoing waiver was separately bargained for and a material element of the settlement.   

2.   
   The Settlement          

a.   
   The Settlement Fund         2.1 UnitedHealth shall pay the
settlement sum of $895,000,000 (the  UnitedHealth Settlement Sum ). $450,000,000 of the UnitedHealth Settlement Sum ( First Installment ) was deposited on September 16, 2008 into an interest-bearing escrow account controlled
by Lead Counsel and subject to the Court s oversight (the  Settlement Account ). UnitedHealth deposited the remainder of the UnitedHealth  
       
   12   

Settlement Sum, that is $445,000,000 ( Second Installment ), into the Settlement Account on September 18, 2008. The principal amount of the
First and Second Installments bore interest at four and one half percent (4.5%) from September 15, 2008 until they were transferred into the Settlement Account. No funds are to be paid or withdrawn from the Settlement Account absent a
Court order, except as is consistent with the terms of this Stipulation for the payment of notice and Settlement administration expenses, taxes on the UnitedHealth Settlement Sum, and tax form preparation, or as otherwise set forth in this
Stipulation.      2.2 Dr. McGuire shall pay the settlement sum of $30,000,000 (the  McGuire Settlement Sum ) into the Settlement
Account, to the extent such amount has not already been paid prior to the date hereof, by wire transfer, according to the instructions to be supplied by Plaintiffs, thirty (30) days following the later of the following two events (but in no
event later than thirty (30) days following the date of Final Settlement Approval): (1) the date the Court gives Preliminary Settlement Approval, and (2) the date the Court modifies the injunction entered on December 26, 2007, in
a manner that allows Dr. McGuire fully to exercise the UnitedHealth stock options he retains pursuant to the terms of this Stipulation and any other agreements, unless the December 26, 2007 injunction is so modified prior to Preliminary
Settlement Approval, in which case Dr. McGuire agrees to fund the McGuire Settlement Sum within thirty days of such a modification of the December 26, 2007 injunction. If Dr. McGuire has not paid the McGuire Settlement Sum by thirty
(30) days after Preliminary Settlement Approval, he agrees to pay interest on the McGuire Settlement Sum at a 90-day T-bill rate starting from thirty (30) days after  
       
   13   

Preliminary Settlement Approval to the date of payment, but not to exceed $125,000. Dr. McGuire will not seek reimbursement for the McGuire Settlement
Sum directly or indirectly from any third party, including insurers, UnitedHealth or the Individual Defendants. Dr. McGuire reserves and does not waive any rights to advancement or reimbursement of defense fees or costs. Dr. McGuire also
agrees to surrender voluntarily all rights in the following stock options granted to him by UnitedHealth no later than ten (10) days after Final Settlement Approval:       
    2.3 Defendant David Lubben shall pay the settlement sum of $500,000 (the  Lubben Settlement
Sum ) into the Settlement Account by wire transfer, according to the instructions to be supplied by Plaintiffs, thirty (30) days following the Preliminary Settlement Approval. Defendant David Lubben will not seek reimbursement for the
Lubben Settlement Sum directly or indirectly from any third party, including insurers, UnitedHealth or the Individual Defendants. Mr. Lubben reserves and does not waive any rights to advancement or reimbursement of defense fees or costs.
        
   14   

2.4 No funds are to be paid or withdrawn from the Settlement Account absent a Court order, except as is
consistent with the terms of this Stipulation for the payment of notice and Settlement administration expenses, taxes on the UnitedHealth Settlement Sum, and tax form preparation, or as otherwise set forth in this Stipulation. Defendants  sole
financial obligation to Plaintiffs and Lead Counsel under this Stipulation shall be as set forth in this    2.1, 2.2 and 2.3, and under no circumstances shall Defendants have any obligation to make any other or greater payment to
Plaintiffs or Lead Counsel for any purposes pursuant to the settlement set forth herein. In addition, prior to the Effective Date, under no circumstances shall withdrawals, payments, or deductions from the Lubben Settlement Sum exceed a maximum of
$15,000. The Escrow Agent shall not charge or receive any fees or payment for acting its role as Escrow Agent.       

b.   
   The Escrow Agent         2.5 The Escrow Agent shall invest
the Settlement Fund in instruments backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government, with maturity of 91 days or less, or fully insured by the United States Government, and shall reinvest the proceeds of the instruments as they
mature in similar instruments at their then current market rates. The Escrow Agent shall not bear the risk of loss on investments made in accordance with the foregoing investment guidelines.      2.6 The Escrow Agent shall not disburse the Settlement Fund except as provided in this Stipulation or by an order of the Court or with the written
agreement of counsel for all Defendants.      2.7 All funds held by the Escrow Agent shall be deemed and considered to be in  custodia legis
 of the Court, and shall remain subject to the jurisdiction of the Court, until such time as such funds shall be distributed pursuant to the Stipulation and/or further order(s) of the Court.         
   15   

2.8 Within five (5) days after Preliminary Settlement Approval, the Escrow Agent may establish a
 Class Notice and Administration Fund,  and may deposit up to $5,000,000 from the UnitedHealth Settlement Sum in it. The Class Notice and Administration Fund shall be used by Lead Counsel only to pay costs and expenses reasonably and
actually incurred in connection with providing notice to the Class, locating Class Members, soliciting claims, assisting with the filing of claims, administering and distributing the Net Settlement Fund to Authorized Claimants, and processing Proof
of Claim and Release forms. The Class Notice and Administration Fund may also be invested and earn interest as provided for in   2.5 of this Stipulation, and references herein to the Class Notice and Administration Fund shall include such
interest. Any unspent funds in the Class Notice and Administration Fund shall be returned to the Settlement Fund. If the costs of notice and administration exceed $5,000,000 any such additional costs and expenses shall be transferred from the
UnitedHealth Settlement Sum to the Notice and Administration Fund. The Class Notice and Administration Fund shall not be used to pay any fees for services provided by Lead Counsel or any of its affiliates. The Escrow Agent shall maintain a record of
all funds disbursed.       

c.   
   Corporate Governance Changes         2.9 No later than
thirty (30) days after the Judgment is entered by the Court, UnitedHealth will implement the corporate governance changes set forth in Exhibit C  
       
   16   

hereto, which changes were the product of substantial and lengthy negotiations between UnitedHealth and Lead Plaintiff, and shall maintain these changes for
a period of no less than five (5) years from the date of implementation. UnitedHealth also acknowledges that the pendency and prosecution of the Litigation, including the demands made in connection therewith, were a contributing factor
underlying the decision of the UnitedHealth Board of Directors to substantially alter and improve the manner in which UnitedHealth is governed by adopting the additional corporate governance changes briefly summarized in Exhibit D hereto, via
modification of UnitedHealth s bylaws and Principles of Governance.       
    3.1 (a) The Settling Parties and the Escrow
Agent shall treat the Settlement Sums as a  Qualified Settlement Fund  for purposes of  468B of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder. The Escrow Agent and the Settling
Parties shall jointly make such elections as are necessary or advisable to carry out the provision of this   3.1, including, without limitation, the  relation-back election  described in Treas. Reg.  1.468B-1(j)(2), which
election shall be made substantially in the form of Exhibit E.      (b) The Escrow Agent shall be the Settlement Sums 
 administrator  as that term is used in Treas. Reg.  1.468B-2(k)(3). As administrator, the Escrow Agent shall timely prepare and file all required Tax returns with respect to the Settlement Sums, including, without limitation, the
returns described in Treas. Reg.   1.468B-2(k)(1) and 1.468B-2(1)(2). From the Settlement Sums, the Escrow Agent shall provide for and  
       
   17   

timely pay all Taxes imposed on the income earned by the Settlement Sums. From the Settlement Sums, the Escrow Agent shall also indemnify and hold each of
the Released Persons harmless for Taxes and Tax Expenses (including, without limitation, Taxes payable by reason of any payment made to or for the benefit of the Class hereunder, and Taxes payable by reason of any such indemnification). Without
limiting the foregoing, from the Settlement Sums, the Escrow Agent shall reimburse Defendants within ten (10) days of written demand for any such Taxes to the extent they are imposed on Defendants for a period during which a Settlement Fund
does not qualify as a  Qualified Settlement Fund,  and for any Tax Expenses incurred by Defendants after the Effective Date of Settlement. Further, Taxes and Tax Expenses shall be treated as, and considered to be, a cost of administration
of the Settlement Fund and shall be timely paid by the Escrow Agent out of the Settlement Fund without prior order from the Court and the Escrow Agent shall be obligated (notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary) to withhold from distribution
to Authorized Claimants any funds necessary to pay such amounts including the establishment of adequate reserves for any Taxes and Tax Expenses (as well as any amounts that may be required to be withheld under Treas. Reg.  1.468B-2(l)(2));
neither the Defendants nor their counsel are responsible nor shall they have any liability therefore. Nothing in this   3.1 or any part of this Stipulation shall constitute or be considered to be tax advice by the Released Persons or any of
their respective counsel. The Parties agree to cooperate with the Escrow Agent, each other, and their tax attorneys and accountants to the extent reasonably necessary to carry out the provisions of this   3.1.         
   18   

(c) For the purpose of this   3.1, references to the Settlement Sums shall include
both the Settlement Fund and the Notice and Administration Fund and shall also include any earnings thereon.      (d) Released
Persons have made no representation or warranty with respect to the tax treatment by any Lead Plaintiff or Class Member of any payment or transfer made pursuant to this Stipulation.       

4.   
   Notice Order and Settlement Hearing         4.1 As soon as
practical following execution of the Stipulation, Lead Counsel shall submit the Stipulation together with its exhibits to the Court and shall apply for entry of an order (the  Notice Order ), substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto,
requesting,  inter alia , Preliminary Settlement Approval, and approval for the mailing of a settlement notice (the  Notice ) and publication of a summary notice, substantially in the forms of Exhibits A1 and A3 attached hereto. The
Notice shall include the general terms of the settlement set forth in the Stipulation, the proposed Plan of Allocation, the general terms of the Fee and Expense Application (as defined below), and the date of the Settlement Hearing (as defined
below). Lead Counsel shall be responsible for providing notice to the Class.      4.2 Lead Counsel shall request that, after notice is given,
the Court hold a hearing (the  Settlement Hearing ) and provide Final Settlement Approval for the Litigation with respect to the Defendants as set forth herein. At or after the Settlement Hearing, Lead Counsel also will request that the
Court approve the proposed Plan of Allocation and the Fee and Expense Application.         
   19   

5.1 Upon the Effective Date, Lead
Plaintiff and each of the Class Members, on behalf of themselves, their affiliates, predecessors, successors, assigns, agents, employees, heirs, executors, administrators and all other persons or entities controlled by, or under common control with,
shall be deemed to have, and by operation of the Judgment shall have: (i) fully, finally, and forever released, relinquished and discharged all Released Claims (including Unknown Claims) against the Released Persons, whether or not such Class
Member executes and delivers the Proof of Claim and Release (as that term is defined in   5.4 hereof), (ii) covenanted not to sue any of the Released Persons or otherwise to assert, directly or indirectly, any of the Released Claims
against any of the Released Persons, and (iii) agreed to be forever barred and enjoined from doing so, in any court of law or equity, or in any other forum. The foregoing release excludes claims for breach of this Stipulation or any agreement
made herein.      5.2 Upon the Effective Date, each of the Released Persons shall be deemed to have fully, finally, and forever released,
relinquished and discharged each and all of the Plaintiffs (except as to any individual or entity who has validly, timely, and completely requested exclusion from the Class), their respective present and former parents, subsidiaries, divisions and
affiliates, the present and former partners, employees, officers and directors of each of them, the present and former attorneys, accountants, insurers, and agents of each of them, each of the foregoing solely in their capacity as such, and the

20   

predecessors, heirs, successors and assigns of each, from all claims of every nature and description, known and unknown, relating to the institution,
prosecution and/or resolution of the Litigation or the Released Claims and, in the case of Dr. McGuire only, notwithstanding the terms of   11.1(b) hereof, the Derivative Actions (excluding any claims for breach of this Stipulation or any
agreement made herein).      5.3 Upon the Effective Date, each of the Released Persons shall be deemed to have fully, finally, and forever
released, relinquished and discharged (a) each and all of the Defendants; (b) their past or present directors, officers, partners, members, employees, controlling shareholders, present and former attorneys, consultants, accountants or
auditors, banks or investment banks, advisors, agents, personal or legal representatives, insurers and reinsurers, predecessors, successors, parents, subsidiaries, divisions, assigns, spouses, heirs, devisees, executors, trustees, administrators, or
related or affiliated entities, any partnership in which a Defendant is a general or limited partner, any entity in which a Defendant has a controlling interest, each of the foregoing solely in their capacity as such; and (c) any member of an
Individual Defendant s immediate family, or any trust or foundation of which any Defendant is the settlor or which is for the benefit of any Individual Defendant and/or member(s) of his or her family, from any claims related to or arising out
of the subject matter of the Released Claims (excluding any claims for breach of this Stipulation or any agreement made or referred to herein). The release in this paragraph does not apply to: (a) Defendants  respective rights and
obligations under this Stipulation; (b) Individual Defendants  rights to advancement for, reimbursement of, or indemnification against defense fees or costs reasonably incurred;  
       
   21   

(c) UnitedHealth s right to seek enforcement of the undertaking provided by the Individual Defendants; or (d) Defendants  respective rights
and obligations under the Defendants MOU. This Stipulation and settlement shall not affect any of Defendants  respective rights and obligations under (a) the agreement entered into among Mr. Lubben, UnitedHealth, Plaintiffs in the
Derivative Actions, and the Special Litigation Committee of the Board of Directors of UnitedHealth in the Derivative Actions, or (b) the agreement entered into among Dr. McGuire, UnitedHealth, Plaintiffs in the Derivative Actions, and the
Special Litigation Committee of the Board of Directors of UnitedHealth in the Derivative Actions, and any agreements affected thereby.      5.4
The Proof of Claim and Release to be executed by Class Members shall release all Released Claims (including Unknown Claims) against the Released Persons and shall be substantially in the form contained in Exhibit A2 attached hereto.       

6.   
   Administration and Calculation of Claims, Final Awards and Supervision and Distribution of Settlement Fund         6.1 The Claims Administrator, subject to such supervision and direction of the Court and/or Lead Counsel as may be necessary or as circumstances may
require, shall administer and calculate the claims submitted by Class Members and shall oversee distribution of the Net Settlement Fund to Authorized Claimants.      6.2 The Settlement Fund shall be applied as follows:      (a) to pay Lead Counsel s
attorneys  fees and expenses with interest thereon (the  Fee and Expense Award ), and to pay Lead Plaintiff s expenses (including lost wages) incurred in representing the Class, in each case if and to the extent allowed by the
Court;         
   22   

(b) to pay all the costs and expenses reasonably and actually incurred in connection with
providing notice to the Class, locating Class Members, soliciting Class claims, assisting with the filing of claims, administering and distributing the Net Settlement Fund to Authorized Claimants, and processing Proof of Claim and Release forms;
     (c) to pay the Taxes and Tax Expenses described in   3.1 hereof; and      (d) to distribute the Net Settlement Fund to Authorized Claimants as allowed by the Stipulation, the Plan of Allocation, and the Court.
     6.3 Upon the Effective Date and thereafter, and in accordance with the terms of the Stipulation, the Plan of Allocation, or such further
approval and further order(s) of the Court as may be necessary or as circumstances may require, the Net Settlement Fund shall be distributed to Authorized Claimants, subject to and in accordance with    6.4 6.9 hereof.      6.4 Within one hundred twenty (120) days after the mailing of the Notice or such other time as may be set by the Court, each Person claiming to be
an Authorized Claimant shall be required to submit to the Claims Administrator a completed Proof of Claim and Release, substantially in the form of Exhibit A2 attached hereto, signed under penalty of perjury and supported by such documents as are
specified in the Proof of Claim and Release and as are reasonably available to the Person claiming to be an Authorized Claimant.         
   23   

6.5 Except as otherwise ordered by the Court, all Class Members who fail timely to submit a Proof of
Claim and Release within such period, or such other period as may be ordered by the Court, or otherwise allowed, shall be forever barred from receiving any payments pursuant to the Stipulation and the settlement set forth herein, but will in all
other respects be subject to and bound by the provisions of the Stipulation, the releases contained herein, and the Judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Lead Counsel may, in their discretion, accept for processing late submitted claims so long
as the distribution of the Net Settlement Fund to Authorized Claimants is not materially delayed. All Class Members whose claims are not approved shall be barred from participating in distributions from the Net Settlement Fund, but will in all other
respects be subject to and bound by the provisions of the Stipulation, the releases contained herein, and the Judgment.      6.6 The Net
Settlement Fund shall be distributed to the Authorized Claimants substantially in accordance with a Plan of Allocation to be described in the Notice and approved by the Court. Lead Counsel agrees to confer with counsel for UnitedHealth prior to
submission of the Plan of Allocation. If any funds remain in the Net Settlement Fund by reason of uncashed checks or otherwise, then, after the Claims Administrator has made reasonable and diligent efforts to have Class Members who are entitled to
participate in the distribution of the Net Settlement Fund cash their distribution checks, any balance remaining in the Net Settlement Fund one (1) year after the initial distribution of such funds shall be re-distributed to Class Members who
have cashed their checks and who would receive at least $10.00 from such re-distribution, after payment of  
       
   24   

any Taxes, and unpaid costs or fees incurred in administering the Net Settlement Fund for such re-distribution. If six months after such re-distribution any
funds shall remain in the Net Settlement Fund, then such balance shall be paid to Minnesota-based non-sectarian, not-for-profit 501(c)(3) organization(s) providing legal services or otherwise in the appropriate public interest designated by Lead
Counsel.      6.7 Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the Released Persons shall have no responsibility for, interest
in, or liability or obligation whatsoever with respect to the administration of the settlement, the investment of the Settlement Fund, the distribution of the Net Settlement Fund, the Plan of Allocation, the determination, administration, or
calculation of claims, the payment or withholding of Taxes, the payment of Tax Expenses, or any losses incurred in connection therewith. The Settlement Account shall hold Dr. McGuire and Mr. Lubben harmless from any such liability.
     6.8 No Person shall have any claim against Lead Counsel or the Claims Administrator, or their counsel, based on distributions made
substantially in accordance with the Stipulation and the settlement contained herein, the Plan of Allocation, or further order(s) of the Court. No Person shall have any claim whatsoever against Defendants, their counsel, or any Released Persons
arising from or related to any distributions made, or not made, from the Settlement Fund, and the Settlement Account shall hold Dr. McGuire and Mr. Lubben harmless from any such liability.         
   25   

6.9 It is understood and agreed by the Parties that any proposed Plan of Allocation of the Net Settlement
Fund, including but not limited to any adjustments to an Authorized Claimant s claim set forth herein, is not a part of the Stipulation and is to be considered by the Court separately from the Court s consideration of the fairness,
reasonableness and adequacy of the settlement set forth in the Stipulation, and any order or proceeding relating to the Plan of Allocation shall not operate to terminate or cancel the Stipulation or affect the finality of the Court s Judgment
approving the Stipulation and the settlement set forth therein, or any other orders entered pursuant to the Stipulation. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Parties acknowledge and agree that it is not a condition of this
Stipulation that the Plan of Allocation be approved.       

7.   
   Lead Counsel s Attorneys  Fees and Reimbursement of Expenses         7.1 Lead Counsel may submit an application or applications (the  Fee and Expense Application ) for distributions to them from the Settlement Fund for an award of attorneys  fees and expenses incurred in
connection with prosecuting the Litigation, plus any interest on such attorneys  fees and expenses at the same rate and for the same periods as earned by the Settlement Fund (until paid). Lead Counsel reserves the right to make additional
applications for fees and expenses incurred. The Lead Plaintiff may submit an application for reimbursement of their expenses incurred in representing the Class in the Litigation.      The Fee and Expense Award (defined in   6.2 hereof) shall be paid to Lead Counsel from the Settlement Fund, as ordered, within three
(3) business days of the entry of the Judgment by the Court, notwithstanding the existence of any timely filed objections thereto, or potential for appeal therefrom, or collateral attack on the Settlement  
       
   26   

or any part thereof, subject to Lead Counsel s joint and several obligations to make appropriate refunds or repayments to the Settlement Fund plus
interest thereon at the same rate as earned by the Settlement Fund, if and when, as the result of any appeal and/or further proceedings on remand, or successful collateral attack, the Fee and Expense Award is reduced or reversed. Lead Counsel shall
make the appropriate refund or repayment, in full, within ten (10) days following any such final reduction of the Fee And Expense Award. The obligation to make appropriate refund or repayment may be enforced by the Court. The Settlement Fund shall
be the sole source of payment of any award of attorneys  fees and expenses to Plaintiffs  counsel. The Parties agree that the denial, in whole or in part, of any application for attorneys  fees and expenses shall in no way affect the
enforceability, validity or finality of the settlement. Lead Counsel shall allocate the attorneys fees  amongst other Plaintiffs  counsel in a manner in which they in good faith believe reflects the contributions of such counsel to the
prosecution and settlement of the Litigation. In the event that (i) the Effective Date does not occur, (ii) the Judgment and/or order making such Fee and Expense Award is finally reversed or modified, (iii) the Stipulation is canceled or terminated
for any reason, or (iv) if the Judgment does not become Final, and in the event that any attorneys  fees, expenses or costs have been paid to any extent, then Lead Counsel shall within ten (10) business days from receiving notice from any
Defendant or from a court of appropriate jurisdiction, refund to the Settlement Fund the fees, expenses and costs previously paid to them from the Settlement Fund in an amount consistent with the event requiring the repayment plus interest thereon
at the same rate as earned by the Settlement Fund. Each Plaintiffs   
       
   27   

counsel s law firm as a condition of receiving such fees and expenses, on behalf of itself and each partner and/or shareholder of it, agrees that the
law firm and its partners and/or shareholders are subject to the jurisdiction of the Court for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this paragraph. Without limitation, each such law firm and its partners and/or shareholders agree that the
Court may, upon application of Lead Plaintiff or any Defendant, summarily issue orders including, without limitation, judgments and attachment orders and may make appropriate findings of or sanctions for contempt, against them or any of them should
such law firm fail timely to repay such fees and expenses.      7.2 The procedure for and the allowance or disallowance by the Court of any Fee
and Expense Application are not part of the settlement set forth in the Stipulation, and are to be considered by the Court separately from the Court s consideration of the fairness, reasonableness and adequacy of the settlement set forth in the
Stipulation, and any order or proceeding relating to the Fee and Expense Application, or any appeal from any order relating thereto or reversal or modification thereof, shall not operate to terminate or cancel the Stipulation, or affect or delay the
finality of the Judgment approving the Stipulation and the settlement of the Litigation set forth therein.      7.3 The Released Persons shall
have no responsibility for the allocation among Plaintiffs  counsel, and/or any other Person who may assert some claim thereto, of any Fee and Expense Award that the Court may make in the Litigation.         
   28   

8.   
   Conditions of Settlement, Effect of Disapproval, Cancellation or Termination         8.1 The Effective Date of the Stipulation shall be the first date by which all of the following events have occurred:      (a) UnitedHealth, Dr. McGuire, and Mr. Lubben have timely made or caused to be made their contributions to the Settlement Fund as required by    2.1, 2.2 and 2.3 hereof;      (b) the Court has entered the Notice Order, as required by   4.1 hereof;      (c) the Court has entered the Judgment, attached hereto as Exhibit B, or a judgment substantially similar in all material respects to the
Judgment attached hereto as Exhibit B;      (d) the Judgment has become Final; and      (e) UnitedHealth has waived or has not timely asserted any right to withdraw from the settlement set forth in the Stipulation as provided
under   8.6 hereof.      Upon the occurrence of all of the events referenced in this paragraph (  8.1), any and all remaining interest or right of
Defendants in or to the Settlement Fund, if any, shall be absolutely and forever extinguished. No order of the Court or modification or reversal on appeal of any order of the Court concerning the Plan of Allocation or the amount of any
attorneys  fees, costs, expenses and interest awarded by the Court to the Lead Plaintiff or any of Plaintiffs  counsel shall constitute grounds for cancellation or termination of the Stipulation.         
   29   

8.2 If any of the conditions specified in    8.1(a), 8.1(b), 8.1(c), and 8.1(d) hereof are not
met and unless Lead Counsel and counsel for each Defendant mutually agree in writing within thirty (30) days of their receipt of notice of any failed condition to proceed with the Stipulation, then (1) the Stipulation shall be canceled and
terminated subject to    8.3, 8.4, and 8.5 hereof; (2) the Parties shall be deemed to have reverted  nunc pro  tunc to their respective status as of June 30, 2008;  provided, however , the PSLRA MOUs and Defendants MOU
shall remain in full force and effect, including but not limited to the termination provisions therein; and (3) the Parties shall otherwise proceed in all respects without prejudice in any way from the negotiation, fact or terms of the
settlement set forth in the Stipulation.      8.3 In the event the Stipulation shall terminate, be canceled, or not become effective for any
reason, within five (5) business days after written notification of such event is sent by counsel for UnitedHealth to the Escrow Agent, the UnitedHealth Settlement Sum, plus accrued interest, and the Class Notice and Administration Fund, plus
accrued interest, shall be refunded to UnitedHealth, less expenses due and owing as set forth in   2.8 hereof;  provided, however , that neither the Lead Plaintiff nor Lead Counsel shall have any obligation to repay any amounts actually
and properly disbursed from the Class Notice and Administration Fund, and that any expenses already incurred and properly chargeable to the Class Notice and Administration Fund pursuant to   2.8 hereof, and Taxes and Tax Expenses accrued and
due at the time of such termination or cancellation, but that have not been paid, shall be paid or retained in escrow by the Escrow Agent in accordance with the terms of the Stipulation prior to the balance being refunded. At the request of
UnitedHealth, the Escrow Agent or its designee shall apply for any tax refund owed on the UnitedHealth Settlement Sum and pay the proceeds to UnitedHealth.         
   30   

8.4 In the event the Stipulation shall terminate, be canceled, or not become effective for any reason,
and to the extent that the McGuire Settlement Sum has been deposited into the Settlement Fund, the McGuire Settlement Sum shall be refunded to Dr. McGuire less the amounts actually incurred for taxes paid or owed on the McGuire Settlement Sum;
 provided, however , that Taxes and Tax Expenses accrued and due at the time of such termination or cancellation, but that have not been paid, shall be paid or retained in escrow by the Escrow Agent in accordance with the terms of the
Stipulation prior to the balance being refunded. At the request of Dr. McGuire, the Escrow Agent or its designee shall apply for any tax refund owed on the McGuire Settlement Sum and pay the proceeds to Dr. McGuire.      8.5 In the event the Stipulation shall terminate, be canceled, or not become effective for any reason, and to the extent that the Lubben Settlement Sum
has been deposited into the Settlement Fund, the Lubben Settlement Sum shall be refunded to Defendant David Lubben less the amounts actually incurred for taxes paid or owed on the Lubben Settlement Sum;  provided, however , that Taxes and Tax
Expenses accrued and due at the time of such termination or cancellation, but that have not been paid, shall be paid or retained in escrow by the Escrow Agent in accordance with the terms of the Stipulation prior to the balance being refunded. At
the request of Mr. Lubben, the Escrow Agent or its designee shall apply for any tax refund owed on the Lubben Settlement Sum and pay the proceeds to Mr. Lubben.       
  
   31   

8.6 UnitedHealth has the right, within twenty (20) calendar days from the expiration of the
opt-out period established by the Court, at its option, to terminate and cancel the settlement set forth in the Stipulation if the Persons who would otherwise be Class Members, but who exclude themselves from the settlement set forth in the
Stipulation in accordance with the terms of the Notice, purchased, acquired or held shares (that would otherwise be entitled to damages) that collectively exceed five (5) percent of the number of damaged shares as estimated in
Plaintiffs  expert opening report. It is expressly understood and agreed that the only Persons who may submit requests for exclusion at this time are Persons who would otherwise be Class Members. The Notice Order attached as Exhibit A provides
that requests for exclusion shall be received by the Claims Administrator fifty (50) calendar days after the Notice (Exhibit A1) and Proof of Claim and Release (Exhibit A2) are initially mailed to the Class Members. Upon receiving any
request(s) for exclusion pursuant to the Notice, the Claims Administrator shall promptly notify Lead Counsel and UnitedHealth s counsel of such request(s) for exclusion. If UnitedHealth elects to terminate and cancel the settlement set forth in
the Stipulation pursuant to this provision, written notice of such election must be provided to Lead Counsel within twenty (20) calendar days from the expiration of the opt-out period established by the Court. In the event UnitedHealth
elects to terminate the settlement set forth in the Stipulation, UnitedHealth may withdraw that election by providing written notice of such withdrawal to Lead Counsel no later than 5:00 P.M. Eastern Time on the  
       
   32   

day prior to the Settlement Hearing, or by such later date as shall be agreed upon in writing between Lead Counsel and UnitedHealth s counsel. Further,
Lead Counsel may, within three (3) calendar days of receipt of a notice of termination (or such longer period as shall be agreed upon in writing between Lead Counsel and UnitedHealth s Counsel), review the validity of any request for
exclusion and may attempt to cause retraction of any request for exclusion. If, within the three (3)-day period (or such longer period agreed upon in writing), Lead Counsel reduces the number of Class Members requesting exclusion from settlement set
forth in this Stipulation such that, in the aggregate, the remaining Class Members requesting exclusion from the settlement set forth in this Stipulation purchased less than five (5) percent of the number of damaged shares as estimated in
Plaintiffs  expert opening report, then any termination of the Stipulation by UnitedHealth shall automatically be deemed to be a nullity. To withdraw a prior request for exclusion from the settlement set forth in this Stipulation, a Class
Member or Lead Counsel must file a written notice with the Court stating that the Person withdraws his, her or its request for exclusion and that the Person will be bound by any Judgment in this Action. If UnitedHealth elects to terminate the
settlement set forth in the Stipulation in accordance with this paragraph and (i) such termination is not withdrawn as set forth in this paragraph or (ii) Lead Counsel does not reduce the number of Class Members requesting exclusion
from the settlement as set forth in this paragraph, then the Stipulation and the settlement set forth therein shall, subject to    8.2, 8.3, 8.4, and 8.5 hereof, become null and void and of no further force and effect;  provided,
however , (i) the Defendants MOU, (ii) the McGuire MOU, and (iii) the Lubben MOU shall remain in full force and effect.         
   33   

9.   
   Preferences, Voidable Transfers, or Fraudulent Transfers         9.1 Each Defendant warrants and represents that he, she or it is not  insolvent  within the meaning of 11 U.S.C.  101(32) as of the time this Stipulation is executed and as of the time the payments are transferred or made as
reflected in this Stipulation. The Parties agree that, with respect to any Defendant, in the event of a final order of a court of competent jurisdiction, not subject to any further proceedings, determining the transfer of the Settlement Fund, or any
portion thereof, by or on behalf of such Defendant to be a preference, voidable transfer, fraudulent transfer or similar transaction under Title 11 of the United States Code (Bankruptcy) or applicable state law and any portion thereof is required to
be refunded and such amount is not promptly deposited in the Settlement Fund by any other Defendant, then, at the election of Lead Counsel, as to such Defendant only, the releases given and the Judgments entered in favor of such Defendant pursuant
to the Stipulation shall be null and void. The releases given and the Judgments entered in favor of other Defendants shall remain in full force and effect.       

10.   
   Limitations On Subsequent Claims         10.1 The Judgment
shall, as a material condition of the settlement, contain the following provision:      In accordance with Section 21D-4(f)(7)(A) of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, 15 U.S.C.   78u-4(f)(7)(A), each of the Released Persons are discharged from all claims for contribution that have been or may hereafter be brought by or on behalf of any Persons based upon,
relating to, or arising out of the Released  
       
   34   

Claims. Accordingly, (i) any and all Persons are permanently barred, enjoined, and restrained from commencing, prosecuting, or asserting any such claim
for contribution against any Released Person based upon, relating to, or arising out of the Released Claims; and (ii) the Released Persons are permanently barred, enjoined, and restrained from commencing, prosecuting, or asserting any claim for
contribution against any Person based upon, relating to, or arising out of the Released Claims ( Reform Act Bar Order ).      Notwithstanding the
foregoing provisions, nothing in the Reform Act Bar Order will bar UnitedHealth from pursuing any rights under any policies of insurance. Inclusion of the Reform Act Bar Order in the Judgment is material to Defendants  decision to participate
in this Stipulation. If the Judgment fails to include the Reform Act Bar Order, or if appellate review of the Reform Act Bar Order is sought and on such review vacated, modified or reversed, then the conditions specified in    8.1(c)
and/or 8.1(d) shall not be met.      10.2 The Judgment shall, as a material condition of the settlement, contain the following provision:
     The Defendants are barred from commencing, prosecuting, or asserting any claim, if any, however styled, whether for indemnification,
contribution, or otherwise and whether arising under state, federal or common law, against the Released Persons based upon, arising out of, or relating to the Released Claims; and the Released Persons are barred from commencing, prosecuting, or
asserting any claim, if any, however styled, whether for indemnification, contribution, or otherwise and whether arising under state, federal or common law, against the Defendants based upon, arising out of, or relating to the Released Claims
( Complete Bar Order ).         
   35   

Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, nothing in the Complete Bar Order will bar UnitedHealth from pursuing any
rights under any policies of insurance. Also, notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, nothing in the Complete Bar Order will bar UnitedHealth, Dr. McGuire or Mr. Lubben from pursuing any claims or rights relating to or provided by the
Defendants MOU. Inclusion of the Complete Bar Order in the Judgment is material to Defendants  decision to participate in this Stipulation. If the Judgment fails to include the Complete Bar Order, or if appellate review of the Complete Bar
Order is sought and on such review vacated, modified or reversed, then the conditions specified in    8.1(c) and/or 8.1(d) shall not be met.      10.3 Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, nothing in the Judgment will bar Defendants from pursuing claims that are independent of the Released Claims against the Released Persons.      10.4 Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, UnitedHealth affirms that it will continue to advance reasonable defense costs, consistent with Minnesota
law, for the Individual Defendants.       

11.   
   Miscellaneous Provisions         11.1 Notwithstanding any
other provision in this Stipulation, including    5.4, 11.1, 11.3, and 11.4, this Stipulation shall not cause the Parties to release the following potential claims between or among themselves:      (a) Claims that arise from or relate to claims asserted by those Persons who request exclusion from the Class in such form and manner, and
within such time, as the Court shall prescribe, and who assert claims that would have been Released Claims under this Stipulation but for the Person s exclusion from the Class;         
   36   

(b) Claims that arise from or relate to claims asserted in the Derivative Actions or
ERISA Action; and      (c) Enforcement of any breach of this Stipulation.      11.2 The Parties (a) acknowledge that it is their intent to consummate this Stipulation, and (b) agree to cooperate to the extent reasonably
necessary to effectuate and implement all terms and conditions of the Stipulation.      11.3 The Parties intend the settlement set forth in the
Stipulation to be a final and complete resolution of all disputes between them with respect to the Litigation. The Stipulation compromises claims that are contested and shall not be deemed an admission by any of the Parties as to the merits of any
claim or defense. The Parties agree that the amount of the Settlement Fund and the other terms of the Stipulation were negotiated in good faith by the Parties, and reflect a settlement that was reached voluntarily after consultation with competent
legal counsel. The Parties reserve their right to rebut, in a manner that any such Party determines to be appropriate, any contention made in any public forum that the Litigation was brought or defended in bad faith or without a reasonable basis.
     11.4 Neither the Stipulation nor the settlement contained therein, nor any act performed or document executed pursuant to or in
furtherance of the Stipulation or the settlement: (a) is or may be deemed to be or may be used as an admission of, or evidence of, the validity of any Released Claim, or of any wrongdoing or liability of the Released Persons or infirmity in any
defenses asserted; or (b) is or may be deemed to be or may be used as an admission of, or evidence of, any fault or omission of any of the Released  
       
   37   

Persons in any civil, criminal or administrative proceeding in any court, administrative agency or other tribunal. Released Persons may file the Stipulation
and/or the Judgment in any action that may be brought against them in order to support a defense or claim based on principles of  res judicata , collateral estoppel, release, good faith settlement, judgment bar or reduction or any other theory
of claim preclusion or issue preclusion or similar defense or claim.      11.5 The Defendants deny any and all wrongdoing of any kind
whatsoever and deny any liability to Lead Plaintiff or the Class Members. The Defendants do not concede any infirmity in the defenses they have asserted in the Litigation, nor are any such defenses waived. It is the intent of Lead Plaintiff and the
Defendants that this Stipulation not be used for any purpose of any kind other than to enforce the provisions of this Stipulation or the provisions of any related agreement, release, or exhibit hereto, or in order to support a defense or claim of
 res judicata , collateral estoppel, accord and satisfaction, release, or other theory of claim or issue preclusion or similar defense or claim. Therefore, pursuant to this Stipulation, as ordered by this Court, and pursuant to Federal Rule of
Evidence 408, any other Federal Rule of Evidence, the rules of evidence of the various states, the rules of evidence followed by any quasi-judicial bodies, including regulatory and self-regulatory organizations, and any other applicable law, rule or
regulation, the Parties agree that the fact of entering into or carrying out this Stipulation, the exhibits hereto, and any negotiations and proceedings related hereto, and the settlement itself, shall not be construed as, offered into evidence as,
or deemed to be evidence of, an admission or concession of liability by or an estoppel against any  
       
   38   

Defendant, or a waiver of any applicable statute of limitations or repose, and shall not be offered by a Party hereto into evidence, or considered, in any
action or proceeding against any Defendant in any judicial, quasi-judicial, administrative agency, regulatory or self-regulatory organization, or other tribunal, or proceeding for any purpose whatsoever, other than to enforce the provisions of this
Stipulation or the provisions of any related agreement, release, or exhibit hereto, or in order to support a defense or claim of  res judicata , collateral estoppel, accord and satisfaction, release or other theory of claim or issue preclusion
or similar defense or claim.      11.6 Notwithstanding the provisions in this Stipulation, based upon the publicly available information at the
time of this Stipulation, Defendants agree that they will not contest that the Litigation was filed in good faith and was not frivolous. The Plaintiffs agree not to assert in any forum that the Litigation was defended by the Defendants in bad faith
or without a reasonable basis. The Parties agree that the Litigation is being settled voluntarily after consultation with competent legal counsel. The Parties agree not to assert any claims of any violation of Rule 11 of the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure relating to the prosecution, defense or settlement of the Litigation and agree not to oppose a finding in the Judgment that during the course of the Litigation, the Parties and their respective counsel at all times complied with the
requirements of Rule 11 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.         
   39   

11.7 The protections afforded by the Confidentiality Order governing the Litigation shall be unaffected
by this Stipulation.      11.8 Notwithstanding any other provision in this Stipulation or the settlement set forth therein, UnitedHealth
retains and does not release any and all rights under any policies of insurance.      11.9 The settlement set forth in the Stipulation is not
conditioned upon settlement or approval of settlement of the Derivative Actions or ERISA Action. The release in this Stipulation expressly states it is not releasing any derivative or ERISA claims.      11.10 The Parties have engaged in substantial arm s length negotiations in an effort to resolve the Litigation, including conducting numerous
meetings and telephone conferences where the terms of the agreements detailed herein were extensively debated and negotiated, at times with the assistance of mediators.      11.11 All of the exhibits to this Stipulation are material and integral parts hereof and are fully incorporated herein by this reference.      11.12 This Stipulation may be amended or modified only by a written instrument signed by or on behalf of all Parties or their respective successors-in-interest.      11.13 This Stipulation, any agreements referenced herein, and the exhibits attached hereto constitute the entire agreement among the Parties relating to
this Litigation and no representations, warranties or inducements have been made to any Party concerning the Stipulation and its exhibits, other than the representations, warranties and covenants contained and memorialized in such documents.
        
   40   

11.14 Lead Counsel, on behalf of the Class, are expressly authorized by the Lead Plaintiff to take all
appropriate action required or permitted to be taken by the Class pursuant to the Stipulation to effectuate its terms and also are expressly authorized to enter into any modifications or amendments to the Stipulation (pursuant to   11.12 above)
on behalf of the Class which they deem appropriate.      11.15 Each counsel or other Person executing the Stipulation or any of its exhibits on
behalf of any Party hereto hereby warrants that such Person has the full authority to do so.      11.16 The Stipulation may be executed in one
or more counterparts. All executed counterparts and each of them shall be deemed to be one and the same instrument. A complete set of original executed counterparts shall be filed with the Court.      11.17 The Stipulation shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the successors and assigns of the Parties.      11.18 The Court shall retain jurisdiction with respect to implementation and enforcement of the terms of this Stipulation, and all parties hereto submit
to the jurisdiction of the Court for purposes of implementing and enforcing the settlement embodied in the Stipulation.      11.19 This
Stipulation and the exhibits hereto shall be considered to have been negotiated, executed and delivered, and to be wholly performed, in the State of Minnesota, and the rights and obligations of the parties to the Stipulation shall be construed and
enforced in accordance with, and governed by, the internal, substantive laws of the State of Minnesota without giving effect to that State s choice-of-law principles.       
  
   41   

11.20 Whenever notice to Lead Plaintiff or Lead Counsel is required to be given pursuant to this
Stipulation, it shall be delivered by both facsimile and federal express to:      Keith Park      Coughlin Stoia Geller Rudman   Robbins LLP      655 W. Broadway, Suite 1900      San Diego, CA 92101-3301      Fax: (619) 231-7423      11.21 Whenever notice to UnitedHealth is required to be given pursuant to this
Stipulation, it shall be delivered by both facsimile and federal express to:      Charles Bachman      O Melveny   Myers LLP      Times
Square Tower      7 Times Square      New
York, New York 10036      Fax: (212) 326-2061      11.22 Whenever notice to other Defendants is required to be given pursuant to this Stipulation, it shall be delivered by both facsimile and federal express to the signatories to this Stipulation or their respective
counsel.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused the Stipulation to be executed, by their duly authorized attorneys, dated as
of November 12, 2008.        

COUGHLIN STOIA GELLER RUDMAN   ROBBINS LLP (on behalf of Plaintiffs California Public Employees  Retirement System and Alaska Plumbing and Pipefitting Industry Pension
Trust and the Class Members)   

By:  
     
  /s/ Michael J. Dowd   

Darren J. Robbins   

Keith Park   

Michael J. Dowd   

Lead Counsel   

42   

O MELVENY   MYERS LLP (on behalf of Defendants UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, Stephen J. Hemsley, Patrick J. Erlandson, Robert J. Sheehy, William A. Munsell, Tracy L.
Bahl, Lois E. Quam, James A. Johnson, Thomas H. Kean, Mary O. Mundinger, William C. Ballard, Douglas W. Leatherdale, Gail R. Wilensky, Richard T. Burke, Donna E. Shalala, and Robert L. Ryan)   

By:  
     
  /s/ Charles E. Bachman   

Charles E. Bachman   

Morrison   Foerster LLP (on behalf of William G. Spears)   

By:  
     
  /s/ Carl H. Loewenson, Jr.   

Carl H. Loewenson, Jr.   

Latham   Watkins LLP (on behalf of Defendant William W. McGuire)   

By:  
     
  /s/ David M. Brodsky   

David M. Brodsky   

Foley   Lardner LLP (on behalf of Defendant David J. Lubben)   

By:  
     
  /s/ Seth L. Levin   

Seth L. Levine   

43   

</EX-99.1>

<EX-99.2>
 29
 dex992.htm
 SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT, DATED AS OF JANUARY 14, 2009

Settlement Agreement, dated as of January 14, 2009 

Exhibit 99.2       SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT      dated as of      JANUARY 14, 2009      by and among      UNITED HEALTHCARE CORPORATION n/k/a UNITEDHEALTH      GROUP, UNITED HEALTHCARE INSURANCE
COMPANY, UNITED      HEALTHCARE INSURANCE COMPANY OF NEW YORK, INC.,      UNITED HEALTHCARE OF THE MIDWEST, INC., UNITED      HEALTHCARE SERVICES, INC., UNITED HEALTHCARE SERVICES
     OF MINNESOTA, INC., UNITED HEALTHCARE SERVICES      CORPORATION, INGENIX, INC., METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE      COMPANY, AMERICAN AIRLINES, INC., OXFORD HEALTH
     PLANS, INC., OXFORD HEALTH PLANS LLC, OXFORD      HEALTH PLANS (NJ), INC., OXFORD HEALTH PLANS (NY), INC., AND      OXFORD HEALTH INSURANCE, TOGETHER WITH EACH OF
THEIR      SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES, AND      SETTLING PLAINTIFFS, THROUGH THEIR RESPECTIVE      COUNSEL   

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT        This settlement agreement (the   Settlement Agreement  ) is made and entered into as of the date set forth on the signature pages hereto
by and through: (a) Counsel for Settling Plaintiffs (on behalf of themselves and each Settlement Class Member as defined in this Settlement Agreement) in  American Medical Association, et al.  v.  United Healthcare Corporation, et al. ,
pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, Master File No. 00-2800 (LMM) (GWG) (the   AMA Action  ),  Oborski  v.  United Healthcare Corporation, et al. , pending in the United States
District Court for the Southern District of New York, Master File. No. 00-7246 (LMM) (the   Oborski Action  ) (the AMA and Oborski Actions are collectively referred to as the   United Healthcare Actions  ), and
 Malchow, et al.  v.  Oxford Health Plans, Inc. et al.  ,  pending in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, Master File No. 08-935 (FSH) (PS) (the   Oxford Action   and (b) Counsel
for Defendants. The United Healthcare Actions and the Oxford Action are collectively referred to herein as the   Actions .  The Parties intend this Settlement Agreement to fully, finally, and forever resolve, discharge, and settle the
Released Claims, as defined herein, and all matters related to the Actions, according to the terms and conditions set forth below. Capitalized terms shall have the meaning defined in Section 2 herein.       
    WHEREAS, on March 15, 2000, the AMA
Action was initiated in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, New York County, Index No. 00-105266, and on April 12, 2000, the AMA Action was removed to the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York;   
  WHEREAS, the Oborski Action was initiated in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York on September 25, 2000;
     WHEREAS, the AMA and Oborski Actions were consolidated on July 27, 2001, under Master File No. 00-2800 (S.D.N.Y.) (LMM) (GWG);
     WHEREAS, Settling Plaintiffs in the United Healthcare Actions filed: (i) a First Amended Complaint on August 25, 2000;
(ii) a Second Amended Complaint on September 22, 2000; (iii) a Third Amended Complaint on January 11, 2002; and (iv) a Fourth Amended Complaint on July 11, 2007 (the   FAC        WHEREAS, in the FAC, Plaintiffs in the United Healthcare Actions asserted the following 19 counts: (i) 11 counts under the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act (  ERISA   (ii) one state claim for breach of contract and the covenant of good faith; (iii) one count under New York State General Business Law Section 349; (iv) three antitrust counts under
Section 1 of the Sherman Act; (v) two counts under the federal civil Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organization Act (  RICO   and (vi) one count under the Florida RICO statute.   

WHEREAS, on September 24, 2007, Defendants in the United Healthcare Actions filed a Motion to
Dismiss All RICO, All Antitrust, and Several ERISA Claims in the FAC (the   Motion to Dismiss the FAC        WHEREAS, on
November 30, 2007, Plaintiffs in the United Healthcare Actions filed an opposition to the Motion to Dismiss the FAC;      WHEREAS, on
January 11, 2008, Defendants in the United Healthcare Actions filed a Reply in Further Support of the Motion to Dismiss the FAC;      WHEREAS, on August 22, 2008, the Honorable Lawrence M. McKenna of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (the   Court  ) issued an order granting in part and denying in part the Motion to
Dismiss the FAC (the   August 22nd Order        WHEREAS, in the August 22nd Order, the Court dismissed the following
claims asserted in the FAC: (i) Plaintiffs  RICO claims  based upon unexhausted requests for reimbursement  (ii) Plaintiffs  RICO claims for declaratory and injunctive Relief under 18 U.S.C. Section 1964;
(iii) the provider Plaintiffs  ERISA unpaid benefits claims; (iv) Plaintiffs   full and fair review  ERISA claims; and (v) the subscriber Plaintiffs  ERISA claims procedure claims;      WHEREAS, in the August 22nd Order, the Court denied Defendants  motion to dismiss Plaintiffs  three antitrust counts under Section 1
of the Sherman Act;      WHEREAS, the Oxford Action was filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey on
February 19, 2008;      WHEREAS, the United Healthcare Actions and the Oxford Action, as set forth more specifically in the respective
complaints, challenge, among other things, the way Defendants pay claims when members of United, Oxford, and Empire health plans receive Covered Out-Of-Network Services or Supplies from Out-Of-Network Providers. Settling Plaintiffs in the Actions
claim, among other things, that Defendants provided inadequate reimbursement to their members for Covered Out-Of-Network Services and Supplies through the use of the Ingenix Databases and Defendants  Out-Of-Network Reimbursement Policies;
     WHEREAS, Defendants deny the material factual allegations and legal claims asserted in the complaints and amended complaints in the
Actions, including without limitation any and all charges of wrongdoing or liability arising out of any of the conduct, statements, acts, or omissions alleged in any of the Complaints filed in the Actions;      WHEREAS, the Company has a desire to: (i) further improve the relationship between the Company and its Plan Members; (ii) further improve the
relationship between the Company, Out-Of-Network Health Care Providers, and medical  
       
   2   

associations; (iii) improve the lives of Plan Members; (iv) facilitate advances in the delivery of health care services to Americans; and
(v) foster better and more efficient communications between the Company, Plan Members, and Out-Of-Network Health Care Providers;      WHEREAS, Defendants assert a number of defenses to the claims asserted in the Actions that Defendants believe are meritorious. Nonetheless, Defendants desire to improve the manner in which they conduct business with Settlement Class Members
and conclude that further proceedings of the Actions would be protracted and expensive, and that it is desirable that the Actions be fully and finally settled in the manner and upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Settlement Agreement
(the   Settlement        WHEREAS, Settling Plaintiffs believe that the claims asserted in the Actions have merit. Settling
Plaintiffs and Settlement Class Counsel recognize and acknowledge, however, the expense and length of continued proceedings that would be necessary to prosecute the Actions against Defendants through trial and appeals;      WHEREAS, Settlement Class Counsel also have taken into account the uncertain outcome and the risk of any class action, especially in complex actions such
as the Actions, as well as the difficulties and delays inherent in such Actions, and Settlement Class Counsel believe that the Settlement set forth in this Settlement Agreement confers substantial benefits upon the Settlement Class Members.
     NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY STIPULATED AND AGREED by and among Settling Plaintiffs, for themselves and all Settlement Class Members, as
defined in this Settlement Agreement, and Defendants, by and through their respective attorneys of record, that, subject to the approval of the Court and the satisfaction of the conditions set forth herein, the Actions and the Released Claims shall
be finally and fully resolved, compromised, discharged, and settled upon and subject to the following terms and conditions:       

2.   
   Definitions         As used in this Settlement Agreement,
the following terms have the meanings specified below:        Actions   means collectively the United Healthcare Actions and the
Oxford Action.        Affiliate   means with respect to any Person, any other Person controlling, controlled by, or under common
control with such first Person. The term  control  (including without limitation, with correlative meaning, the terms  controlled by  and  under common control with ), as used with respect to any Person, means the
possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities or otherwise.         
   3   

Allowed Amount   means the amount determined by the Company to be subject to
reimbursement for a Plan Member s Covered Out-Of-Network Services or Supplies and before the application of co-insurance or deductibles.        Attorneys  Fees   means the funds for attorneys  fees and expenses that may be awarded by the Court to Settlement Class Counsel.        August 22nd Order   shall mean the order by the Honorable Lawrence M. McKenna of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, dated August 22, 2008, granting in part
and denying in part the Motion to Dismiss the FAC in the United Healthcare Actions.        AWP   means Average Wholesale Price.
       Bar Order   shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 18.1 of this Settlement Agreement.        Benchmarking Standard   means the standard set forth in a Plan Member s Plan or other coverage document that governs the amount of
reimbursement to be made for Out-Of-Network Benefits at less than billed charges (e.g.,  reasonable and customary,   usual, customary and reasonable,   average,   prevailing,   maximum allowable
fee ).        Business Day   means any day on which commercial banks are open for business in New York City.        Cash Settlement Fund   shall have the meaning assigned to that term in Section 3 of this Settlement Agreement.        Claims Administrator   means the firm designated by Settlement Class Counsel and approved by the Court to administer the Settlement
Class and settlement notice to administer the Plan of Allocation of the Cash Settlement Fund.        Company   means
UnitedHealth Group, Inc. and each and every one of its affiliates.        Counterclaim   shall have the meaning assigned to that
term in Section 16.4 of this Settlement Agreement.        Court   shall mean the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York.        Covered Out-Of-Network Service or Supply   means those health care services and supplies
for which a Plan Member is entitled to receive coverage under the terms and conditions of his or her Plan when delivered outside of the Plan Member s participating provider network as such network is defined under the terms and conditions of
such Plan.         
   4   

Date  or  Day   refers, except where otherwise defined, to a calendar day,
unless the calendar day is a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday, in which case the Date or Day shall mean the next Business Day after such calendar day.        Defendants   mean United HealthCare Corporation, n/k/a UnitedHealth Group ( UHG ), United HealthCare Insurance Company, United HealthCare Insurance Company of New York, Inc., United
HealthCare of the Midwest, Inc., United HealthCare Services, Inc., United HealthCare Services of Minnesota, Inc., United HealthCare Services Corporation, Ingenix, Inc. ( Ingenix ), Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, American Airlines,
Inc., Oxford Health Plans, Inc., Oxford Health Plans LLC, Oxford Health Plans (NJ), Inc., Oxford Health Plans (NY), Inc., and Oxford Health Insurance, together with each of their predecessors, successors (including, without limitation, an acquirer
of all or substantially all of any of a Defendant s stock or assets), and assigns as well as the past, present, and future, direct and indirect, parents (including, but not limited to, holding companies), subsidiaries, and affiliates of any of
the above.        Effective Date   shall have the meaning assigned to that term in Section 18.3 of this Settlement
Agreement.        Escrow Agent   shall have the meaning assigned to that term in Section 3 of this Settlement Agreement.
       Escrow Agreement   shall have the meaning assigned to that term in Section 3 of this Settlement Agreement.
       Execution Date   means the later of: (i) the date on which the signature of the last Defendant has been delivered to
Settlement Class Counsel; or (ii) the date on which the signature of the last Settling Plaintiff or Settlement Class Counsel has been delivered to Defendants.        Facility   means any in-patient or out-patient hospital or facility, including any surgical hospital or ambulatory surgery center.        Final Order and Judgment   means the order and form of judgment approving this Settlement Agreement and dismissing the United Healthcare
Actions, including all released claims and released counterclaims, with prejudice, substantially in the form annexed hereto as Exhibit 2.        FAC   means the Fourth Amended Complaint filed on July 11, 2007 in the United Healthcare Actions.        Final Order and Judgment Date   means the date the Final Order and Judgment is entered by the Court.         
   5   

Final Settlement Hearing   means the hearing at which the Court shall consider and
determine whether to enter the Final Order and Judgment substantially in the form annexed hereto as Exhibit 2.        Final Settlement
Hearing Date   shall have the meaning assigned to that term in Section 14 of this Settlement Agreement.        Fully-Insured Plan   means a Plan as to which the Company, as opposed to the subscriber or Plan sponsor, assumes all or substantially all of the health care cost and the Company s coverage product is approved as the
product of a licensed insurer or Health Maintenance Organization under state law.        Funding Date   shall have the meaning
assigned to that term in Section 3 of this Settlement Agreement.        Healthcare Information Transparency Website   or
  HIT Website   shall have the meaning assigned to that term in Section 4.7 of this Settlement Agreement.        Ingenix Databases   means the PHCS and/or the MDR Database.        Joint Insurer-Provider Institute  
shall have the meaning assigned to that term in Section 3.2 of this Settlement Agreement.        Mailed Notice   means the
form of notice in substantially in the form annexed hereto as Exhibit 3.        MDR Database   means the MDR Payment System.
       Motion to Dismiss the FAC   shall have the meaning assigned to that term in the preamble to this Settlement Agreement.
       New Database   shall have the meaning assigned to that term in Section 4.1 of this Settlement Agreement.   
    Non-Party Carriers   means any insurer or insurer s vendor other than Defendants, which provided coverage and services related
to health care benefits, including, but not limited to: Liberty Mutual Insurance Company, The Principal Financial Group, The Guardian Life Insurance Company of America, CNA Insurance Companies, Allianz Life Insurance Company of North America, Home
Life Financial Assurance Corporation, NYL Care Health Plans Inc., The Great-West Life Assurance Company, John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company, Employers Insurance of Wausau, General American Life Insurance Company, Transamerica Insurance
Company, Mutual of Omaha Insurance Company, State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company, Aetna, Inc., CIGNA Corporation, Empire BlueCross BlueShield, Humana, Inc., Group Health Insurance, Inc., Health Insurance Plan of New York, and Health Net,
Inc., together with each of their predecessors, successors (including, without limitation, acquirers of all or substantially all of any of the Non-Party Carriers  stock or assets), and  
       
   6   

assigns; the past, present, and future, direct and indirect, parents (including, but not limited to, holding companies), subsidiaries, and affiliates of any
of the above; and the past, present, and future principals, trustees, partners, officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys, shareholders, advisors, assigns, representatives, heirs, executors, and administrators of any of the above.
       Non-Party Carriers  Released Claims   means any and all manner of claims, actions, causes of action, arbitrations,
damages, debts, demands, duties, judgments, liabilities, losses, obligations, penalties, liquidated damages, proceedings, agreements, promises, controversies, costs, expenses, attorneys  fees, and suits of every nature and description
whatsoever, whether based on federal, state, provincial, local, foreign, statutory, or common law or any other law, rule, or regulation, in the United States, whether fixed or contingent, accrued or unaccrued, liquidated or unliquidated, at law or
in equity, matured or unmatured, known or unknown, foreseen or unforeseen, whether class or individual in nature, that each Settling Plaintiff and each Settlement Class Member, or any of them, ever had, now have, can have, shall or may hereafter
have, or that have been or could have been asserted by Settling Plaintiffs or Settlement Class Members, directly or derivatively, in the Actions, or any other forum, through and including the Final Order and Judgment Date, based on, by reason of,
arising from, in connection with, or in any way relating to the Company s determination, computation, payment, nonpayment, adjustment, or limitation of Out-Of-Network Benefits using the Ingenix Databases or any of Defendants 
Out-Of-Network Reimbursement Policies, or to the conduct, events, facts, transactions, occurrences, acts, representations, omissions, or other matters set forth, alleged, embraced, or otherwise referred to or alleged in the Actions, including, but
not limited to: (i) any antitrust, ERISA, RICO, or other conspiracy claims; and (ii) any references or allegations concerning the creation, ownership, marketing, and licensing of the Ingenix Databases by any Released Person.
Notwithstanding the above or the definition of Released Claims, it is expressly understood that no claims against Non-Party Carriers (including, but not limited to, any antitrust, ERISA, RICO or other conspiracy claims) arising from, in connection
with, or in any way relating to Non-Party Carriers  determination, computation, payment, nonpayment, adjustment, or limitation of Out-Of-Network Benefits using the Ingenix Databases or otherwise, are being released.        Notice Date   shall have the meaning assigned to that term in Section 14.1 of this Settlement Agreement.        OAG   means the Office of the Attorney General of the State of New York.        OAG Assurance of Discontinuance   shall refer to the assurance of discontinuance entered into between the OAG and the Company.
       Objection Date   shall have the meaning assigned to that term in Section 14 of this Settlement Agreement.
       Opt-Out   shall have the meaning assigned to that term in Section 14.1 of this Settlement Agreement.         
   7   

Opt-Out Deadline   shall have the meaning assigned to that term in Section 14.1 of
this Settlement Agreement.        Out-Of-Network Benefit   means the coverage provided for Covered Out-Of-Network Services or
Supplies under the terms and conditions of a Plan Member s Plan.        Out-Of-Network Health Care Provider   means any
health care professional, including, but not limited to, any Physician, podiatrist, chiropractor, orthodontist, psychologist, psychiatrist, physical or occupational therapist, acupuncturist, laboratory technician, optometrist, social worker, nurse,
nurse midwife, nurse practitioner, nurse anesthetist, nutritionist, orthotist, prosthetist, audiologist, and speech or hearing specialist, who provides Covered Out-Of-Network Services or Supplies to patients.        Out-Of-Network Health Care Provider Group   shall mean a corporation, partnership, or other distinct legal entity through which an
Out-Of-Network Health Care Provider delivers or bills for Covered Out-Of-Network Services or Supplies. A Facility shall be considered to be an Out-Of-Network Health Care Provider Group only when it bills for Covered Out-Of-Network Services or
Supplies delivered by an Out-Of-Network Health Care Provider, and only to the extent of such a claim.        Out-Of-Network
Reimbursement Policies   means Defendants  reimbursement policies affecting Out-Of-Network Allowed Amounts and shall include, but are not limited to, the following reimbursement policies affecting Out-Of-Network Allowed Amounts: Policy
Calling for Use of AWP as Measure of Reimbursement for Physician-Administered Drugs, Assistant Surgeon Policy, Co-Surgeon/Team Surgeon Policy, Multiple Procedure Policy, Preventive Medicine, Pro/Tech Policy, Radiology Multiple Imaging Reduction,
Reduced Service Policy, Unusual Services Policy, and Anesthesia Policies. The Parties understand that this Settlement Agreement does not affect any claims that may exist concerning in-network benefits, even if such claims may involve the same
policies that affect both in-network and Out-Of-Network Benefits.        Parties   means Settling Plaintiffs and Defendants.
       Person   and   Persons   means all persons and entities, including, without limitation, any and all
natural persons, firms, corporations, Subsidiaries, Affiliates, members, shareholders, parents, directors, officers, employees, professional corporations, agents, administrators, executors, legal representatives, partners and partnerships, trustees,
limited liability companies, joint ventures, contracted agents, joint stock companies, unincorporated organizations, agencies, bodies, governments, political subdivisions, governmental agencies and authorities, associations, partnerships, limited
liability partnerships, trusts, fiduciaries, and, in the case of Persons who were or are incapacitated or minors, their parents, natural and/or legal guardians, conservators, attorneys-in-fact, or other legal representatives, and their predecessors,
successors, administrators, executors, heirs, and assigns.        PHCS Database   means the Prevailing Healthcare Charges System
database.         
   8   

Physician   means an individual licensed by a state medical licensing board who holds
either an allopathic or osteopathic medical degree.        Plan of Allocation     means the Plan of Allocation
substantially in the form annexed hereto as Exhibit 5, which establishes how the Cash Settlement Fund shall be allocated among Settlement Class Members.          Plan     means the document(s) that sets forth the terms and conditions of a Plan Member s health care benefits, including, for example, the Plan Member s Summary Plan
Description, Certificate of Coverage, or other applicable coverage document.        Plan Member   means an individual enrolled
in or covered by a Plan offered or administered by Defendants.        Preliminary Approval Date   means the date the Preliminary
Approval Order is entered by the Court.        Preliminary Approval Hearing   means the hearing at which the Court shall
consider and determine whether to enter the Preliminary Approval Order substantially in the form annexed hereto as Exhibit 1.        Preliminary Approval Order   means the Preliminary Approval Order, substantially in the form annexed hereto as Exhibit 1.        Published Notice   means the form of notice substantially in the form annexed hereto as Exhibit 4.        Releasors   shall have the meaning assigned to that term in Section 16.1 of this Settlement Agreement.        Released Claims   means any and all manner of claims, actions, causes of action, arbitrations, damages, debts, demands, duties, judgments, liabilities, losses, obligations, penalties, liquidated damages, proceedings,
agreements, promises, controversies, costs, expenses, attorneys  fees, and suits of every nature and description whatsoever, whether based on federal, state, provincial, local, foreign, statutory, or common law or any other law, rule, or
regulation, in the United States, whether fixed or contingent, accrued or unaccrued, liquidated or unliquidated, at law or in equity, matured or unmatured, known or unknown, foreseen or unforeseen, whether class or individual in nature, that each
Settling Plaintiff and each Settlement Class Member, or any of them, ever had, now have, can have, shall or may hereafter have, or that have been or could have been asserted by Settling Plaintiffs or members of the Settlement Class, directly or
derivatively, in the Actions, or any other forum, through and including the Final Order and Judgment Date, based on, by reason of, arising from, in connection with, or in any way relating to: (a) Defendants  determination, computation,
payment, nonpayment, adjustment, or limitation of Out-Of-Network Benefits using the Ingenix Databases or any of Defendants  Out-Of-Network Reimbursement Policies; (b) the conduct, events, facts,  
       
   9   

transactions, occurrences, acts, representations, omissions, or other matters set forth, alleged, embraced, or otherwise referred to or alleged in the
Actions, including, but not limited to, any references or allegations concerning the use, creation, ownership, marketing, and licensing of the Ingenix Databases by any Released Person; and (c) Defendants  participation in, or connection
to, any Non-Party Carrier s determination, computation, payment, nonpayment, adjustment, or limitation of Out-Of-Network Benefits using the Ingenix Databases. The Parties do not intend to release, and this definition of Released Claims
excludes, causes of action unrelated to the Ingenix Databases or the Out-Of-Network Reimbursement Policies, including, but not limited to, any such causes of action unrelated to the Ingenix Databases or the Out-Of-Network Reimbursement Policies
that: (i) challenge the processing of claim lines on which a discount is taken under an arrangement with MultiPlan or a rental network; or (ii) are alleged in the following actions:  Fairfield Co. Med. Ass n  v.  CIGNA, et
al. , Civ. No. 07-5007159 (Conn. Sup. Ct.);  Austrian  v.  United Healthgroup, Inc. , Civ. No. 06-40103575 (Conn. Sup. Ct.);  Brook  v.  United HealthGroup, Inc. , Civ. No. 06-12954 (S.D.N.Y.);  North Carolina
Med. Soc y  v.  UnitedHealthGroup, et al. , Civ. No. 04-22165 (S.D. Fla.);  Borrero  v.  United Healthcare of New York, Inc. , Civ. No. 02-20080 (S.D. Fla.);  Med. Soc y of the State of New York  v.
 United HealthCare of New York, Inc. , Civ. No. 02-20079 (S.D. Fla.);  Rosenberg  v.  United HealthGroup Inc. , Civ. No. 02-22487 (S.D. Fla.);  Tennessee Med. Ass n  v.  United HealthGroup, Inc. , Civ.
No. 02-22486 (S.D. Fla.);  Connecticut State Med. Soc y  v.  United Healthcare Ins. Co. , Civ. No. 01-04731 (S.D. Fla.);  Cooper, et al.  v.  Aetna Health Inc. Pa. Corp., et al. , Civ. No. 07-03541 (D.N.J.);
 Franco  v.  CIGNA Corp. et al. , Civ. No. 07-06039 (D.N.J.);  Jamaica Hospital Medical Center, Inc.  v.  UnitedHealth Group, Inc., et al. , Civ. No. 08-102740 (Sup. Ct. N.Y.);  Laugel  v.  United Healthcare ,
Civ. No. 01-04730 (S.D. Fla.);  Harrison  v.  United HealthCare of Georgia, Inc., et al. , Civ. No. 01-00079 (S.D. Fla.);  United Healthcare of California, Inc.  v.  Klay , AAA Case No. 74 193 00824 01 NOCA;
 United Healthcare of California, Inc.  v.  Taleisnik , AAA Case No. 80-193-00158-01 02 VIAM-C;  United Healthcare of California, Inc.  v.  Taleisnik , AAA Case No. 80-193-00159-01 02 VIAM-C;  United HealthCare of
Kentucky, Ltd.  v.  Shane , AAA Case No. 39 193 00081 01;  Scher  v.  Oxford Health Plans, Inc. , AAA Case No. 11 193 00548 05; and  Medical Advantage Co.  v.  United Healthcare of Louisiana, Inc. , AAA Case
No. 11 193 02565 06.        Released Persons   means: (a) Defendants, their heirs, executors, administrators,
successors, and assigns, and any persons they represent, and each of their agents (including but not limited to any investment managers and advisors), representatives, officers, directors, executives, members, partners, participants, shareholders,
investors, principals, employees, trustees, assigns, and attorneys of each of them to the extent those entities or individuals acted on behalf of any Defendant; (b) any third parties contracted to provide services or products to Defendants in
connection with the processing of out-of-network claims for health care services, or with the computation of Out-Of-Network Benefits; and (c) any third-party health benefit plans (including, without limitation, any Self-Funded Plans), whether
sponsored by employers or other organizations, whose benefits were insured or administered by any Defendant.         
   10   

School   shall have the meaning assigned to that term in Section 4.1 of this
Settlement Agreement.        Self-Funded Plan   means any health care program in which employers fund benefit plans from their
own resources.        Settlement   shall have the meaning assigned to that term in the preamble to this Settlement Agreement.
       Settlement Agreement   shall have the meaning assigned to that term in the preamble of this Settlement Agreement,
together with all exhibits attached to this Settlement Agreement.        Settlement Account   shall have the meaning assigned to
that term in Section 3 of this Settlement Agreement.        Settlement Class   means: (i) all Persons whose health
care benefits were insured or administered by any Defendant who, at any time from March 15, 1994 through the Preliminary Approval Date, received out-of-network health care benefits that were processed or reimbursed by such Defendant using the
Ingenix Databases or any of Defendants  Out-Of-Network Reimbursement Policies; and (ii) all Out-Of-Network Health Care Providers and Out-Of-Network Health Care Provider Groups who provided Covered Out-Of-Network Services or Supplies to
Persons whose health care benefits were insured or administered by any Defendant at any time from March 15, 1994 through the Preliminary Approval Date, and whose resulting claims were processed or reimbursed by such Defendant using the Ingenix
Databases or any of Defendants  Out-Of-Network Reimbursement Policies.        Settlement Class Counsel   means those
attorneys identified as such in Section 12 of this Settlement Agreement.        Settlement Class Member   means any Person
who is a member of the Settlement Class and who does not validly and timely Opt-Out.        Settlement Class Period   means the
period between and including March 15, 1994 and the Preliminary Approval Date.        Settling Plaintiffs     means
the settling plaintiffs in the Actions, to wit: the American Medical Association (  AMA    ), the Medical Society of the State of New York (  MSSNY    ), the Missouri State Medical Association
(  MSMA    ), Helene Coull, Cynthia Falk, Mary Gilmartin, Michael Graham, Susie Graham, Joan Lawrence, Thomas Lawrence, Senator Toby Ann Stavisky, Janet Stravitz, Eliezer Gewirtzman, Peter Oborski, David Befeler, M.D., Darrick E.
Antell, M.D., FACS, David A. Ditsworth, M.D., the Civil Service Employees Association, New York State Police Investigators Association, New York State United Teachers, and the Organization of New York State Management/Confidential Employees.
        
   11   

Subsidiary   means any entity of which securities or other ownership interests having
ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other persons performing similar functions are, as of either the Preliminary Approval Date, the Final Order and Judgment Date, or the Effective Date, directly or indirectly owned
by Defendants, but only so long as such securities or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other persons performing similar functions are, directly or indirectly, held by Defendants.
       Summary Plan Description   or   SPD   means any document describing a Plan Member s rights, benefits,
and responsibilities under the Plan Member s Plan or similar comprehensive disclosure document setting forth a Plan Member s health care benefits that is intended to satisfy a statutory or regulatory requirement to provide a disclosure
statement under the insurance or managed care laws of the applicable jurisdiction.        Taxes   shall have the meaning
assigned to that term in Section 15.5 of this Settlement Agreement.        Tax Expenses   shall have the meaning assigned
to that term in Section 15.5 of this Settlement Agreement.        Termination Date   shall have the meaning assigned to
that term in Section 19 of this Settlement Agreement.        United Defendants   means UHG, United HealthCare Insurance
Company, United HealthCare Insurance Company of New York, Inc., United HealthCare of the Midwest, Inc., United HealthCare Services, Inc., United HealthCare Services of Minnesota, Inc., United HealthCare Services Corporation, Ingenix, Metropolitan
Life Insurance Company, Oxford Health Plans, Inc., Oxford Health Plans LLC, Oxford Health Plans (NJ), Inc., Oxford Health Plans (NY), Inc., and Oxford Health Insurance, together with each of their predecessors, successors (including, without
limitation, an acquirer of all or substantially all of any of a Defendant s stock or assets), and assigns as well as the past, present, and future, direct and indirect, parents (including, but not limited to, holding companies), subsidiaries,
and affiliates of any of the above.       

3.   
   The Cash Settlement Fund         The consideration
supporting this Settlement Agreement shall include the establishment of a Three Hundred and Fifty Million Dollar ($350,000,000) cash settlement fund (the   Cash Settlement Fund  ). Settlement Class Members shall be eligible to receive
compensation from the Cash Settlement Fund, less costs of administration and attorneys  fees and expenses in accordance with this Settlement Agreement. The Company shall fund the Cash Settlement Fund within ten (10) business days following
the Final Order and Judgment Date (the   Funding Date  ) by depositing or wiring the Cash Settlement Fund into an interest-bearing escrow account (the   Settlement Account  ), less amounts advanced by the Company to the
Claims Administrator for the costs of the Mailed Notice and Published Notice and claims  
       
   12   

administration, as outlined in Sections 11 and 15.2, respectively. If the Funding Date does not occur by May 1, 2009, the Company also shall pay on the
Funding Date interest that shall accrue on the current balance of the Cash Settlement Fund based on the average daily Prime Rate (using rates published in the  Wall Street Journal ) beginning on May 1, 2009 and ending the day before the
Funding Date. All interest that shall accrue in the Cash Settlement Fund shall inure to the benefit of the Settlement Class, unless this Settlement Agreement is properly terminated as permitted under the terms of this Settlement Agreement. The
escrow agent for the Settlement Account shall be designated by Settlement Class Counsel and consented to by Defendants, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld (the   Escrow Agent  ). Subject to the provisions of
Section 15.1, the cost of the Escrow Agent, together with any tax and all other administrative expenses associated with the Settlement Account and its operation, shall be paid solely out of the Settlement Account. The Settlement Account shall
be administered in the manner set forth in the Escrow Agreement to be jointly drafted by the Parties (the   Escrow Agreement  ). The Escrow Agent shall hold and administer the Settlement Account, including making all disbursements
from the Settlement Account, in accordance with this Section and/or requested by Settlement Class Counsel. If this Settlement Agreement does not become effective or is terminated pursuant to the circumstances set forth in Sections 18.2 and 18.4 of
this Settlement Agreement, the Cash Settlement Fund (including any accrued interest) shall be returned to Defendants, less the costs incurred by the Claims Administrator prior to the Effective Date.       3.1 Plan Of Allocation       The Plan of
Allocation shall be described in the Notice and will be in substantially in the form as annexed hereto as Exhibit 5, but is not deemed to be part of this Settlement Agreement. The Parties expressly agree that any change, modification, or alteration
in the Plan of Allocation by the Court shall not be grounds for termination of this Settlement Agreement.       3.2 Joint Insurer-Provider
Institute       The Escrow Agent shall pay up to a maximum of Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000) to a Joint Insurer-Provider Institute
from interest accruing on the Cash Settlement Fund. The Joint Insurer-Provider Institute shall be used by the Company and the AMA to facilitate cooperation between private sector healthcare insurers and healthcare providers in the delivery of
patient healthcare.       3.3 Remainder Of The Cash Settlement Fund       Any net amount remaining in the Settlement Account following the distribution set forth in this Settlement Agreement, including amounts for checks that
are returned uncashed, shall be subject to a secondary distribution to Settlement Class Members. The Parties shall confer concerning the type of secondary distribution to be made and jointly shall seek approval of the Court for such distribution.
Settlement funds remaining after distribution to the Settlement Class in an amount that the Court  
       
   13   

determines is economically impracticable to distribute shall be donated to one or more non-profit health-related organizations that are: (i) designated
by Settlement Class Counsel; (ii) consented to by Defendants (whose consent shall not be unreasonably withheld); and (iii) approved by the Court.       

4.   
   Settlement Consideration: Business Practice Initiatives          4.1  This Settlement shall be conditioned on the Company entering into an OAG Assurance of Discontinuance, pursuant to which a qualified, independent university-level school of public health or other appropriate school in New York
(the   School  ) will be selected to establish and operate an independent database (the   New Database  ). Consistent with the terms of the OAG Assurance of Discontinuance, the New Database shall be used for academic
research and as a tool for determining Allowed Amounts for Covered Out-Of-Network Services or Supplies. In the event that the School selected to operate the New Database is other than Syracuse University or an affiliate, this Settlement is
conditioned on Settlement Class Counsel s completion of due diligence on the selected School.       4.2  Consistent with the terms of
the OAG Assurance of Discontinuance, the Company shall agree to contribute Fifty Million Dollars ($50,000,000) toward the funding of the development and implementation of the New Database. Other terms concerning the creation, funding, operation,
management, and control of the New Database shall be contained in the OAG Assurance of Discontinuance, and shall be specified further in a separate agreement to be entered into between the OAG and the School.       4.3  Consistent with the terms of the OAG Assurance of Discontinuance, the Company shall provide the School with: (i) all requested data for
all available years and all methodologies; (ii) computer programs used to accept and analyze the data; and (iii) the code forensics relating to the Ingenix Databases reasonably necessary to establish and operate the New Database. The
Company shall cooperate fully with the School and render all requested information and assistance, technical and otherwise, including any requested measures with respect to existing data reasonably necessary to establish and operate the New
Database.       4.4  Consistent with the terms of the OAG Assurance of Discontinuance, within sixty (60) days of the first release of
the New Database, the Company shall cease operating and using the Ingenix Databases to determine Allowed Amounts for Covered Out-Of-Network Services or Supplies, and instead shall use the New Database as the basis for determining Allowed Amounts for
Covered Out-Of-Network Services or Supplies under certain health care benefit plans or arrangements insured or administered by the Company, to the extent that the plans or arrangements at issue require payment for Covered Out-Of-Network Services or
Supplies based on the  usual, customary and reasonable  charges or similar language (including but not limited to  reasonable and customary,   average,  or  prevailing  charges) for such services or supplies.
Nothing in this Section otherwise shall preclude the Company s application of the Out-Of-Network  
       
   14   

Reimbursement Policies to Covered Out-of-Network Services or Supplies. Further, nothing in this Settlement Agreement shall be construed to limit the
authority of the Company or any sponsor of any health care benefit plan or arrangement administered by the Company: (a) to adopt, amend, change, or terminate any Benchmarking Standard used or to be used in any employee benefit plan or
arrangement; (b) to use any particular Benchmarking Standard such as  usual and customary  or  prevailing,  or to use a Benchmarking Standard not based on provider charge databases; or (c) to the extent the Company uses
the New Database in making Out-Of-Network benefit determinations, to choose the percentile of any New Database as satisfying any health care benefit plan s Benchmarking Standard, including, but not limited to,  reasonable and
customary,   usual, customary and reasonable,  or  usual and prevailing.  Furthermore, to the extent the Company uses the New Database in making Out-Of-Network benefit determinations, nothing in this Section shall be
construed to require the Company to use modules or any aspect of the New Database as satisfying any health care benefit plan s Benchmarking Standard, including, but not limited to,  reasonable and customary,   usual, customary
and reasonable,  or  usual and prevailing,  when the Company did not use the corresponding modules or other corresponding aspect of the Ingenix Database at the time of entering into this Settlement Agreement. Furthermore, to the
extent that the Company currently uses AWP or similar pricing indices as a pricing index for determining the reimbursement amount for out-of-network physician-administered drugs for its Fully-Insured Plans with an out-of-network component, and the
applicable Certificates of Coverage provide that the determination of reimbursement amounts for health care services or supplies is the amount determined to be the  usual, customary or reasonable  amount (or similar language such as
 reasonable and customary  or  usual and prevailing ), the Company will make reasonable efforts either to: (i) amend such Certificates of Coverage to provide that reimbursement of such physician-administered drugs will be
based upon a different standard; or (ii) provide disclosures intended to apprise consumers as to the resource to be used in determining reimbursement of such physician-administered drugs.       4.5  Consistent with the terms of the OAG Assurance of Discontinuance, the Company shall contribute to the New Database all claims data in the form
and manner requested by the School for a period of five (5) years from the date of the first release of the New Database. During the five-year period, the Company shall not be required to pay a fee for the Company s use of the New Database
as a tool for determining Allowed Amounts for Covered Out-Of-Network Services or Supplies.       4.6  Consistent with the terms of the OAG
Assurance of Discontinuance, during the five-year period from the date of the first release of the New Database, the Company shall not own, operate, or fund another database product that provides data pooled from more than one health insurer to
other health insurers for use as a tool to make Out-Of-Network reimbursement determinations in competition with the New Database. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may continue to develop and market its customized fee analyzer product or
other database products that are not marketed to health insurers as a tool for Out-Of-Network reimbursement determinations.         
   15   

4.7  Consistent with the OAG Assurance of Discontinuance, the Company shall coordinate with the
School to create a website (the   Healthcare Information Transparency Website   or   HIT Website  ) accessible to the public. The HIT Website will include a search function that permits users to select common medical
services and the zip codes for the areas where the services are sought. The search result will indicate clearly the charge amount at a stated percentile in a given geographic area, or a range of charges, from the New Database. With the search
result, the HIT Website will remind consumers who access the website that their insurers or third-party administrators determine reimbursement amounts by reference to the applicable benefit plan document, and that the plan s sponsor or claims
fiduciary may administer such benefit plan by applying a predetermined percentile of the New Database, various reimbursement policies, co-insurance, and deductibles in determining the actual reimbursement amount, or may determine reimbursement
amounts using a mechanism other than the New Database or other databases of provider charges. The HIT Website will advise consumers to refer to applicable benefit plan documents or the consumer s plan administrator or insurer for further
information regarding the consumer s individual plan. With the search result, the HIT Website also will remind consumers that they may be financially responsible for the balance of their providers  charges that exceed the amounts paid by
their insurance or health care benefit plans. The HIT Website also will describe in a transparent manner the purpose of the website, the search function, and how a health care benefit plan s reimbursement rate standard or other benchmark for
determining Allowed Amounts for Covered Out-Of-Network Services or Supplies may impact consumers  out-of-pocket costs.       4.8 
Consistent with the OAG Assurance of Discontinuance, the Company shall provide additional information to its members on an internal website portal accessible to the Company s members, which shall describe the New Database and the Company s
method of determining Allowed Amounts for Covered Out-Of-Network Services or Supplies. The Company shall disclose to its members on its internal website any transitional use of the Ingenix Databases, including the fact that Ingenix is a wholly-owned
subsidiary of UnitedHealth Group, Inc. The Company also shall revise, as applicable, its benefit plan documents and disclosures to members, or in a separate writing to members, to describe clearly and accurately its Out-Of-Network Reimbursement
Policies and to disclose any transitional use of the Ingenix Databases, including the fact that Ingenix is a wholly-owned subsidiary of UnitedHealth Group, Inc.       4.9  Consistent with the OAG Assurance of Discontinuance, the Company, Settling Plaintiffs, and Settlement Class Counsel shall not object if the School: (i) requests that one or more of the Settling
Plaintiffs sit on an advisory board that the School, in its sole discretion, establishes in connection with the New Database, or (ii) elects to pay an honorarium to any Settling Plaintiff to sit on any such board.         
   16   

5.   
   Transition Efforts And Interim Phase         Until the New
Database is available, Defendants may process out-of-network claims and determine Out-Of-Network Benefits using the current releases of the Ingenix Databases, as presently constituted, and as subject to Section 6.   The Plan of Allocation
shall permit Settlement Class Members to submit proofs of claim against the Settlement Fund for Out-Of-Network Benefits through the Final Order and Judgment Date. Any Settlement Class Members aggrieved by alleged underpayments of Out-Of-Network
Benefits by Defendants shall be entitled to pursue such internal administrative appellate remedies with Defendants to which they are currently entitled, but Settlement Class Members covenant and agree that they shall not take any step whatsoever to
commence, institute, continue, pursue, maintain, prosecute, or enforce any claim, in any forum, contending that the PHCS or MDR database, as applicable, has resulted in an inappropriate or unreasonable Out-Of-Network Benefit determination, or
otherwise challenging the use of the Ingenix Databases as a tool in determining their Out-Of-Network Benefits. Nothing in this Section shall be construed to require Defendants to use modules of the Ingenix Databases as satisfying any health care
benefit plan s Benchmarking Standard, including, but not limited to,  reasonable and customary,   usual, customary and reasonable,  or  usual and prevailing,  when Defendants did not use those modules of the
Ingenix Database at the time of entering into this Settlement Agreement.       

6.   
   Use of Current Version of PHCS Database         To the
extent that Defendants  payments for Covered Out-Of-Network Services or Supplies prior to the establishment of the New Database are based on the Ingenix Databases, those Defendants shall use the most current version of the PHCS Database to
determine the Allowed Amount in accordance with the schedule for loading each new release of the Ingenix Databases that Defendants presently have in place.       

7.   
   Additional Required Court Filings         Upon the filing
of a joint motion for entry of the Preliminary Approval Order as outlined in Section 11, the Parties shall coordinate on all necessary court filings to include in the United Healthcare Actions all of the Parties, claims, and Settlement Class
Period as needed to effectuate this Settlement Agreement fully, including its release and covenant not to sue provisions. Furthermore, Settling Plaintiffs David Befeler, M.D., Darrick E. Antell, M.D., FACS, and David A. Ditsworth, M.D. will file a
motion to intervene in the United Healthcare Actions contemporaneously with the filing of a joint motion for entry of the Preliminary Approval Order.       7.1 Stay And Dismissal Of Oxford Action       Promptly following the Execution Date, the Parties jointly
shall request from the court in the Oxford Action a stay of proceedings pending the Effective Date, and until the Effective Date. Upon the occurrence of the Effective Date, the Parties jointly  
       
   17   

shall move to dismiss the Oxford Action with prejudice. In the event that this Settlement Agreement is terminated or the Effective Date does not occur, the
stay shall be vacated and the Oxford Action shall proceed as though the Settlement Class has never been certified.       

8.   
   Application Of Settlement Agreement To Self-Funded Plans         No provision of this Settlement Agreement relating to Defendants  conduct following the Preliminary Approval Date shall apply to a Self-Funded Plan where that plan does not consent to such provisions. The Company shall make reasonable
efforts to obtain consent from Self-Funded Plans to the provisions of this Settlement Agreement.       

9.   
   Compliance With Applicable Laws And Requirements Of Government Contracts         The obligations undertaken in this Settlement Agreement shall be fulfilled by Defendants to the extent permissible under applicable laws and regulations, the terms and conditions of current and future government
contracts, and applicable government directives, and it is expressly agreed and understood that compliance with such obligations is excused to the extent compliance would be contrary to such laws, regulations, and government contracts or directives.
To the extent that any governmental approval is required for Defendants to fulfill an obligation under this Settlement Agreement, such Defendants shall make reasonable efforts to obtain any necessary approvals from the appropriate governmental
entities.       

10.   
   Commitment To Support And Communications With Settlement Class Members         The Parties agree that it is in their best interests to: (i) consummate this Settlement Agreement and all the terms and conditions contained herein; (ii) cooperate with each other; (iii) take all
actions reasonably necessary to obtain Court approval of this Settlement Agreement and entry of the orders of the Court that are required to implement its provisions; and (iv) support this Settlement Agreement in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of this Settlement Agreement.      Settlement Class Counsel and Settling Plaintiffs shall make every reasonable effort to
encourage putative Settlement Class Members to participate and not to Opt-Out pursuant to Section 14.1 of this Settlement Agreement. Settling Plaintiffs, Settlement Class Counsel, and Defendants agree that Defendants may communicate with
putative Settlement Class Members regarding the provisions of this Settlement Agreement, so long as such communications are not inconsistent with the terms of this Settlement Agreement. The Parties agree that from the Notice Date until the Effective
Date, Defendants shall refer all Settlement Class Member inquiries concerning the Settlement to the Claims Administrator identified in the Mailed Notice and Published Notice. Nothing contained herein, however, shall prevent Defendants from
communicating with Settlement Class Members in the ordinary course of Defendants  business.         
   18   

11.   
   Preliminary Approval Of Settlement         Within ten
(10) business days following the Execution Date, Settling Plaintiffs shall submit to the Court a joint motion for entry of the Preliminary Approval Order, substantially in the form annexed hereto as Exhibit 1, accompanied by a copy of this
Settlement Agreement and a memorandum in support of the motion, which, among other things, asks the Court to:       

(a)  
  Conditionally certify the Settlement Class (solely for the purpose of certifying the Settlement Class for settlement, Defendants agree not to present or pursue any of their
individualized affirmative and negative defenses to the claims in any of the complaints Settling Plaintiffs filed in the Actions);         

(b)  
  Find that the Settling Plaintiffs who are representative plaintiffs as set out in the Preliminary Approval Order fairly and adequately represent the interests of the Settlement
Class and have claims typical of Settlement Class Members and provisionally designate them as representatives for the Settlement Class (solely for the purpose of certifying the Settlement Class for settlement, Defendants agree not to present or
pursue any of their affirmative and negative defenses to the claims of Settling Plaintiffs in any of the complaints filed in the Actions);         

(c)  
  Find preliminarily that Settlement Class Counsel fairly and adequately represent the interests of the Settlement Class, and provisionally designating Settlement Class Counsel;

(d)  
  Find that the terms of the Settlement contemplated by this Settlement Agreement fall within the range of possible approval, and therefore order that the Settlement Agreement be
preliminarily approved;         

(e)  
  Schedule a Final Settlement Hearing to determine the fairness of the Settlement Agreement;         

(f)  
  Approve the Mailed Notice and the Published Notice, which the Parties agree is appropriate settlement notice and is reasonably calculated to apprise Settlement Class Members of the
pendency of the Actions, the Settlement Agreement, and their rights under the Settlement Agreement;         

(g)  
  Approve the Claims Administrator designated pursuant to Section 15.2 of this Settlement Agreement, and direct that the Claims Administrator perform the functions described in
this Settlement Agreement;           
   19   

(h)  
  Direct the Claims Administrator to mail, via first class postage, to the last-known address of all Settling Plaintiffs and Settlement Class Members, the Mailed Notice within one
hundred twenty (120) days of the Preliminary Approval Date;         

(i)  
  Direct the Claims Administrator to publish the Published Notice no more than three (3) times in the legal notices section in  USA Today  within thirty-five (35) days
of the Notice Date. All costs and expenses associated with disseminating the Mailed Notice or the Published Notice shall be paid solely out of the Settlement Account; and         

(j)  
  Find that the Parties have complied fully with the notice provisions pursuant to the Class Action Fairness Act of 2005, 28 U.S.C.   1715.         

12.   
   Designated Recipients For Notices Under Settlement Agreement         The Persons designated to receive notices under this Settlement Agreement are as follows, unless notification of any change to such designation is given to each other Party hereto in writing pursuant to this Section:
      Settlement Class Counsel (on behalf of themselves and on behalf of Settling Plaintiffs and Settlement Class Members):       D. Brian Hufford, Esq.      Pomerantz Haudek
Block Grossman   Gross LLP      1900 Polaris Parkway, Suite 450      Columbus, OH 43240      Stanley M. Grossman, Esq.
     Robert J. Axelrod, Esq.      Pomerantz Haudek Block Grossman   Gross LLP      100 Park Avenue      New York, NY 10017       The Company and/or
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company:       Office of the General Counsel      UnitedHealth Group, Inc.      300 Opus Center
     9900 Bren Road East      Minnetonka, MN 55343      Jeffrey S. Klein, Esq.      Nicholas J. Pappas, Esq.      Weil, Gotshal   Manges LLP      767 Fifth Avenue      New York, NY 10153
        
   20   

American Airlines, Inc.       David Strickler, Esq.      American Airlines,
Inc.      4333 Amon Carter Blvd.      Fort Worth, Texas 76155       

13.   
   Preliminary Approval Hearing         If the Court, in its
discretion, chooses to conduct a Preliminary Approval Hearing, the Parties will present arguments and evidence in support of the motion for entry of the Preliminary Approval Order. If the Court grants the motion and enters the Preliminary Approval
Order, with or without holding a Preliminary Approval Hearing, then the Parties will proceed with the process outlined herein.       13.1
Effect Of Denial Of Motion For Preliminary Approval Order       Other than to effectuate this Settlement Agreement, the Parties do not agree
to the conditional certification of the Settlement Class, the provisional designation of Settlement Class Counsel, or the provisional designation of Settling Plaintiffs as representatives of the Settlement Class for any purpose. If this Settlement
Agreement is terminated pursuant to its terms, or if the Effective Date does not occur for any reason, then the conditional certification of the Settlement Class and the provisional designation of Settling Plaintiffs and Settlement Class Counsel
shall be automatically vacated, and the Actions shall proceed as though the Settlement Class had never been conditionally certified and as though the provisional designations of Settling Plaintiffs and Settlement Class Counsel had not been made,
without prejudice to Settling Plaintiffs  right to file a motion to certify a class or classes and to seek appointment of class representatives and class counsel, and without prejudice to Defendants  right to assert any and all defenses to
class certification, including, but not limited to, the propriety of a class or classes and/or to the substantive allegations asserted by Settling Plaintiffs and the putative class or classes. This provision survives termination of this Settlement
Agreement.       

14.   
   Procedure For Final Approval         Settlement Class
Counsel, Settling Plaintiffs, and Defendants agree to ask the Court to set the Final Settlement Hearing for a date that is at least forty-five (45) days after the Objection Date (the   Final Settlement Hearing Date  ). The
Parties agree to request the Court to set the Objection Date for the date that is sixty (60) days after the Notice Date (the   Objection Date  ). Settlement Class Members shall have until the Objection Date to file, in the manner
specified in the Mailed Notice, any objections or other responses to this Settlement Agreement. Upon the Court s final approval of the Settlement Agreement, Settling Plaintiffs, Settlement Class Counsel, and Defendants shall request that the
Court enter the Final Order and Judgment substantially in the form  
       
   21   

attached as Exhibit 2. Settlement Class Counsel and Defendants agree to work together to identify and submit any evidence that may be required by the Court
or otherwise to satisfy the burden for obtaining approval of this Settlement Agreement and the orders of the Court that are necessary to effectuate the provisions of this Settlement Agreement, including without limitation the Final Order and
Judgment and the orders contained therein. At the Final Settlement Hearing, Settling Plaintiffs and Defendants shall present evidence as necessary and appropriate to obtain the Court s approval of the Settlement Agreement and the Final Order
and Judgment. The Parties shall meet and confer prior to the Final Settlement Hearing to coordinate their presentation to the Court in support of Court approval as set forth above.       14.1 Opt-Out Timing And Rights       The
Parties jointly shall request to the Court that the Mailed Notice be disseminated no later than one hundred twenty (120) days after the Preliminary Approval Date and the   Notice Date   shall be defined as one hundred twenty
(120) days after the Preliminary Approval Date.      The Mailed Notice and the Published Notice shall provide that Settlement Class
Members may request exclusion from the Settlement Class by providing notice in the manner specified in those Notices, or on or before a date set by the Court as the Opt-Out deadline (  Opt-Out Deadline  ). Settling Plaintiffs,
Settlement Class Counsel, and Defendants agree to request that the Court set the Opt-Out Deadline for the same date as the Objection Date.      Settlement Class Members shall have the right to exclude themselves (  Opt-Out  ) from this Settlement Agreement and from the Settlement Class by timely submitting to the Claims Administrator a request to Opt-Out and
otherwise complying with the agreed-upon Opt-Out procedures approved by the Court. Members of the Settlement Class who timely request to Opt Out shall be excluded from this Settlement Agreement and from participation as Settlement Class Members.
Out-Of-Network Health Care Provider Groups, as distinct legal entities, and their individual Out-Of-Network Health Care Provider members, partners, shareholders, owners, or employees, must separately request exclusion from the Settlement Class in
order to Opt-Out. Requests for exclusion by Out-Of-Network Health Care Provider Groups, as distinct legal entities, must be signed by individuals who attest that they have the authority to bind the Out-Of-Network Health Care Provider Group.
     Any member of the Settlement Class who does not submit a request to Opt-Out by the Opt-Out Deadline, or who does not otherwise comply with
the agreed-upon Opt-Out procedures approved by the Court, shall be a Settlement Class Member and shall be bound by the terms of this Settlement Agreement and the Final Order and Judgment.         
   22   

On each Friday after the Notice Date and through the Opt-Out Deadline, the Claims Administrator shall
provide to the Parties: (a) a list in machine-readable form of all Opt-Out requests received up to that date; and (b) to the extent not already provided, copies of the actual request to Opt-Out filed by each Opt-Out. Within five
(5) business days after the Opt-Out Deadline, the Claims Administrator shall furnish the Parties with: (a) a complete list in machine-readable form of all Opt-Out requests (including, at a minimum, the name and address for each Opt-Out)
filed by the Opt-Out Deadline; (b) copies of the actual request to opt-out filed by each Opt-Out; and (c) a statement of the total number of Mailed Notices mailed and the total number of Opt-Out requests received. At the same time, the
Claims Administrator shall furnish a sworn affidavit to the Parties providing a list of all Settlement Class Members to whom the Mailed Notice was sent, along with all mailing addresses and any other Settlement Class Member-identifying information
that the Claims Administrator used in mailing the Mailed Notices to Settlement Class Members.       14.2  Bust-Up  Provision  
     Notwithstanding any other provisions in this Settlement Agreement, Defendants reserve the right, in their sole and absolute discretion, to
terminate this Settlement Agreement within thirty (30) days after receipt of the categories of items to be furnished by the Claims Administrator set forth in Section 14.1 by delivering a notice of termination to Settlement Class Counsel,
with a copy to the Court, prior to the commencement of the Final Settlement Hearing, if they determine that any of the following conditions has occurred with respect to Opt-Outs: (a) the number of Plan Member Opt-Outs exceeds 2% of the number
of Plan Members who were mailed the Mailed Notice; (b) the number of Out-of-Network Health Care Provider Opt-Outs exceeds 1% of the number of Out-Of-Network Health Care Providers who were mailed the Mailed Notice; (c) the aggregate
difference between billed charges incurred in 2007 on Covered Out-Of-Network Services or Supplies, and the corresponding Allowed Amounts determined, by and for Plan Members who were mailed the Mailed Notice and Opted-Out, exceeds $40 million; or
(d) the aggregate difference between charges billed in 2007 for Covered Out-Of-Network Services or Supplies by Out-Of-Network Health Care Providers who were mailed the Mailed Notice and Opted-Out, and the corresponding Allowed Amounts, exceeds
$40 million.       

15.   
   Administration Of Cash Settlement Fund          15.1
Payment Of Costs Of Notice And Administration Of Settlement       The costs of notice and administration of this Settlement Agreement shall
be paid solely out of the Cash Settlement Fund. In no event shall Defendants bear any responsibility for any such costs or expenses. Notwithstanding the above, the Company shall be solely responsible for: (i) the costs of collecting health care
claims data from its claims systems in connection with the administration of this Settlement Agreement, including the dates Covered Out-Of-Network Services or Supplies were provided and the Allowed Amounts from January 1, 2002 until the Notice
Date, and providing such health  
       
   23   

care claims data to the Claims Administrator; and (ii) the costs of identifying Settlement Class Members from its own business files and records for
purposes of providing such data to the Claims Administrator for the dissemination of the Mailed Notice.   Reasonable costs incurred by the Claims Administrator prior to the Effective Date shall be advanced by the Company, and the amount the
Company is required to contribute to the Cash Settlement Fund shall be reduced by the amount of any such costs advanced. In the event that the Settlement does not become effective prior to the Funding Date, neither Settling Plaintiffs nor Settlement
Class Counsel shall have any liability to repay any such costs advanced.       15.2 Claims Administrator       Subject to the approval of the Court, the Claims Administrator shall be designated by Settlement Class Counsel. The Claims Administrator shall administer
and calculate the claims submitted by Settlement Class Members for payments from the Settlement Account and shall oversee distribution of the Settlement Account to Settlement Class Members. The Escrow Agent shall provide the Claims Administrator,
Settlement Class Counsel, and Defendants with an accounting of distributions from the Settlement Account within thirty (30) days after the final distribution to Settlement Class Members from the Settlement Account. The Claims Administrator
and/or the Escrow Agent shall provide additional reports as Settlement Class Counsel and Defendants jointly shall request.       15.3
Qualified Settlement Fund       The parties agree to treat the Cash Settlement Fund as being at all times a  qualified settlement
fund  within the meaning of Treas. Reg. Section 1.468B-1. In addition, as required, the Claims Administrator and the Escrow Agent jointly and timely shall make the  relation-back election  (as defined in Treas. Reg.
Section 2.468B-1) back to the earliest permitted date.       15.4 Administrator For Purposes Of Internal Revenue Code       For the purposes of Section 468B of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and Treas. Reg. Section 1.468B, the  administrator  shall be
the Claims Administrator. The Claims Administrator timely and properly shall file all informational and other tax returns necessary or advisable with respect to the Settlement Account (including, without limitation, the return described in Treas.
Reg. Section 1.468B-2(a)). Such returns (as well as the election described in Section 15.2, shall be consistent with this Section and in all events shall reflect that all taxes (including any estimated taxes, interest, or penalties) on the
income earned by the Cash Settlement Fund shall be paid out of the Cash Settlement Fund as provided in Section 15.5.         
   24   

15.5 Taxes       All taxes (including any estimated taxes, interest, or penalties) arising with respect to the income earned by the Settlement Account (  Taxes  ), and the expenses and costs incurred in connection with
the operation and implementation of Section 15.4 (including, without limitation, expenses of tax attorneys and/or accountants and the mailing and distribution costs and expenses relating to filing or failing to file the returns described in
Section 15.4 (  Tax Expenses  )), shall be paid out of the Settlement Account. In all events, the Parties and their respective counsel shall not have any liability or responsibility for the Taxes, Tax Expenses, or the filing of
any tax returns or other documents with the Internal Revenue Service or any other state or local taxing authority. Taxes and Tax Expenses shall be treated as, and considered to be, a cost of administration of the Settlement Account and shall be paid
timely by the Claims Administrator out of the Settlement Account without prior order of the Court.       15.6 Distribution Of Settlement
Account       The Settlement Account shall be distributed to the Settlement Class Members in accordance with this Settlement Agreement and
the Escrow Agreement. No disbursements shall be made to any Settlement Class Members from the Settlement Account until after the Effective Date of this Settlement Agreement.       15.7 No Liability       The Parties shall
have no liability with respect to the investment or distribution of the Cash Settlement Fund, the Plan of Allocation, the determination or administration of taxes, or any losses incurred in connection with the Cash Settlement Fund.       15.8 No Claims       No Person shall have
any claim against Settling Plaintiffs, Settlement Class Counsel, Defendants, Defendants  counsel, the Claims Administrator, or the Escrow Agent, based on the distributions made substantially in accordance with this Settlement Agreement or
further orders of the Court.       15.9 Force Majeure       The Parties shall not be liable for any delay or non-performance of their obligations under this Settlement Agreement arising from any act of God, governmental act, act of terrorism, war, fire, flood, earthquake,
explosion, or civil commotion. The performance of the Parties  obligations under this Section, to the extent affected by the delay, shall be suspended for the period during which the cause, or the Parties  substantial inability to perform
arising from the cause, persists.         
   25   

16.   
   Release And Covenant Not To Sue          16.1 Discharge
Of All Released Claims       Except as provided herein, upon final settlement approval of this Settlement Agreement, for good and valuable
consideration received from Defendants, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, Settling Plaintiffs and each and every Settlement Class Member who does not Opt-Out of this Settlement Agreement pursuant to Section 14.1 of
this Settlement Agreement, on behalf of themselves and each of their heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns, and any persons they represent, and each of their agents (including, but not limited to, any investment managers and
advisors), representatives, officers, directors, executives, members, partners, participants, shareholders, investors, principals, employees, trustees, assigns, and attorneys of each of them to the extent those entities or individuals acted on
behalf of, or are claiming through or by virtue of the claims of, any Settling Plaintiffs and/or Settlement Class Member (  Releasors  ), hereby unconditionally, fully, and finally release and forever discharge each of the Released
Persons from the Released Claims and each of the Non-Party Carriers from the Non-Party Carriers  Released Claims.      The Releasors
further agree to abandon forever and discharge any and all claims that exist now or that might arise in the future against any other persons or entities, which claims arise from, or are based on, conduct by any of the Released Persons or Non-Party
Carriers in connection with the Released Claims or the Non-Party Carriers  Released Claims, whether any such claim was or could have been asserted by any Releasor on its own behalf or on behalf of other persons. Nothing in this Settlement
Agreement is intended to relieve any person or entity that is not a Released Person from responsibility for its own conduct or conduct of other persons who are not Released Persons, or to preclude any Settling Plaintiff from introducing any
competent and admissible evidence in a court proceeding to the extent consistent with Section 21.      The Parties agree that the Released
Claims and the Non-Party Carriers  Released Claims that are being released and discharged herein include claims that may not currently exist, or that Settling Plaintiffs and Settlement Class Members may not know or suspect to exist, in their
favor at the time of this Settlement Agreement. Settling Plaintiffs and Settlement Class Members who do not Opt-Out of this Settlement waive any and all provisions, rights, and benefits conferred by California Civil Code   1542, or by any law
of any state or territory of the United States, or principle of common law, which is similar, comparable, or equivalent to California Civil Code   1542, which provides:      A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist in his or her favor at the time of executing the release,
which if known by him or her must have materially affected his or her settlement with the debtor.         
   26   

Releasors are aware that they may, after the date of this Settlement Agreement, discover claims or facts
in addition to or different from those they now know or believe to be true with respect to the Released Claims and Non-Party Carriers  Released Claims. Nevertheless, it is the intention of the Parties to fully, finally, and forever settle and
release all Released Claims as to all Released Persons and all Non-Party Carriers  Released Claims as to all Non-Party Carriers, including those that are presently unknown or unanticipated, and each Settling Plaintiff and Settlement Class
Member hereby expressly waives and fully, finally, and forever settles and releases, upon the entry of the Final Order and Judgment, any known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, contingent or non-contingent claim that is the subject matter of
this provision, whether or not concealed or hidden, without regard to the discovery or existence of such different or additional facts.       16.2 Covenant Not To Sue Or Continue Suit       Each of the Releasors hereby covenants and agrees that it shall not take any step
whatsoever to commence, institute, continue, pursue, maintain, prosecute, or enforce: (i) any Released Claims on behalf of itself of any other Person, against any of the Released Persons; or (ii) any Non-Party Carriers  Released
Claims, on behalf of itself or any other Person, against any of the Non-Party Carriers. Upon the Final Order and Judgment Date, each of the Releasors hereby warrants and represents that he/she/it has not assigned, sold, or otherwise transferred any
claim that he/she/it previously had that otherwise would fall within the scope of Section 16.1 or this Section.       16.3 Irreparable
Harm       The Parties agree that Defendants shall suffer irreparable harm if a Releasor takes action inconsistent with either
Section 16.1 or Section 16.2 and that in that event, Defendants may seek an injunction from the Court as to such action without a further showing of irreparable harm and without the need to post any bond (or, if a bond is required by
controlling law, without the need to post anything more than a nominal bond).       16.4 Defendants  Discharge And Covenant Not To
Continue Suit On Counterclaims       Except as provided herein, upon Final Settlement Approval, for good and valuable consideration received
from Settling Plaintiffs, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, Defendants, on behalf of themselves and each of their heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns, and any persons they represent, and each of their
agents (including but not limited to any investment managers and advisors), representatives, officers, directors, executives, members, partners, participants, shareholders, investors, principals, employees, trustees, assigns, and attorneys of each
of them to the extent those entities or individuals acted on behalf of, or are claiming through or by virtue of the claims of, any Defendants, hereby unconditionally, fully, and finally  
       
   27   

release and forever discharge any counterclaims that are currently or were previously pending in the Actions against the Settling Plaintiffs
(  Counterclaims  ). Each of the Defendants further hereby covenants and agrees that it shall not take any step whatsoever to commence, institute, continue, pursue, maintain, prosecute, or enforce the Counterclaims, on behalf of
itself of any other Person, against any of Settling Plaintiffs. Upon the Final Order and Judgment Date, each of the Defendants hereby warrants and represents that it has not assigned, sold, or otherwise transferred any Counterclaims. Defendants
further agree that Settling Plaintiffs shall suffer irreparable harm if a Defendant takes action inconsistent with this Section and that in that event, Settling Plaintiffs may seek an injunction from the Court as to such action without a further
showing of irreparable harm and without the need to post any bond (or, if a bond is required by controlling law, without the need to post anything more than a nominal bond).       16.5 Assignments       The Parties agree
that all payments from the Settlement Account relating to claims released by this Settlement Agreement shall be paid directly to releasing Settlement Class Members. In the event that a Releasor has assigned Released Claims to another but also
receives benefits under this Settlement Agreement and the Plan of Allocation, the assignment shall be withdrawn.       
    Any Attorneys  Fees
awarded by the Court shall be paid by the Claims Administrator solely from the Cash Settlement Fund. Defendants shall not be obligated to pay any Attorneys  Fees or expenses incurred by or on behalf of any Releasor in connection with the
Actions. In the event the Court approves of the payment of Attorneys  Fees to Settlement Class Counsel prior to the Effective Date, Settlement Class Counsel shall secure such payment of Attorneys  Fees by obtaining a satisfactory letter of
credit from Settlement Class Counsel.       

18.   
   Stay Of Proceedings, Termination, And Effective Date Of Settlement Agreement          18.1 Stay Of Proceedings And Bar Order       Until the Preliminary Approval Order has been entered,
including the stay of proceedings as to the Released Parties in the form contained therein, Settling Plaintiffs and Settlement Class Counsel covenant and agree that neither Settling Plaintiffs nor Settlement Class Counsel shall pursue litigation
proceedings against the Released Persons; Defendants shall not pursue litigation proceedings against the Releasors; and the Parties and their respective counsel shall not in any way subsequently argue that the Released Persons or Releasors have
failed to comply with their litigation obligations in any respect by reason of the Released Persons  and Releasors  suspension of litigation efforts following the execution of this Settlement Agreement.         
   28   

Upon entry of the Preliminary Approval Order, all proceedings in the Actions, other than proceedings
necessary to carry out the terms and conditions of this Settlement Agreement, shall be stayed and suspended until further order of the Court. The Preliminary Approval Order also shall bar and enjoin all Settlement Class Members who have not
Opted-Out of the Settlement pursuant to Section 14.1 from commencing, prosecuting, or assigning the right to do so, of any action asserting any Released Claims against any Released Person. The Final Order and Judgment shall include a bar of any
and all assertion of claims or demands by any Non-Party Carrier against any Released Person for liability, contribution, indemnity, or other similar claims concerning, relating to, or arising out of any Released Claims (the   Bar
Order  ).       18.2 Right To Terminate This Settlement Agreement       In the event that: (i) the Stipulation of Settlement, the Final Order and Judgment, and/or any order proposed jointly by the Parties relating
thereto, are not approved by the Court substantially in the form submitted; (ii) the Company does not enter into the OAG Assurance of Discontinuance containing terms substantially the same as those detailed in Section 4 of this Settlement
Agreement; (iii) Defendants opt to terminate the Settlement pursuant to Section 14.2; or (iv) approval of the Stipulation of Settlement, the Final Order and Judgment, and/or such orders, are modified or reversed in any material
respect by any appellate or other court (each being a   Termination Event  ), the Parties that are adversely affected by the Termination Event shall have the right, in their sole and absolute discretion, to terminate this Settlement
Agreement by providing written notice to Settlement Class Counsel or Defendants  counsel, as applicable, within twenty (20) days after the Termination Event. If the Settlement Agreement is so terminated, this Stipulation, the Final Order
and Judgment, and all orders entered in connection with it shall become null and void and of no further force and effect with respect to Settling Plaintiffs, Defendants, and the Settlement Class. In the event of any Termination Event, the Parties
shall be restored to their original positions, except as expressly provided herein.       18.3 Effective Date       If the Final Order and Judgment is entered by the Court and the time for appeal from such Final Order and Judgment has elapsed (including, without
limitation, any extension of time for the filing of any appeal that may result by operation of law or order of the Court) with no notice of appeal having been filed, the   Effective Date   shall be the 11th calendar day after the last
date on which notice of appeal could have been timely filed. If the Final Order and Judgment are entered and an appeal is filed, the Effective Date shall be the 11th calendar day after the Final Order and Judgment is affirmed, all appeals are
dismissed, and no further appeals to, or discretionary review in, any court remains.         
   29   

18.4 Effect Of An Appeal       An appeal of the Final Order and Judgment involving any matter other than the amount or allocation of Attorneys  Fees shall postpone the occurrence
of the Effective Date. If any Final Order and Judgment approving the Settlement is not affirmed in its entirety on any such appeal or discretionary review, Defendants may, in their sole and absolute discretion, terminate this Settlement Agreement by
delivering a notice of termination to Settlement Class Counsel within thirty (30) calendar days of such appellate or discretionary review determination.       
    This Settlement Agreement shall
terminate upon the termination of this Settlement Agreement by any Party pursuant to the terms of this Settlement Agreement (the   Termination Date  ). Effective on the Termination Date, and except where expressly provided otherwise,
the provisions of this Settlement Agreement shall thereafter become void and of no further force and effect and there shall be no liability under this Settlement Agreement on the part of any Party, except as to a claim for breach of this Settlement
Agreement brought before the Termination Date.       

20.   
   Obligation To Return Documents         Within thirty
(30) days after the Effective Date, all documents or other items, and all copies thereof, of a Party that are in the possession, custody, or control of any other Party because they were produced in discovery in the Actions shall be returned to
the producing Party, at the sole election of the producing Party. An affidavit from the receiving Party stating that the documents were returned completely shall be delivered within thirty (30) days after the Effective Date to counsel for the
producing Party. Counsel for the Parties may retain copies of all documents that have been filed with the Court, depositions, and exhibits thereto, except those filed under seal, which must be returned pursuant to this Section. All logs of
privileged or work-product-protected documents shall be returned to the producing Party in accordance with this Section.       

21.   
   Not Evidence; No Admission Of Liability         In no
event shall this Settlement Agreement, in whole or in part, whether effective, terminated, or otherwise, or any of its provisions or any negotiations, statements, or proceedings relating to it, be construed as, offered as, received as, used as, or
deemed to be evidence of any kind in the Actions, in any other action or proceeding, except in a proceeding to enforce this Settlement Agreement. Without limiting the foregoing, neither this Settlement Agreement nor any related negotiations,
statements, or proceedings shall be construed as, offered as, received as, used as, or deemed to be evidence, or an admission or concession of liability of wrongdoing or breach of any duty on the part of any Party, or as a waiver by any Party of any
applicable defense, including without limitation any applicable statute of limitations. None of the Parties waives or intends to waive any applicable attorney-client privilege or work product protection for any negotiations, statements, or
proceedings relating to this Settlement Agreement. This provision shall survive termination of this Settlement Agreement.         
   30   

22.   
   No Presumption Against Drafter         None of the Parties
shall be considered to be the drafter of this Settlement Agreement or any provision for the purpose of any statute, case law, or rule of interpretation or construction that would or might cause any provision to be construed against the drafter
hereof. This Settlement Agreement was drafted with substantial input by all Parties and their respective counsel, and no reliance was placed on any representation other than those contained in this Settlement Agreement.       

23.   
   Continuing Jurisdiction And Exclusive Venue         Except
as otherwise provided in this Settlement Agreement, it is expressly agreed and stipulated that the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York shall have exclusive jurisdiction and authority to administer, interpret, and
enforce the terms of this Settlement Agreement, and to consider, rule upon, and issue a final order with respect to suits, whether judicial, administrative, or otherwise, which may be instituted by any Person, individually or derivatively, with
respect to this Settlement Agreement. This reservation of jurisdiction does not limit any other reservation of jurisdiction in this Settlement Agreement, nor do any other such reservations limit the reservation in this subsection. Except as
otherwise provided in this Settlement Agreement, each Party and each Settlement Class Member who has not Opted-Out of this Settlement Agreement hereby irrevocably submits to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the United States District Court
for the Southern District of New York for any suit, action, proceeding, case, controversy, or dispute relating to this Settlement Agreement and/or the negotiation, performance, or breach of this Settlement Agreement. Furthermore, the Parties jointly
shall urge the Court to include the provisions of this Section in its Final Order and Judgment approving this Settlement Agreement.       
    The Parties agree to move the Court to
enter an order to the effect that should any Person desire any discovery incident to (or which the Person contends is necessary to) the approval of this Settlement Agreement, the Person first must obtain an order from the Court.       
    This Settlement Agreement may be
executed in counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original. Facsimile signatures shall be considered valid signatures as of the date submitted, although the original signature pages shall thereafter be appended to this Settlement
Agreement.         
   31   

26.   
   Divisions And Headings         The division of this
Settlement Agreement into sections and subsections and the use of captions and headings in connection herewith are solely for convenience and shall have no legal effect in construing the provisions of this Settlement Agreement.       
    This Settlement Agreement and all
agreements, exhibits, and documents relating to this Settlement Agreement shall be construed under the laws of the State of New York, excluding its choice of law rules.       
    The provisions of this Settlement Agreement
may be waived only by an instrument in writing executed by the waiving party. The waiver by any Party of any breach of this Settlement Agreement shall not be deemed to be or construed as a waiver of any other breach, whether prior, subsequent, or
contemporaneous, of this Settlement Agreement.       

29.   
   No Third-Party Beneficiaries         Except as otherwise
specified herein, nothing in this Settlement Agreement is intended, nor shall it in any way be construed, to create or convey any rights in or to any Person other than the Parties and the Settlement Class Members.       

30.   
   Successors And Assigns         The provisions of this
Settlement Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Parties and their respective successors and assigns; provided that a Party may not assign, delegate, or otherwise transfer any of its, his, or her rights or obligations under
this Settlement Agreement to a third party that is not a successor or affiliate, without: (a) in the case of a Defendant, the consent of Settlement Class Counsel; and (b) in the case of a Plaintiff, the consent of counsel for Defendants.

31.   
   Entire Settlement Agreement; Amendment         This
Settlement Agreement, including its Exhibits, contains an entire, complete, and integrated statement of each and every term and provision agreed to by and among the Parties, and the Settlement Agreement is not subject to any condition not provided
for herein. This Settlement Agreement supersedes any prior agreements or understandings, whether written or oral, between and among Settling Plaintiffs, Settlement Class Members, Settlement Class Counsel, Defendants, and counsel for Defendants
regarding the subject matter of this Settlement Agreement. This Settlement Agreement may be amended or modified only as provided in a written instrument signed by or on behalf of all signatories to this Settlement Agreement (or their successors in
interest) and approved by the Court.         
   32   

By the signature affixed hereto,
each Party acknowledges that it, he, or she has read this Settlement Agreement, fully understands the agreements, representations, covenants, obligations, conditions, warranties, releases, and terms contained herein, and has had the advise of
counsel pertaining thereto, prior to the time of execution.       
    Each Person signing this Settlement
Agreement on behalf of a Party represents and warrants that he or she has all requisite power and authority to enter into this Settlement Agreement and to implement the transactions contemplated herein, and is duly authorized to execute this
Settlement Agreement on behalf of that Party.      EXECUTED and DELIVERED on January 14, 2009.       

ON BEHALF OF UNITED DEFENDANTS:    

/s/ Thomas J. McGuire   
 
  Thomas J. McGuire [Name]   
 
  UnitedHealth Group [Organization]   

ON BEHALF OF DEFENDANT AMERICAN AIRLINES, INC.    

/s/ Nicholas J. Pappas   
 
  Nicholas J. Pappas [Name]   
 
  Weil, Gotshal   Manges LLP, for American Airlines, Inc. [Organization]   

ON BEHALF OF SETTLING PLAINTIFFS, SETTLEMENT CLASS MEMBERS, AND SETTLEMENT CLASS COUNSEL:    

/s/ Stanley M. Grossman   
 
  Stanley M. Grossman, Esq.   
 
  Robert J. Axelrod, Esq.   
 
  D. Brian Hufford, Esq.   
     Pomerantz Haudek Block Grossman   Gross LLP          
   33   

</EX-99.2>

