<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20180213_10-K_edgar_data_731766_0000731766-18-000005_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>18650022</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>380368</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>951159</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>7218494</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>7667909</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2087604</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>65</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>13</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000731766-18-000005.hdr.sgml : 20180213
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20180213161043
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000731766-18-000005
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		107
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20171231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20180213
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20180213

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000731766
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS [6324]
		IRS NUMBER:				411321939
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-10864
		FILM NUMBER:		18603394

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		UNITEDHEALTH GROUP CENTER
		STREET 2:		9900 BREN ROAD EAST
		CITY:			MINNEAPOLIS
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55343
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9529361300

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		9900 BREN ROAD EAST
		CITY:			MINNETONKA
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55343

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	UNITED HEALTHCARE CORP/
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20000309

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	UNITED HEALTHCARE CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000731766-18-000005.txt : 20180213

10-K
 1
 unh2017123110-k.htm
 10-K

Document 

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  Washington, D.C. 20549 

Commission file number: 1-10864 
  __________________________________________________________  
  
  UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
                      Delaware 
      
    41-1321939 
      (State or other jurisdiction of 
  incorporation or organization) 
      
    (I.R.S. Employer 
  Identification No.) 

UnitedHealth Group Center 
  9900 Bren Road East 
  Minnetonka, Minnesota 
      
    55343 
      (Address of principal executive offices) 
      
    (Zip Code) 

(952) 936-1300 
  (Registrant s telephone number, including area code) 
  ______________________________________________________   
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  
                 COMMON STOCK, $.01 PAR VALUE 
    NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE, INC. 
      (Title of each class) 
    (Name of each exchange on which registered) 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE 
   __________________________________________________________     
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.   Yes [X]     No [ ] 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.     Yes [ ]     No [X]  
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ] 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    Yes [X]     No [ ] 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.   [X] 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or emerging growth company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer,   smaller reporting company  and  emerging growth company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one)                             Large accelerated filer 
    [X] 
      
    Accelerated filer 
    [ ] 
      
    Non-accelerated filer (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) 
    [ ] 
      Smaller reporting company 
    [ ] 

Emerging growth company 
    [ ] 

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. [ ] 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    Yes [ ]     No [X] 
  The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30, 2017 was $  177,882,211,144   (based on the last reported sale price of   $185.42   per share on June 30, 2017, on the New York Stock Exchange), excluding only shares of voting stock held beneficially by directors, executive officers and subsidiaries of the registrant.  
  As of January 31, 2018, there were   967,662,919   shares of the registrant s Common Stock, $.01 par value per share, issued and outstanding. 
  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
  The information required by Part III of this report, to the extent not set forth herein, is incorporated by reference from the registrant s definitive proxy statement relating to its 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Such proxy statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year to which this report relates.                         

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP 
  Table of Contents 

Page 

Part I 
      Item 1. 
     Business  
    1 
      Item 1A. 
     Risk Factors  
    13 
      Item 1B.  
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
    22 
      Item 2. 
     Properties  
    22 
      Item 3. 
     Legal Proceedings  
    23 
      Item 4. 
     Mine Safety Disclosures  
    23 
      Part II 
      Item 5. 
     Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
    23 
      Item 6. 
     Selected Financial Data  
    25 
      Item 7. 
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    25 
      Item 7A. 
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
    37 
      Item 8. 
     Financial Statements  
    39 
      Item 9. 
     Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
    68 
      Item 9A. 
     Controls and Procedures  
    68 
      Item 9B.  
     Other Information  
    71 
      Part III 
      Item 10. 
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
    71 
      Item 11. 
     Executive Compensation  
    71 
      Item 12. 
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters  
    72 
      Item 13. 
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
    72 
      Item 14. 
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services  
    72 
      Part IV 
      Item 15. 
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  
    73 
      Item 16. 
     Form 10-K Summary  
    81 
       Signatures  
    82 

PART I 
   
  ITEM  1.    BUSINESS  
  INTRODUCTION 
   
  Overview  
  UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health care company dedicated to helping people live healthier lives and helping make the health system work better for everyone. The terms  we,   our,   us,   its,   UnitedHealth Group,  or the  Company  used in this report refer to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and its subsidiaries.  
  Through our diversified family of businesses, we leverage core competencies in data and health information; advanced technology; and clinical expertise to help meet the demands of the health system. These core competencies are deployed within our two distinct, but strategically aligned, business platforms: health benefits operating under UnitedHealthcare and health services operating under Optum.  
  UnitedHealthcare provides health care benefits to an array of customers and markets. UnitedHealthcare Employer   Individual serves employers ranging from sole proprietorships to large, multi-site and national employers, public sector employers and other individuals. UnitedHealthcare Medicare   Retirement delivers health and well-being benefits for Medicare beneficiaries and retirees. UnitedHealthcare Community   State manages health care benefit programs on behalf of state Medicaid and community programs and their participants. UnitedHealthcare Global includes the provision of health and dental benefits and hospital and clinical services to employer groups and individuals in Brazil, and other diversified global health businesses. 
  Optum is a health services business serving the broad health care marketplace, including payers, care providers, employers, governments, life sciences companies and consumers, through its OptumHealth, OptumInsight and OptumRx businesses. These businesses have dedicated units that help improve overall health system performance through optimizing care quality, reducing costs and improving consumer experience and care provider performance, leveraging distinctive capabilities in data and analytics, pharmacy care services, population health, health care delivery and health care operations. 
  Through UnitedHealthcare and Optum, in 2017, we processed nearly three-quarters of a trillion dollars in gross billed charges and we managed nearly $250 billion in aggregate health care spending on behalf of the customers and consumers we serve. Our revenues are derived from premiums on risk-based products; fees from management, administrative, technology and consulting services; sales of a wide variety of products and services related to the broad health care industry; and investment and other income. Our two business platforms have four reportable segments:  
             
    UnitedHealthcare, which includes UnitedHealthcare Employer   Individual, UnitedHealthcare Medicare   Retirement, UnitedHealthcare Community   State and UnitedHealthcare Global;  
                
    OptumHealth;  
                
    OptumInsight; and  
                
    OptumRx.  
     For our financial results and the presentation of certain other financial information by segment, including revenues and long-lived fixed assets by geographic source, see    Note 13 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8,  Financial Statements.   
  UnitedHealthcare 
  Through its health benefits offerings, UnitedHealthcare is enabling better health, helping to control rising health care costs and creating a better health care experience for its customers. UnitedHealthcare s market position is built on: 
             
    strong local market relationships; 
                
    the breadth of product offerings, which are responsive to many distinct market segments in health care; 
                
    service and advanced technology;  
                
    competitive medical and operating cost positions; 
                
    effective clinical engagement; 
                
    extensive expertise in distinct market segments; and 
                
    innovation for customers and consumers. 
     UnitedHealthcare utilizes Optum s capabilities to help coordinate patient care, improve affordability of medical care, analyze cost trends, manage pharmacy benefits, work with care providers more effectively and create a simpler consumer experienc  e. 
  
   1 

     Table of Contents  

In the United States, UnitedHealthcare arranges for discounted access to care through networks that include 1.2 million physicians and other health care professionals and approximately 6,500 hospitals and other facilities. 
  UnitedHealthcare is subject to extensive government regulation. See further discussion of our regulatory environment below under     Government Regulation     and in    Part II, Item 7,  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   
  UnitedHealthcare Employer   Individual 
  UnitedHealthcare Employer   Individual offers an array of consumer-oriented health benefit plans and services nationwide for large national employers, public sector employers, mid-sized employers, small businesses, and individuals. UnitedHealthcare Employer   Individual provides access to medical services for over 27 million people on behalf of our customers and alliance partners. This includes more than 230,000 employer customers serving people across all 50 states, the District of Columbia and most U.S. territories. Products are offered through affiliates that are licensed as insurance companies, health maintenance organizations (HMOs), or third-party administrators (TPAs). Large employer groups typically use self-funded arrangements where UnitedHealthcare Employer   Individual earns a service fee. Smaller employer groups and individuals are more likely to purchase risk-based products because they are less willing or unable to bear a greater potential liability for health care expenditures.  
  Through its risk-based product offerings, UnitedHealthcare Employer   Individual assumes the risk of both medical and administrative costs for its customers in return for a monthly premium, which is typically a fixed rate per individual served for a one-year period. When providing administrative and other management services to customers that elect to self-fund the health care costs of their employees and employees  dependents, UnitedHealthcare Employer   Individual receives a fixed monthly service fee per individual served. These customers retain the risk of financing medical benefits for their employees and employees  dependents, while UnitedHealthcare Employer   Individual provides services such as coordination and facilitation of medical and related services to customers, consumers and health care professionals, administration of transaction processing and access to a contracted network of physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals, including dental and vision.  
  The consolidated purchasing capacity represented by the individuals served by UnitedHealth Group makes it possible for UnitedHealthcare Employer   Individual to contract for cost-effective access to a large number of conveniently located care professionals and facilities. UnitedHealthcare Employer   Individual has relationships with network care providers that integrate data and analytics, implement value-based payments and care management programs, and enable us to jointly better manage health care and improve quality across populations.  
  UnitedHealthcare Employer   Individual typically distributes its products through consultants or direct sales in the larger employer and public sector segments. In the smaller group segment of the commercial marketplace, UnitedHealthcare Employer   Individual s distribution system consists primarily of direct sales and sales through collaboration with brokers and agents. UnitedHealthcare Employer   Individual also distributes products through wholesale agents or agencies that contract with health insurance carriers to distribute individual or group benefits and provide other related services to their customers. In addition, UnitedHealthcare Employer   Individual distributes its products through professional employer organizations, associations and through both multi-carrier and its own proprietary private exchange marketplaces.  
  UnitedHealthcare Employer   Individual s diverse product portfolio offers employers a continuum of benefit designs, price points and approaches to consumer engagement, which provides the flexibility to meet a full spectrum of their coverage needs.  
  UnitedHealthcare Employer   Individual s major product families include: 
  Traditional Products.   Traditional products include a full range of medical benefits and network options from managed plans, such as Choice and Options PPO, to more traditional indemnity products. The plans offer a full spectrum of covered services, including preventive care, direct access to specialists and catastrophic protection. 
  Consumer Engagement Products.   Consumer engagement products couple plan design with financial accounts to increase individuals  responsibility for their health and well-being. This suite of products includes high-deductible consumer-driven benefit plans, which include health reimbursement accounts (HRAs), health savings accounts (HSAs) and consumer engagement services such as personalized behavioral incentive programs and consumer education. During 2017, more than 50,000 employer-sponsored benefit plans, including nearly 400 employers in the large group self-funded market, purchased HRA or HSA health benefit products from us.  
  Clinical and Pharmacy Products.   UnitedHealthcare Employer   Individual offers a comprehensive suite of clinical and pharmacy care services products, which complement its service offerings by improving quality of care, engaging members and providing cost-saving options. All UnitedHealthcare Employer   Individual members are provided access to clinical products that help them make better health care decisions and better use of their medical benefits, which contribute to improved health and lowered medical expenses. 
  
   2 

     Table of Contents  

Each medical plan has a core set of clinical programs embedded in the offering, with additional services available depending on offering type (risk-based or self-funded), line of business (e.g., small business, key accounts, public sector, national accounts or individuals) and clinical need. UnitedHealthcare Employer   Individual s clinical programs include: 
             
    wellness programs; 
                
    decision support; 
                
    utilization management; 
                
    case and disease management;  
                
    complex condition management; 
                
    on-site programs, including biometrics and flu shots; 
                
    incentives to reinforce positive behavior change; 
                
    mental health/substance use disorder management; and 
                
    employee assistance programs. 
     UnitedHealthcare Employer   Individual s comprehensive and integrated pharmaceutical care services promote lower costs by using formulary programs to produce better unit costs, encouraging consumers to use drugs that offer improved value and outcomes, helping consumers take actions to improve their health and supporting the appropriate use of drugs based on clinical evidence through physician and consumer education programs. 
  Specialty Offerings  . UnitedHealthcare Employer   Individual also delivers dental, vision, life, critical illness and disability product offerings through an integrated approach, using its network of more than 22,000 vision offices and more than 85,000 dental offices, in private and retail settings.  
  UnitedHealthcare Military   Veterans.   UnitedHealthcare Military   Veterans was the provider of health care services for nearly 3 million active duty and retired military service members and their families under the Department of Defense s (DoD) TRICARE Managed Care Support contract that concluded on January 1, 2018. 
  UnitedHealthcare Medicare   Retirement 
  UnitedHealthcare Medicare   Retirement provides health and well-being services to individuals age 50 and older, addressing their unique needs for preventive and acute health care services, as well as services dealing with chronic disease and other specialized issues common among older individuals. UnitedHealthcare Medicare   Retirement is fully dedicated to serving this growing senior market segment, providing products and services in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and most U.S. territories. UnitedHealthcare Medicare   Retirement has distinct pricing, underwriting, clinical program management and marketing capabilities dedicated to health products and services in this market. 
  UnitedHealthcare Medicare   Retirement offers a selection of products that allow people to obtain the health coverage and services they need as their circumstances change. UnitedHealthcare Medicare   Retirement is positioned to serve seniors who find that affordable, network-based care provided through Medicare Advantage plans meets their unique health care needs. For those who prefer traditional fee-for-service Medicare, UnitedHealthcare Medicare   Retirement offers both Medicare Supplement and Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit (Medicare Part D) prescription drug programs that supplement their government-sponsored Medicare by providing additional benefits and coverage options. Beneficiaries with special needs are served through UnitedHealthcare Medicare   Retirement Dual, Chronic and Institutional Special Needs Plans (SNPs) in many markets. UnitedHealthcare Medicare   Retirement services include care management and clinical management programs, a nurse health line service, 24-hour access to health care information, access to discounted health services from a network of care providers and administrative services.  
  UnitedHealthcare Medicare   Retirement has extensive distribution capabilities and experience, including direct marketing to consumers on behalf of its key clients: AARP, the nation s largest membership organization dedicated to the needs of people age 50 and over, and state and U.S. government agencies. Products are also offered through employer groups and agent channels. 
  UnitedHealthcare Medicare   Retirement s major product categories include: 
  Medicare Advantage.     UnitedHealthcare Medicare   Retirement provides health care coverage for seniors and other eligible Medicare beneficiaries primarily through the Medicare Advantage program administered by the Centers for Medicare   Medicaid Services (CMS), including Medicare Advantage HMO plans, preferred provider organization (PPO) plans, Point-of-Service plans, Private-Fee-for-Service plans and SNPs. Under the Medicare Advantage program, UnitedHealthcare Medicare   Retirement provides health insurance coverage in exchange for a fixed monthly premium per member from CMS plus, in some  
  
   3 

     Table of Contents  

cases, monthly consumer premiums. Premium amounts received from CMS vary based on the geographic areas in which members reside; demographic factors such as age, gender and institutionalized status; and the health status of the individual. Medicare Advantage plans are designed to compete at the local level, taking into account member and care provider preferences, competitor offerings,  our quality and cost initiatives, our historical financial results and the long-term payment rate outlook for each geographic area. UnitedHealthcare Medicare   Retirement served   4.4 million   people through its Medicare Advantage products as of December 31, 2017. 
  Built on more than 20 years of experience, UnitedHealthcare Medicare   Retirement s senior-focused care management model operates at a medical cost level below that of traditional Medicare, while helping seniors live healthier lives. Through UnitedHealth Group s HouseCalls program, nurse practitioners performed nearly 1.3 million in-home preventive care visits in 2017 to address unmet care opportunities and close gaps in care. For high-risk patients in certain care settings and programs, UnitedHealthcare Medicare   Retirement uses proprietary, automated medical record software that enables clinical care teams to capture and track patient data and clinical encounters, creating a comprehensive set of care information that bridges across home, hospital and nursing home care settings. Proprietary predictive modeling tools help identify people at high risk and allow care managers to create individualized care plans that help them obtain the right care, in the right place, at the right time. 
  Medicare Part D.   UnitedHealthcare Medicare   Retirement provides Medicare Part D benefits to beneficiaries throughout the United States and its territories through its Medicare Advantage and stand-alone Medicare Part D plans. The stand-alone Medicare Part D plans address a large spectrum of beneficiaries  needs and preferences for their prescription drug coverage, including low cost prescription options. Each of the plans includes the majority of the drugs covered by Medicare and provides varying levels of coverage to meet the diverse needs of Medicare beneficiaries. As of December 31, 2017, UnitedHealthcare enrolled 8.9 million people in the Medicare Part D programs, including 4.9 million individuals in the stand-alone Medicare Part D plans with the remainder in Medicare Advantage plans incorporating Medicare Part D coverage.  
  Medicare Supplement.     UnitedHealthcare Medicare   Retirement is currently serving 4.9 million seniors nationwide through various Medicare Supplement products in association with AARP. UnitedHealthcare Medicare   Retirement offers a full range of supplemental products at a diversity of price points. These products cover various levels of coinsurance and deductible gaps that seniors are exposed to in the traditional Medicare program. 
  Premium revenues from CMS represented   28%   of UnitedHealth Group s total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017, most of which were generated by UnitedHealthcare Medicare   Retirement.  
  UnitedHealthcare Community   State 
  UnitedHealthcare Community   State is dedicated to serving state programs that care for the economically disadvantaged, the medically underserved and those without the benefit of employer-funded health care coverage, in exchange for a monthly premium per member from the state program. In some cases, these premiums are subject to experience or risk adjustments. UnitedHealthcare Community   State s primary customers oversee Medicaid plans, Children s Health Insurance Programs (CHIP), SNPs, integrated Medicare-Medicaid plans (MMP) and other federal, state and community health care programs. As of December 31, 2017, UnitedHealthcare Community   State participated in programs in 28 states and the District of Columbia, and served   6.7 million   beneficiaries; including more than 1.1 million people through Medicaid expansion programs in 16 states under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA).  
  States using managed care services for Medicaid beneficiaries select health plans by using a formal bid process or by awarding individual contracts. A number of factors are considered by UnitedHealthcare Community   State when choosing programs for participation, including the state s commitment and consistency of support for its Medicaid managed care program in terms of service, innovation and funding; the eligible population base, both immediate and long term; and the structure of the projected program. UnitedHealthcare Community   State works with its state customers to advocate for actuarially sound rates, commensurate with medical cost trends. 
  The primary categories of eligibility for the programs served by UnitedHealthcare Community   State and its participation are: 
             
    Temporary Assistance to Needy Families, primarily women and children - 26 markets; 
                 
    Aged, Blind and Disabled - 22 markets; 
                 
    Medicaid Expansion - 16 markets; 
                
    Long-Term Services and Supports - 14 markets; 
                
    MMP - 2 markets; and 
                
    other programs (e.g., administrative services, childless adults, developmentally disabled) - 9 markets. 
     
   4 

     Table of Contents  

These health plans and care programs offered are designed to address the complex needs of the populations they serve, including the chronically ill, those with disabilities and people with a higher risk of medical, behavioral and social conditions. UnitedHealthcare Community   State administers benefits for the unique needs of children, pregnant women, adults, seniors and those who are institutionalized or are nursing home eligible. These individuals often live in areas that are medically underserved and are less likely to have a consistent relationship with the medical community or a care provider. These individuals also tend to face significant social and economic challenges. 
  UnitedHealthcare Community   State leverages the national capabilities of UnitedHealth Group locally, supporting effective care management, strong regulatory partnerships, greater administrative efficiency, improved clinical outcomes and the ability to adapt to a changing national and local market environment. UnitedHealthcare Community   State coordinates resources among family, physicians, other health care providers, and government and community-based agencies and organizations to facilitate continuous and effective care and often addresses other social determinants that can impact people s health status and health system usage.  
  Approximately 75% of the people in state Medicaid programs are served by managed care, but this population represents only 40% of total Medicaid spending. UnitedHealthcare Community   State s business development opportunities include entering fee-for-service markets converting to managed care, which represents a population of nearly 8 million people; and growing in existing managed care markets, including state expansions to populations with more complex needs requiring more sophisticated models of care. This expansion includes integrated management of physical, behavioral, long-term care services and supports, and social services by applying strong data analytics and community-based collaboration.  
  UnitedHealthcare Community   State continues to evolve its clinical model to enhance quality and the clinical experience for the people it serves. The model allows UnitedHealthcare Community   State to quickly identify the people who could benefit most from more highly coordinated care; typically, the 5% of members who are most at risk and drive over 50% of states  medical costs.  
  UnitedHealthcare Global 
  UnitedHealthcare Global serves more than 4 million people with medical benefits and 2 million with dental benefits, residing principally in Brazil, but also in more than 130 other countries. UnitedHealthcare Global owns and operates nearly 150 hospitals, specialty centers, primary care and emergency services clinics in Brazil and Portugal. UnitedHealthcare Global provides a comprehensive range of health and mobilization capabilities and supports the health systems of individual nations with support for improving health care financing and delivery. Clients include multi-national and local businesses, governments and individuals around the world.  
  Global Markets.   UnitedHealthcare Global serves local populations in select markets around the world, primarily in Brazil and Portugal, by touching nearly every aspect of health care and leveraging expertise in clinical care management and health care data to improve outcomes, raise quality and constrain costs.  
  In Brazil, Amil provides health benefits to 4 million people through a broad network of owned and affiliated clinics, hospitals and care providers. Dental benefits are also provided to 2 million people. Amil s members have access to both an owned care delivery system, as well as a contracted provider network of nearly 21,000 physicians and other health care professionals, approximately 1,800 hospitals and nearly 7,000 laboratories and diagnostic imaging centers. Americas Servi os M dicos offers health care delivery in Brazil through hospitals, ambulatory clinics and surgery centers to Amil members and the external payer market. 
  Lus adas Sa de provides clinical services in Portugal through an owned network of hospitals and outpatient clinics.  
  Global Solutions  . UnitedHealthcare Global includes other diversified global health services with a variety of offerings for international customers, including:  
             
    Global Insurance, which offers expatriate insurance solution for globally mobile employees and their families; 
                
    Assistance and Risk provides a global medical network and evacuation services; 
                
    Global Medical provides remote medical services, telemedicine, supplies and equipment, and end-to-end remote medical services; and 
                
    U.S. Networks assists foreign insurers and employers navigating the U.S. health care system. 
     
   5 

     Table of Contents  

Optum 
  Optum is a health services business serving the broad health care marketplace, including: 
             
    Those who need care: the consumers who need the right support, information, resources and products to achieve their health goals. 
                
    Those who provide care: pharmacies, hospitals, physicians, practices and other health care facilities seeking to modernize the health system and support the best possible patient care and experiences. 
                
    Those who pay for care: employers, health plans, and state, federal and municipal agencies devoted to ensuring the populations they sponsor receive high-quality care, administered and delivered efficiently and effectively. 
                
    Those who innovate for care: global life sciences organizations dedicated to developing more effective approaches to care, enabling technologies and medicines that improve care delivery and health outcomes. 
     Optum operates three business segments leveraging distinctive capabilities in data and analytics, pharmacy care services, population health, health care delivery and health care operations: 
             
    OptumHealth focuses on care delivery, care management, wellness and consumer engagement, and health financial services; 
                
    OptumInsight specializes in data and analytics and other health care information technology services, and delivers operational services and support; and  
                
    OptumRx provides pharmacy care services.  
     OptumHealth 
  OptumHealth is a diversified health and wellness business serving the physical, emotional and health-related financial needs of 91 million unique individuals. OptumHealth enables population health management through programs offered by employers, payers, government entities and directly with the care delivery system. OptumHealth products and services deliver value by improving quality and patient satisfaction while lowering cost. OptumHealth builds high-performing networks and centers of excellence across the care continuum, by working directly with physicians to advance population health management and by coordinating care for the most medically complex patients. 
  OptumHealth serves patients and care providers through its local ambulatory care services business and delivers care through a physician-led, patient-centric and data-driven organization comprised of more than 30,000 employed, managed and contracted physicians. OptumHealth also enables care providers  transition from traditional, fee-for-service care delivery to performance-based delivery and payment models that put patient health and outcomes first, such as those emerging through accountable care organizations (ACOs) and local care provider partnerships. Through strategic partnerships, alliances and ownership arrangements OptumHealth helps care providers adopt new approaches and technologies that improve the coordination of care across all providers involved in patient care. MedExpress  over 240 neighborhood care centers provide urgent and walk-in care services with a consumer-friendly approach and Surgical Care Affiliates  200 independent ambulatory surgical centers and surgical hospitals provide high-value surgical services at a lower cost than a traditional in-patient hospital setting. 
  OptumHealth s mobile care delivery business delivers occupational health and medical services to government customers, with a particular focus on the U.S. military. 
  OptumHealth serves people through population health management services that meet both the preventive care and health intervention needs of consumers across the care continuum - physical health and wellness, mental health, complex medical conditions, disease management, hospitalization and post-acute care. This includes offering access to proprietary networks of provider specialists in many clinical specialties, including behavioral health, organ transplant, chiropractic and physical therapy. OptumHealth engages consumers in managing their health, including guidance, tools and programs that help them achieve their health goals and maintain healthy lifestyles.  
  Optum Financial Services, through Optum Bank, a wholly-owned subsidiary, serves consumers through 4.8 million health savings and other accounts with over $8 billion in assets under management as of December 31, 2017. During 2017, Optum Bank processed nearly $150 billion in medical payments to physicians and other health care providers. Organizations across the health system rely on Optum to manage and improve payment flows through its highly automated, scalable, electronic payment systems. 
  OptumHealth offers its products on a risk basis, where it assumes responsibility for health care costs in exchange for a monthly premium per individual served, on an administrative fee basis, under which it manages or administers delivery of the products or services in exchange for a fixed monthly fee per individual served, or on a fee-for-service basis, where it delivers medical services to patients in exchange for a contracted fee. For its financial services offerings, OptumHealth charges fees and earns investment income on managed funds. 
  
   6 

     Table of Contents  

OptumHealth sells its products primarily through its direct sales force, strategic collaborations and external producers in three markets: employers (which includes the sub-markets of large, mid-sized and small employers), payers (which includes the sub-markets of health plans, TPAs, underwriter/stop-loss carriers and individual market intermediaries) and government entities (which includes states, CMS, DoD, the Veterans Administration and other federal procurement agencies).  
  OptumInsight 
  OptumInsight provides services, technology and health care expertise to major participants in the health care industry. OptumInsight s capabilities are focused on data and analytics, technology and information that help improve the quality of care and drive greater efficiency in the health care system. Hospital systems, physicians, health plans, governments, life sciences companies and other organizations that comprise the health care industry depend on OptumInsight to help them improve performance, achieve efficiency, reduce costs, advance quality, meet compliance mandates and modernize their core operating systems to meet the changing needs of the health system. 
  Many of OptumInsight s software and information products and professional services are delivered over extended periods, often several years. OptumInsight maintains an order backlog to track unearned revenues under these long-term arrangements. The backlog consists of estimated revenue from signed contracts, other legally binding agreements and anticipated contract renewals based on historical experience with OptumInsight s customers. OptumInsight s aggregate backlog at December 31, 2017, was $15.0 billion, of which $8.3 billion is expected to be realized within the next 12 months. This includes $5.4 billion related to intersegment agreements, all of which are in the current portion of the backlog. OptumInsight s aggregate backlog at December 31, 2016, was $12.6 billion. OptumInsight cannot provide any assurance that it will be able to realize all of the revenues included in the backlog due to uncertainties with regard to the timing and scope of services and the potential for cancellation, non-renewal or early termination of service arrangements.  
  OptumInsight s products and services are sold primarily through a direct sales force. OptumInsight s products are also supported and distributed through an array of alliances and business partnerships with other technology vendors, who integrate and interface OptumInsight s products with their applications. 
  OptumInsight believes it is well positioned to address the needs of four primary market segments: care providers (e.g., physicians and hospital systems), health plans, governments and life sciences companies. 
  Care Providers.   Serving more than four out of five U.S. hospitals and more than 100,000 physicians, OptumInsight assists care providers in meeting their challenge to improve patient outcomes and care amid changing payment models and pressures. OptumInsight brings a broad array of solutions to help care providers meet these challenges, with particular focus on clinical performance and quality improvement, population health management, data management and analytics, revenue management, cost containment, compliance, cloud-enabled collaboration and consumer engagement. 
  Health Plans.   OptumInsight serves approximately 300 health plans through cost-effective, technology-enabled solutions that help them improve efficiency, understand and optimize growth while managing risk, deliver on clinical performance and compliance goals, and build and manage strong networks of care. 
  Governments.   OptumInsight provides services tailored to government payers, including data and analytics technology, claims management and payment accuracy services, and strategic consulting. 
  Life Sciences.   OptumInsight provides services to global life sciences companies. These companies look to OptumInsight for data, analytics and expertise in core areas of health economics and outcomes research, market access consulting, integrated clinical and health care claims data and informatics services, epidemiology and drug safety, and patient reported outcomes. 
  OptumRx 
  OptumRx provides a full spectrum of pharmacy care services to more than 65 million people in the United States through its network of more than 67,000 retail pharmacies, multiple home delivery and specialty pharmacies and through the provision of home infusion services. OptumRx s comprehensive whole-person approach to pharmacy care services integrates demographic, medical, laboratory, pharmaceutical and other clinical data and applies analytics to drive clinical care insight to support care treatments and compliance, benefiting clients and individuals through enhanced services, elevated clinical quality and cost trend management. 
  In 2017, OptumRx managed approximately $85 billion in pharmaceutical spending, including $35 billion in specialty pharmaceutical spending. 
  OptumRx provides pharmacy care services to a number of health plans, including a substantial majority of UnitedHealthcare members, large national employer plans, unions and trusts and government entities. OptumRx s distribution system consists primarily of health insurance brokers and other health care consultants and direct sales.  
  
   7 

     Table of Contents  

As of December 31, 2017, OptumRx operated four home delivery pharmacies in the United States, which provides patients with access to maintenance medications and enables OptumRx to manage clients  drug costs through operating efficiencies and economies of scale.  As of December 31, 2017, OptumRx s specialty pharmacy operations included 16 specialty mail order pharmacies located throughout the United States that are used for delivery of advanced medications to individuals with chronic or genetic diseases and disorders.  
  OptumRx offers multiple clinical programs and services to help clients manage overall pharmacy and health care costs in a clinically appropriate manner, which are designed to promote good health outcomes, and to help target inappropriate utilization and non-adherence to medication, each of which may result in adverse medical events that negatively impact member health and client pharmacy and medical spend. OptumRx provides various utilization management, medication management, quality assurance, adherence and counseling programs to complement the client s plan design and clinical strategies. OptumRx offers a distinctive approach to integrating the management of medical and pharmaceutical care, using data and advanced analytics to help improve comprehensive decision-making, elevate quality, close gaps in care and reduce costs for customers and members. 
   
  GOVERNMENT REGULATION  
  Most of our businesses are subject to comprehensive federal, state and international laws and regulations. We are regulated by federal, state and international regulatory agencies that generally have discretion to issue regulations and interpret and enforce laws and rules. The regulations can vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and the interpretation of existing laws and rules also may change periodically. Domestic and international governments continue to enact and consider various legislative and regulatory proposals that could materially impact certain aspects of the health care system. New laws, regulations and rules, or changes in the interpretation of existing laws, regulations and rules, including as a result of changes in the political climate, could adversely affect our business.  
  If we fail to comply with, or fail to respond quickly and appropriately to changes in, applicable laws, regulations and rules, our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. See    Part I, Item 1A,  Risk Factors     for a discussion of the risks related to our compliance with federal, state and international laws and regulations. 
    
  Federal Laws and Regulation  
  We are subject to various levels of U.S. federal regulation. For example, when we contract with the federal government, we are subject to federal laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts. CMS regulates our UnitedHealthcare businesses and certain aspects of our Optum businesses. Payments by CMS to our businesses are subject to regulations, including those governing fee-for-service and the submission of information relating to the health status of enrollees for purposes of determining the amounts of certain payments to us. CMS also has the right to audit our performance to determine our compliance with CMS contracts and regulations and the quality of care we provide to Medicare beneficiaries. Our commercial business is further subject to CMS audits related to medical loss ratios (MLRs) and risk adjustment data. 
  UnitedHealthcare Community   State has Medicaid and CHIP contracts that are subject to federal regulations regarding services to be provided to Medicaid enrollees, payment for those services and other aspects of these programs. There are many regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid compliance and the regulatory environment with respect to these programs is complex. We are also subject to federal law and regulations relating to the administration of contracts with federal agencies. In addition, our business is subject to laws and regulations relating to consumer protection, anti-fraud and abuse, anti-kickbacks, false claims, prohibited referrals, inappropriately reducing or limiting health care services, anti-money laundering, securities and antitrust.  
  The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act  . On December 22, 2017, the U.S. federal government enacted a tax bill (Tax Cuts and Jobs Act or Tax Reform). The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act changed existing United States tax law and includes numerous provisions that will affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. For instance, Tax Reform reduced the U.S. corporate income tax rate and changed business-related exclusions and deductions and credits. 
  Privacy, Security and Data Standards Regulation.   The administrative simplification provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (HIPAA), apply to both the group and individual health insurance markets, including self-funded employee benefit plans. Federal regulations related to HIPAA contain minimum standards for electronic transactions and code sets and for the privacy and security of protected health information. 
  The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH) imposed requirements on uses and disclosures of health information; included contracting requirements for HIPAA business associate agreements; extended parts of HIPAA privacy and security provisions to business associates; added federal data breach notification requirements for  
  
   8 

     Table of Contents  

covered entities and business associates and reporting requirements to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Federal Trade Commission and, in some cases, to the local media; strengthened enforcement and imposed higher financial penalties for HIPAA violations and, in certain cases, imposed criminal penalties for individuals, including employees. In the conduct of our business, depending on the circumstances, we may act as either a covered entity or a business associate. Federal consumer protection laws may also apply in some instances to privacy and security practices related to personally identifiable information.  
  The use and disclosure of individually identifiable health data by our businesses is also regulated in some instances by other federal laws, including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA) or state statutes implementing GLBA. These federal laws and state statutes generally require insurers to provide customers with notice regarding how their non-public personal health and financial information is used and the opportunity to  opt out  of certain disclosures before the insurer shares such information with a third party, and generally require safeguards for the protection of personal information. Neither the GLBA nor HIPAA privacy regulations preempt more stringent state laws and regulations that may apply to us, as discussed below.  
  ERISA.   The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), regulates how our services are provided to or through certain types of employer-sponsored health benefit plans. ERISA is a set of laws and regulations that is subject to periodic interpretation by the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) as well as the federal courts. ERISA sets forth standards on how our business units may do business with employers who sponsor employee health benefit plans, particularly those that maintain self-funded plans. Regulations established by the DOL subject us to additional requirements for administration of benefits, claims payment and member appeals under health care plans governed by ERISA.  
  State Laws and Regulation  
  Health Care Regulation  .   Our insurance and HMO subsidiaries must be licensed by the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. All of the states in which our subsidiaries offer insurance and HMO products regulate those products and operations. The states require periodic financial reports and establish minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners has adopted model regulations that, where adopted by states, require expanded governance practices and risk and solvency assessment reporting. Most states have adopted these or similar measures to expand the scope of regulations relating to corporate governance and internal control activities of HMOs and insurance companies. We are required to maintain a risk management framework and file a confidential self-assessment report with state insurance regulators. Reports are filed annually with Connecticut, our lead regulator, and with New York, as required by that state s regulation. Certain states have also adopted their own regulations for minimum MLRs with which health plans must comply. In addition, a number of state legislatures have enacted or are contemplating significant reforms of their health insurance markets, either independent of or to comply with or be eligible for grants or other incentives in connection with the ACA, which may affect our operations and our financial results. 
  Health plans and insurance companies are regulated under state insurance holding company regulations. Such regulations generally require registration with applicable state departments of insurance and the filing of reports that describe capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain intercompany transactions and general business operations. Most state insurance holding company laws and regulations require prior regulatory approval of acquisitions and material intercompany transfers of assets, as well as transactions between the regulated companies and their parent holding companies or affiliates. These laws may restrict the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding companies.  
  Some of our business activity is subject to other health care-related regulations and requirements, including PPO, Managed Care Organization (MCO), utilization review (UR), TPA, pharmacy care services, durable medical equipment or care provider-related regulations and licensure requirements. These regulations differ from state to state and may contain network, contracting, product and rate, licensing and financial and reporting requirements. There are laws and regulations that set specific standards for delivery of services, appeals, grievances and payment of claims, adequacy of health care professional networks, fraud prevention, protection of consumer health information, pricing and underwriting practices and covered benefits and services. State health care anti-fraud and abuse prohibitions encompass a wide range of activities, including kickbacks for referral of members, billing for unnecessary medical services and improper marketing. Certain of our businesses are subject to state general agent, broker and sales distributions laws and regulations. UnitedHealthcare Community   State and certain of our Optum businesses are subject to regulation by state Medicaid agencies that oversee the provision of benefits to our Medicaid and CHIP beneficiaries and to our dually eligible (for Medicare and Medicaid) beneficiaries. We also contract with state governmental entities and are subject to state laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of state government contracts.  
  State Privacy and Security Regulations.   A number of states have adopted laws and regulations that may affect our privacy and security practices, such as state laws that govern the use, disclosure and protection of social security numbers and protected health information or that are designed to implement GLBA or protect credit card account data. State and local authorities increasingly focus on the importance of protecting individuals from identity theft, with a significant number of states enacting  
  
   9 

     Table of Contents  

laws requiring businesses to meet minimum cyber-security standards and notify individuals of security breaches involving personal information. State consumer protection laws may also apply to privacy and security practices related to personally identifiable information, including information related to consumers and care providers. Different approaches to state privacy and insurance regulation and varying enforcement philosophies in the different states may materially and adversely affect our ability to standardize our products and services across state lines. See    Part I, Item 1A,  Risk Factors     for a discussion of the risks related to compliance with state privacy and security regulations.  
  Corporate Practice of Medicine and Fee-Splitting Laws.   Certain of our businesses function as direct medical service providers and, as such, are subject to additional laws and regulations. Some states have corporate practice of medicine laws that prohibit specific types of entities from practicing medicine or employing physicians to practice medicine. Moreover, some states prohibit certain entities from sharing in the fees or revenues of a professional practice (fee-splitting). These prohibitions may be statutory or regulatory, or may be imposed through judicial or regulatory interpretation. The laws, regulations and interpretations in certain states have been subject to limited judicial and regulatory interpretation and are subject to change. 
  Pharmacy and PBM Regulations  
  OptumRx s businesses include home delivery and specialty pharmacies that must be licensed as pharmacies in the states in which they are located. Certain of our home delivery and specialty pharmacies must also register with the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) and individual state controlled substance authorities to dispense controlled substances. In addition to the laws and regulations in the states where our home delivery and specialty pharmacies are located, laws and regulations in non-resident states where we deliver pharmaceuticals may also apply, including those requiring us to register with the board of pharmacy in the non-resident state. These non-resident states generally expect our home delivery and specialty pharmacies to follow the laws of the state in which the pharmacies are located, but some states also require us to comply with the laws of that non-resident state when pharmaceuticals are delivered there. As certain of our home delivery and specialty pharmacies maintain eligibility as Medicare and state Medicaid providers, their participation in the programs requires them to comply with the applicable Medicare and Medicaid provider rules and regulations. Other laws and regulations affecting our home delivery and specialty pharmacies include federal and state statutes and regulations governing the labeling, packaging, advertising and adulteration of prescription drugs and dispensing of controlled substances. See    Part I, Item 1A,  Risk Factors     for a discussion of the risks related to our pharmacy care services businesses. 
  Legislation seeking to regulate PBM activities introduced or enacted in a number of states could impact our business practices.  Additionally, organizations like the National Association of Insurance Commissioners periodically issue model regulations and credentialing organizations, like the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) and the Utilization Review Accreditation Commission (URAC), may establish standards that impact PBM, mail or specialty pharmacy activities. While these model regulations and standards do not have the force of law, they may influence states to adopt their recommendations and impact the services we deliver to our clients. There is both federal and state legislation affecting the ability to limit access to a pharmacy provider network or remove network providers. Additionally, many states limit our ability to manage and establish maximum allowable costs for generic prescription drugs. With respect to formulary services, a number of government entities, including CMS, HHS and state departments of insurance, regulate the administration of prescription drug benefits offered through federal or state exchanges.  Many states also regulate the scope of prescription drug coverage, as well as the delivery channels to receive such prescriptions, for insurers, MCOs and Medicaid managed care plans.  These regulations could limit or preclude (i) certain plan designs, (ii) limited networks, (iii) requirements to use particular care providers or distribution channel, (iv) copayment differentials among providers and (v) formulary tiering practices.   
  Consumer Protection Laws 
  Certain of our businesses participate in direct-to-consumer activities and are subject to regulations applicable to on-line communications and other general consumer protection laws and regulations such as the Federal Tort Claims Act, the Federal Postal Service Act and the Federal Trade Commission s (FTC) Telemarketing Sales Rule. Most states also have similar consumer protection laws.  
  Certain laws, such as the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, give the FTC, Federal Communications Commission ( FCC ) and state attorneys general the ability to regulate, and bring enforcement actions relating to, telemarketing practices and certain automated outbound contacts such as phone calls, texts or emails. Under certain circumstances, these laws may provide consumers with a private right of action. Violations of these laws could result in substantial statutory penalties and other sanctions. 
  Banking Regulation 
  Optum Bank is subject to regulation by federal banking regulators, including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which performs annual examinations to ensure that the bank is operating in accordance with federal safety and soundness  
  
   10 

     Table of Contents  

requirements, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which may perform periodic examinations to ensure that the bank is in compliance with applicable consumer protection statutes, regulations and agency guidelines. Optum Bank is also subject to supervision and regulation by the Utah State Department of Financial Institutions, which carries out annual examinations to ensure that the bank is operating in accordance with state safety and soundness requirements and performs periodic examinations of the bank s compliance with applicable state banking statutes, regulations and agency guidelines. In the event of unfavorable examination results from any of these agencies, the bank could become subject to increased operational expenses and capital requirements, enhanced governmental oversight and monetary penalties. 
  International Regulation 
  Certain of our businesses operate internationally and are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they are organized or conduct business. These regulatory regimes vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In addition, our non-U.S. businesses and operations are subject to U.S. laws that regulate the conduct and activities of U.S.-based businesses operating abroad, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which prohibits offering, promising, providing or authorizing others to give anything of value to a foreign government official to obtain or retain business or otherwise secure a business advantage.  
  COMPETITION  
  As a diversified health care company, we operate in highly competitive markets. Our competitors include managed health care companies, insurance companies, HMOs, TPAs, PBMs and business services outsourcing companies, health care professionals that have formed networks to contract directly with employers or with CMS, specialty benefit providers, government entities, population health management companies and various health information and consulting companies. For our UnitedHealthcare businesses, our competitors include Aetna Inc., Anthem, Inc., Centene Corporation, Cigna Corporation, Humana Inc., Kaiser Permanente, numerous for-profit and not-for-profit organizations operating under licenses from the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association and, with respect to our Brazilian operations, several established competitors in Brazil and other enterprises that serve more limited geographic areas. For our OptumRx businesses, our competitors include CVS Health Corporation, Express Scripts, Inc. and Prime Therapeutics LLC. New entrants into the markets in which we compete, as well as consolidation within these markets, also contribute to a competitive environment. We compete on the basis of the sales, marketing and pricing of our products and services; product innovation; consumer engagement and satisfaction; the level and quality of products and services; care delivery; network and clinical management capabilities; market share; product distribution systems; efficiency of administration operations; financial strength; and marketplace reputation. If we fail to compete effectively to maintain or increase our market share, including by maintaining or increasing enrollments in businesses providing health benefits, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. See    Part I, Item 1A,  Risk Factors,     for additional discussion of our risks related to competition.  
    
  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS 
  We have obtained trademark registration for the UnitedHealth Group, UnitedHealthcare and Optum names and logos. We own registrations for certain of our other trademarks in the United States and abroad. We hold a portfolio of patents and have patent applications pending from time to time. We are not substantially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents. 
  Unless otherwise noted, trademarks appearing in this report are trademarks owned by us. We disclaim any proprietary interest in the marks and names of others. 
  EMPLOYEES 
  As of   December 31, 2017  , we employed 260,000 individuals. 
  
   11 

     Table of Contents  

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  
  The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of   February 13, 2018  , including the business experience of each executive officer during the past five years: 
                       Name 
      
    Age 
      
    Position 
      Stephen J. Hemsley 
      
    65 
      
    Executive Chair of the Board 
      David S. Wichmann 
      
    55 
      
    Chief Executive Officer 
      Steven H. Nelson 
      
    58 
      
    Executive Vice President; Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealthcare 
      Larry C. Renfro 
      
    64 
      
    Vice Chairman; Chief Executive Officer of Optum 
      John F. Rex 
      
    55 
      
    Executive Vice President; Chief Financial Officer 
      Thomas E. Roos 
      
    45 
      
    Senior Vice President; Chief Accounting Officer 
      Marianne D. Short 
      
    66 
      
    Executive Vice President; Chief Legal Officer 
      D. Ellen Wilson 
      
    60 
      
    Executive Vice President, Human Capital 

Our Board of Directors elects executive officers annually. Our executive officers serve until their successors are duly elected and qualified, or until their earlier death, resignation, removal or disqualification. 
  Mr. Hemsley   is Executive Chair of the Board of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since September 2017. Mr. Hemsley previously served as Chief Executive Officer from 2006 to August 2017. He has been a member of the Board of Directors since 2000.  
  Mr. Wichmann   is Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group and a member of the Board of Directors and has served in that capacity since September 2017. Mr. Wichmann previously served as President of UnitedHealth Group from November 2014 to August 2017. Mr. Wichmann also served as Chief Financial Officer of UnitedHealth Group from January 2011 to June 2016. From April 2008 to November 2014, Mr. Wichmann served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of UnitedHealth Group Operations. 
  Mr. Nelson   is Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealthcare and has served in that capacity since August 2017. Mr. Nelson served as Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealthcare s Medicare   Retirement, from March 2014 to August 2017. He served as Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealthcare Community   State from August 2012 to March 2014. From January 2008 to July 2012 he served as President of UnitedHealthcare Community   State and then Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealthcare Employer   Individual s West Region business.  
  Mr. Renfro   is Vice Chairman of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of Optum. Mr. Renfro has served as Vice Chairman of UnitedHealth Group since November 2014 and Chief Executive Officer of Optum since July 2011. From January 2011 to July 2011, Mr. Renfro served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group. 
  Mr. Rex   is Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since June 2016. From March 2012 to June 2016, Mr. Rex served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Optum. Prior to joining Optum in 2012, Mr. Rex spent over a decade at JP Morgan, a global financial services firm, and its predecessors, concluding his tenure as a Managing Director. 
  Mr. Roos   is Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since August 2015. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Mr. Roos was a Partner at Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered accounting firm, from September 2007 to August 2015. 
  Ms. Short   is Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since January 2013. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Ms. Short served as the Managing Partner at Dorsey   Whitney LLP, an international law firm, from January 2007 to December 2012. 
  Ms. Wilson   is Executive Vice President, Human Capital of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since June 2013. From January 2012 to May 2013, Ms. Wilson served as Chief Administrative Officer of Optum. Prior to joining Optum, Ms. Wilson served for 17 years at Fidelity Investments, concluding her tenure there as head of Human Resources. 
  
   12 

     Table of Contents  

Additional Information  
  UnitedHealth Group Incorporated was incorporated in January 1977 in Minnesota. On July 1, 2015, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated changed its state of incorporation from Minnesota to Delaware pursuant to a plan of conversion. Our executive offices are located at UnitedHealth Group Center, 9900 Bren Road East, Minnetonka, Minnesota 55343; our telephone number is (952) 936-1300.  
  You can access our website at   www.unitedhealthgroup.com   to learn more about our company. From that site, you can download and print copies of our annual reports to shareholders, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, along with amendments to those reports. You can also download from our website our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and corporate governance policies, including our Principles of Governance, Board of Directors Committee Charters and Code of Conduct. We make periodic reports and amendments available, free of charge, on our website, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We will also provide a copy of any of our corporate governance policies published on our website free of charge, upon request. To request a copy of any of these documents, please submit your request to: UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, 9900 Bren Road East, Minnetonka, MN 55343, Attn: Corporate Secretary. Information on or linked to our website is neither part of nor incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other SEC filings. 
  Our transfer agent, Wells Fargo Shareowner Services, can help you with a variety of shareholder-related services, including change of address, lost stock certificates, transfer of stock to another person and other administrative services. You can write to our transfer agent at: Wells Fargo Shareowner Services, P.O. Box 64854, St. Paul, Minnesota 55164-0854, email   stocktransfer@wellsfargo.com  , or telephone (800) 468-9716 or (651) 450-4064.  
   
  ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS  
  CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS 
  The statements, estimates, projections or outlook contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). When used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in future filings by us with the SEC, in our news releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our executive officers, the words  believe,   expect,   intend,   estimate,   anticipate,   forecast,   outlook,   plan,   project,   should  or similar words or phrases are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are intended to take advantage of the  safe harbor  provisions of the PSLRA. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement in this report speaks only as of the date of this report and, except as required by law; we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including unanticipated events, after the date of this report. 
  The following discussion contains cautionary statements regarding our business that investors and others should consider. We do not undertake to address in future filings or communications regarding our business or results of operations how any of these factors may have caused our results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications. In addition, any of the matters discussed below may have affected past, as well as current, forward-looking statements about future results. Any or all forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in any other public filings or statements we make may turn out to be wrong. Our forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors discussed below will be important in determining our future results. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify.  
  If we fail to estimate, price for and manage our medical costs in an effective manner, the profitability of our risk-based products and services could decline and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.  
  Through our risk-based benefit products, we assume the risk of both medical and administrative costs for our customers in return for monthly premiums. Premium revenues from risk-based benefits products comprise nearly 80% of our total consolidated revenues. We generally use approximately 80% to 85% of our premium revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to these customers. The profitability of our products depends in large part on our ability to predict, price for and effectively manage medical costs. In this regard, federal and state regulatory requirements obligate our commercial, Medicare Advantage and certain state-based Medicaid health plans to maintain minimum MLRs, which could make it more difficult for us to obtain price increases for our products. In addition, our OptumHealth business negotiates capitation arrangements with commercial third-party payers. Under the typical capitation arrangement, the health care provider receives a fixed percentage of a third-party payer s premiums to cover all or a defined portion of the medical costs provided to the  
  
   13 

     Table of Contents  

capitated member. If we fail to predict accurately, price for or manage the costs of providing care to our capitated members, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 
  We manage medical costs through underwriting criteria, product design, negotiation of favorable provider contracts and care management programs. Total medical costs are affected by the number of individual services rendered, the cost of each service and the type of service rendered. Our premium revenue on commercial policies and Medicaid contracts are typically based on a fixed monthly rate per individual served for a 12-month period and is generally priced one to six months before the contract commences. Our revenue on Medicare policies is based on bids submitted to CMS in June the year before the contract year. Although we base the commercial and Medicaid premiums we charge and our Medicare bids on our estimates of future medical costs over the fixed contract period, many factors may cause actual costs to exceed those estimated and reflected in premiums or bids. These factors may include medical cost inflation, increased use of services, increased cost of individual services, natural catastrophes or other large-scale medical emergencies, epidemics, the introduction of new or costly drugs, treatments and technology, new treatment guidelines, new mandated benefits (such as the expansion of essential benefits coverage) or other regulatory changes and insured population characteristics. Relatively small differences between predicted and actual medical costs or utilization rates as a percentage of revenues can result in significant changes in our financial results. For example, if our 2017 medical costs for commercial insured products were 1% higher, without proportionally higher revenues from such products, our annual net earnings for 2017 would have been reduced by approximately $235 million, excluding any offsetting impact from risk adjustment or from reduced premium rebates due to minimum MLRs. 
  In addition, the financial results we report for any particular period include estimates of costs that have been incurred for which claims are still outstanding. These estimates involve an extensive degree of judgment. If these estimates prove inaccurate, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.  
  Our business activities are highly regulated and new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their enforcement or application could materially and adversely affect our business. 
  We are regulated by federal, state and local governments in the United States and other countries where we do business. Our insurance and HMO subsidiaries must be licensed by and are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. For example, states require periodic financial reports and enforce minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. Health plans and insurance companies are also regulated under state insurance holding company regulations and some of our activities may be subject to other health care-related regulations and requirements, including those relating to PPOs, MCOs, UR and TPA-related regulations and licensure requirements. Some of our UnitedHealthcare and Optum businesses hold government contracts or provide services related to government contracts and are subject to U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. self-referral, anti-kickback, medical necessity, risk adjustment, false claims and other laws and regulations governing government contractors and the use of government funds. In addition, under state guaranty association laws, certain insurance companies can be assessed (up to prescribed limits) for certain obligations to the policyholders and claimants of impaired or insolvent insurance companies that write the same line or similar lines of business. Some states have similar laws relating to HMOs and other payers such as consumer operated and oriented plans (co-ops) established under the ACA. Any such assessment could expose our insurance entities and other insurers to the risk of paying a portion of an impaired or insolvent insurance company s claims through state guaranty associations. 
  Certain of our businesses provide products or services to various government agencies. Our relationships with these government agencies are subject to the terms of contracts that we hold with the agencies and to laws and regulations regarding government contracts. Among others, certain laws and regulations restrict or prohibit companies from performing work for government agencies that might be viewed as an actual or potential conflict of interest. These laws may limit our ability to pursue and perform certain types of work, thereby materially and adversely affecting our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.  
  Certain of our Optum businesses are also subject to regulations that are distinct from those faced by our insurance and HMO subsidiaries, including, for example, state telemedicine regulations; debt collection laws; banking regulations; distributor and producer licensing requirements; state corporate practice of medicine doctrines; fee-splitting rules; and health care facility licensure and certificate of need requirements, some of which could impact our relationships with physicians, hospitals and customers. These risks and uncertainties may materially and adversely affect our ability to market or provide our products and services, or to do so at targeted operating margins, or may increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate. 
  The laws and rules governing our businesses and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change. For example, legislative, administrative and public policy changes to the ACA are being debated, and we cannot predict if the ACA will be further modified or repealed or replaced. Additionally, the integration into our businesses of entities that we acquire may affect the way in which existing laws and rules apply to us, including subjecting us to laws and rules that did not previously apply to us. The broad latitude given to the agencies administering, interpreting and enforcing current and future regulations governing our businesses could force us to change how we do business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase our  
  
   14 

     Table of Contents  

health care and administrative costs and capital requirements, or expose us to increased liability in courts for coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other actions. 
  We also must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of our products and services, increase prices for certain regulated products and services and complete certain acquisitions and dispositions or integrate certain acquisitions. For example, premium rates for our health insurance and managed care products are subject to regulatory review or approval in many states and by the federal government. Additionally, we must submit data on all proposed rate increases on many of our products to HHS for monitoring purposes. Geographic and product expansions may be subject to state and federal regulatory approvals. Delays in obtaining necessary approvals or our failure to obtain or maintain adequate approvals could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.  
  Certain of our businesses operate internationally and are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they are organized or conduct business. These regulatory regimes encompass, among other matters, local and cross-border taxation, licensing, tariffs, intellectual property, investment, capital (including minimum solvency margin and reserve requirements), management control, labor, anti-fraud, anti-corruption and privacy and data protection regulations (including requirements for cross-border data transfers) that vary by jurisdiction. We currently operate outside of the United States and in the future may acquire or commence additional businesses based outside of the United States, increasing our exposure to non-U.S. regulatory regimes. For example, our UnitedHealthcare Brazil business subjects us to Brazilian laws and regulations affecting hospitals, managed care and insurance industries and to regulation by Brazilian regulators, including the national regulatory agency for private health insurance and plans, the Ag ncia Nacional de Sa de Suplementar, whose approach to the interpretation, implementation and enforcement of industry regulations could differ from the approach taken by U.S. regulators. In addition, our non-U.S. businesses and operations are subject to U.S. laws that regulate the conduct and activities of U.S.-based businesses operating abroad, such as the FCPA, which prohibits offering, promising, providing or authorizing others to give anything of value to a foreign government official to obtain or retain business or otherwise secure a business advantage. Our failure to comply with U.S. or non-U.S. laws and regulations governing our conduct outside the United States or to establish constructive relations with non-U.S. regulators could adversely affect our ability to market our products and services, or to do so at targeted operating margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  
  The health care industry is also regularly subject to negative publicity, including as a result of governmental investigations, adverse media coverage and political debate surrounding industry regulation. Negative publicity may adversely affect our stock price and damage our reputation in various markets. 
  As a result of our participation in various government health care programs, both as a payer and as a service provider to payers, we are exposed to additional risks associated with program funding, enrollments, payment adjustments, audits and government investigations that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.  
  We participate in various federal, state and local government health care benefit programs, including as a payer in Medicare Advantage, Medicare Part D, various Medicaid programs and CHIP, and receive substantial revenues from these programs. Certain of our Optum businesses also provide services to payers participating in government health care programs. A reduction or less than expected increase, or a protracted delay, in government funding for these programs or change in allocation methodologies, or, as is a typical feature of many government contracts, termination of the contract at the option of the government, may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 
  The government health care programs in which we participate generally are subject to frequent changes, including changes that may reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible for coverage, reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment levels, reduce our participation in certain service areas or markets, or increase our administrative or medical costs under such programs. Revenues for these programs depend on periodic funding from the federal government or applicable state governments and allocation of the funding through various payment mechanisms. Funding for these government programs depends on many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions and budgetary constraints at the federal or applicable state level. For example CMS has in the past reduced or frozen Medicare Advantage benchmarks, and additional cuts to Medicare Advantage benchmarks are possible. In addition, from time to time, CMS makes changes to the way it calculates Medicare Advantage risk adjustment payments. Although we have adjusted members  benefits and premiums on a selective basis, ceased to offer benefit plans in certain counties, and intensified both our medical and operating cost management in response to the benchmark reductions and other funding pressures, these or other strategies may not fully address the funding pressures in the Medicare Advantage program. In addition, payers in the Medicare Advantage program may be subject to reductions in payments from CMS as a result of decreased funding or recoupment pursuant to government audit. 
  Under the Medicaid managed care program, state Medicaid agencies seek bids from eligible health plans to continue their participation in the acute care Medicaid health programs. If we are not successful in obtaining renewals of state Medicaid managed care contracts, we risk losing the members that were enrolled in those Medicaid plans. Under the Medicare Part D program, to qualify for automatic enrollment of low income members, our bids must result in an enrollee premium below a  
  
   15 

     Table of Contents  

regional benchmark, which is calculated by the government after all regional bids are submitted. If the enrollee premium is not below the government benchmark, we risk losing the members who were auto-assigned to us and will not have additional members auto-assigned to us. In general, our bids are based upon certain assumptions regarding enrollment, utilization, medical costs and other factors. If any of these assumptions is materially incorrect, either as a result of unforeseen changes to the programs on which we bid, or submission by our competitors at lower rates than our bids, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 
  Many of the government health care coverage programs in which we participate are subject to the prior satisfaction of certain conditions or performance standards or benchmarks. For example, as part of the ACA, CMS has a system that provides various quality bonus payments to Medicare Advantage plans that meet certain quality star ratings at the local plan level. The star rating system considers various measures adopted by CMS, including, among others, quality of care, preventive services, chronic illness management and customer satisfaction. Plans must have a rating of four stars or higher to qualify for bonus payments. If we do not maintain or continue to improve our star ratings, our plans may not be eligible for quality bonuses and we may experience a negative impact on our revenues and the benefits that our plans can offer, which could materially and adversely affect the marketability of our plans, our membership levels, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Any changes in standards or care delivery models that apply to government health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, or our inability to improve our quality scores and star ratings to meet government performance requirements or to match the performance of our competitors could result in limitations to our participation in or exclusion from these or other government programs, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 
  CMS uses various payment mechanisms to allocate funding for Medicare programs, including adjustment of monthly capitation payments to Medicare Advantage plans and Medicare Part D plans according to the predicted health status of each beneficiary as supported by data from health care providers for Medicare Advantage plans, as well as, for Medicare Part D plans, risk-sharing provisions based on a comparison of costs predicted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs. Some state Medicaid programs utilize a similar process. For example, our UnitedHealthcare Medicare   Retirement and UnitedHealthcare Community   State businesses submit information relating to the health status of enrollees to CMS or state agencies for purposes of determining the amount of certain payments to us. CMS and the Office of Inspector General for HHS periodically perform risk adjustment data validation (RADV) audits of selected Medicare health plans to validate the coding practices of and supporting documentation maintained by health care providers. Certain of our local plans have been selected for such audits, which have in the past resulted and could in the future result in retrospective adjustments to payments made to our health plans, fines, corrective action plans or other adverse action by CMS. 
  We have been and may in the future become involved in routine, regular and special governmental investigations, audits, reviews and assessments. For example, various governmental agencies have conducted investigations into certain PBM practices, which have resulted in other PBMs agreeing to civil penalties, including the payment of money and corporate integrity agreements. Additionally, such investigations, audits or reviews sometimes arise out of or prompt claims by private litigants or whistleblowers that, among other allegations, we failed to disclose certain business practices or, as a government contractor, submitted false or erroneous claims to the government. Governmental investigations, audits, reviews and assessments could lead to government actions, which could result in adverse publicity, the assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including restrictions or changes in the way we conduct business, loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.  
  If we sustain cyber-attacks or other privacy or data security incidents that result in security breaches that disrupt our operations or result in the unintended dissemination of protected personal information or proprietary or confidential information, we could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability, reputational harm and other serious negative consequences.  
  We routinely process, store and transmit large amounts of data in our operations, including protected personal information as well as proprietary or confidential information relating to our business or third-parties. Some of the data we process, store and transmit may be outside of the United States due to our information technology systems and international business operations. We are regularly the target of attempted cyber-attacks and other security threats and may be subject to breaches of the information technology systems we use. We have programs in place to detect, contain and respond to data security incidents and provide employee awareness training around phishing, malware and other cyber risks to protect, to the greatest extent possible, against cyber risks and security breaches. However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our layered security controls and misappropriate or compromise protected personal information or proprietary or confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions or cause system shutdowns. They also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack our systems or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities. Hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third  
  
   16 

     Table of Contents  

parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. Our facilities may also be vulnerable to security incidents or security attacks; acts of vandalism or theft; coordinated attacks by activist entities; misplaced or lost data; human errors; or other similar events that could negatively affect our systems and our customer s data. 
  The costs to eliminate or address the foregoing security threats and vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be material. Our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers. In addition, breaches of our security measures and the unauthorized dissemination of  sensitive personal information, proprietary information or confidential information about us or our customers or other third-parties, could expose our customers  private information and our customers to the risk of financial or medical identity theft, or expose us or other third-parties to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business.  
  If we fail to comply with applicable privacy, security and data laws, regulations and standards, including with respect to third-party service providers that utilize protected personal information on our behalf, our business, reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.  
  The collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of protected personal information are regulated at the federal, state, international and industry levels and requirements are imposed on us by contracts with customers. These laws, rules and requirements are subject to change. Compliance with new privacy and security laws, regulations and requirements may result in increased operating costs, and may constrain or require us to alter our business model or operations. For example, the HITECH amendments to HIPAA imposed further restrictions on our ability to collect, disclose and use protected personal information and imposed additional compliance requirements on our business.  
  Internationally, many of the jurisdictions in which we operate have established their own data security and privacy legal framework with which we or our customers must comply. We expect that there will continue to be new proposed laws, regulations and industry standards concerning privacy, data protection and information security in the European Union and other jurisdictions, and we cannot yet determine the impacts such future laws, regulations and standards may have on our businesses or the businesses of our customers. For example, in May 2018, the European Union s General Data Protection Regulation will overhaul data protection laws in the European Union. The new regulation will supersede current European Union data protection legislation, may impose more stringent European Union data protection requirements on us or our customers, and may prescribe greater penalties for noncompliance. 
  Many of our businesses are also subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, which is a multifaceted security standard that is designed to protect credit card account data as mandated by payment card industry entities.  
  HIPAA requires business associates as well as covered entities to comply with certain privacy and security requirements. While we provide for appropriate protections through our contracts with our third-party service providers and in certain cases assess their security controls, we have limited oversight or control over their actions and practices. Several of our businesses act as business associates to their covered entity customers and, as a result, collect, use, disclose and maintain protected personal information in order to provide services to these customers. HHS has announced that it will continue its audit program to assess HIPAA compliance efforts by covered entities and expand it to include business associates. An audit resulting in findings or allegations of noncompliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 
  Through our Optum businesses, including our Optum Labs business, we maintain a database of administrative and clinical data that is statistically de-identified in accordance with HIPAA standards. Noncompliance or findings of noncompliance with applicable laws, regulations or requirements, or the occurrence of any privacy or security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of protected personal information, whether by us or by one of our third-party service providers, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business, including mandatory disclosure to the media, loss of existing or new customers, significant increases in the cost of managing and remediating privacy or security incidents and material fines, penalties and litigation awards, among other consequences, any of which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.  
  Our businesses providing pharmacy care services face regulatory and operational risks and uncertainties that may differ from the risks of our other businesses. 
  We provide pharmacy care services through our OptumRx and UnitedHealthcare businesses. Each business is subject to federal and state anti-kickback beneficiary inducement and other laws that govern the relationships of the business with pharmaceutical manufacturers, physicians, pharmacies, customers and consumers. As a provider of pharmacy benefit management services, OptumRx is also subject to an increasing number of licensure, registration and other laws and accreditation standards that impact the business practices of a pharmacy benefit manager. OptumRx also conducts business through home delivery, specialty pharmacies and home infusion, which subjects it to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, including  
  
   17 

     Table of Contents  

those of the DEA and individual state controlled substance authorities, the FDA and Boards of Pharmacy. In addition, federal and state legislatures regularly consider new regulations for the industry that could materially and adversely affect current industry practices, including potential new legislation and regulations regarding the receipt or disclosure of rebates and other fees from pharmaceutical companies, the development and use of formularies and other utilization management tools, the use of average wholesale prices or other pricing benchmarks, pricing for specialty pharmaceuticals, limited access to networks and pharmacy network reimbursement methodologies. 
  We could face potential claims in connection with purported errors by our home delivery or specialty pharmacies or the provision of home infusion services, including in connection with the risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products. Disruptions from any of our home delivery, specialty pharmacy or home infusion services could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 
  In addition, our pharmacy care services businesses provide services to sponsors of health benefit plans that are subject to ERISA. A private party or the DOL, which is the agency that enforces ERISA, could assert that the fiduciary obligations imposed by the statute apply to some or all of the services provided by our pharmacy care services businesses even where our pharmacy care services businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations. If a court were to determine that fiduciary obligations apply to our pharmacy care services businesses in connection with services for which our pharmacy care services businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations, we could be subject to claims for breaches of fiduciary obligations or claims that we entered into certain prohibited transactions. 
  If we fail to compete effectively to maintain or increase our market share, including maintaining or increasing enrollments in businesses providing health benefits, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows     could be materially and adversely affected.  
  Our businesses compete throughout the United States, South America and other foreign markets and face significant competition in all of the geographic markets in which we operate. In particular markets, our competitors, compared to us, may have greater capabilities, resources or market share; a more established reputation; superior supplier or health care professional arrangements; better existing business relationships; lower profit margin or financial return expectations; or other factors that give such competitors a competitive advantage. Our competitive position may also be adversely affected by significant merger and acquisition activity that has occurred in the industries in which we operate, both among our competitors and suppliers (including hospitals, physician groups and other health care professionals). Consolidation may make it more difficult for us to retain or increase our customer base, improve the terms on which we do business with our suppliers, or maintain or increase profitability. In addition, new direct-to-consumer business models from competing businesses may make it more difficult for us to directly engage consumers in the selection and management of their health care benefits and health care usage, and we may face challenges from new technologies and market entrants that could disrupt our existing relationship with health plan enrollees in these areas. Our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets, if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if we are unable to innovate and deliver products and services that demonstrate value to our customers, if we do not provide a satisfactory level of services, if membership or demand for other services does not increase as we expect or declines, or if we lose accounts with more profitable products while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with less profitable products. 
  If we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with physicians, hospitals and other service providers, our business could be materially and adversely affected.  
  Our results of operations and prospects are substantially dependent on our continued ability to contract with physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers and other service providers at competitive prices. Any failure by us to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with health care providers, whether in-network or out-of-network, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, certain activities related to network design, provider participation in networks and provider payments could result in disputes that may be costly, divert management s attention from our operations and result in negative publicity. 
  In any particular market, physicians and health care providers could refuse to contract, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher medical costs, less desirable products for customers or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. In some markets, certain health care providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions or near monopolies that could result in diminished bargaining power on our part. In addition, accountable care organizations; practice management companies (which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency) and other organizational structures that physicians, hospitals and other care providers choose may change the way in which these providers do business with us and may change the competitive landscape. Such organizations or groups of physicians may compete directly with us, which could adversely affect our operations, and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows by impacting our relationships with these providers or affecting the way that we price our products and estimate our costs, which might require us to incur costs to change our  
  
   18 

     Table of Contents  

operations. In addition, if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas could be materially and adversely affected.  
  We have capitation arrangements with some physicians, hospitals and other health care providers. Capitation arrangements limit our exposure to the risk of increasing medical costs, but expose us to risk related to the adequacy of the financial and medical care resources of the health care provider. To the extent that a capitated health care provider organization faces financial difficulties or otherwise is unable to perform its obligations under the capitation arrangement, we may be held responsible for unpaid health care claims that should have been the responsibility of the capitated health care provider and for which we have already paid the provider, under the capitation arrangement. Further, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts could result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. Health care providers with which we contract may not properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our operations.  
  Some providers that render services to our members do not have contracts with us. In those cases, we do not have a pre-established understanding about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider for services rendered to our members. In some states, the amount of compensation due to these out-of-network providers is defined by law or regulation, but in most instances the amount is either not defined or is established by a standard that does not clearly specify dollar terms. In some instances, providers may believe that they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with us or try to recover from our members the difference between what we have paid them and the amount they charged us.  
  The success of some of our businesses, including OptumHealth and UnitedHealthcare Brazil, depend on maintaining satisfactory physician relationships as employees, independent contractors or joint venture partners. The physicians that practice medicine or contract with our affiliated physician organizations could terminate their provider contracts or otherwise become unable or unwilling to continue practicing medicine or contracting with us. There is and will likely be heightened competition in the markets where we operate to acquire or manage physician practices or to employ or contract with individual physicians. If we are unable to maintain or grow satisfactory relationships with physicians, or to acquire, recruit or, in some instances, employ physicians, or to retain enrollees following the departure of a physician, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our affiliated physician organizations contract with health insurance and HMO competitors of UnitedHealthcare. Our businesses could suffer if our affiliated physician organizations fail to maintain relationships with these health insurance or HMO companies, or fail to adequately price their contracts with these third-party payers. 
  In addition, physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers and certain health care providers are customers of our Optum businesses. Physicians also provide medical services at facilities owned by our Optum businesses. Given the importance of health care providers and other constituents to our businesses, failure to maintain satisfactory relationships with them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.    
  We are routinely subject to various litigation actions due to the nature of our business, which could damage our reputation and, if resolved unfavorably, could result in substantial penalties or monetary damages and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 
  We are routinely made party to a variety of legal actions related to, among other matters, the design, management and delivery of our product and service offerings. These matters have included or could in the future include matters related to health care benefits coverage and payment claims (including disputes with enrollees, customers and contracted and non-contracted physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals), tort claims (including claims related to the delivery of health care services, such as medical malpractice by staff at our affiliates  facilities, or by health care practitioners who are employed by us, have contractual relationships with us, or serve as providers to our managed care networks), whistleblower claims (including claims under the False Claims Act or similar statutes), contract and labor disputes, tax claims and claims related to disclosure of certain business practices. We are also party to certain class action lawsuits brought by health care professional groups and consumers. In addition, we operate in jurisdictions outside of the United States, where contractual rights, tax positions and applicable regulations may be subject to interpretation or uncertainty to a greater degree than in the United States, and therefore subject to dispute by customers, government authorities or others. We are largely self-insured with regard to litigation risks. While we maintain excess liability insurance with outside insurance carriers for claims in excess of our self-insurance, certain types of damages, such as punitive damages in some circumstances, are not covered by insurance. Although we record liabilities for our estimates of the probable costs resulting from self-insured matters, it is possible that the level of actual losses will significantly exceed the liabilities recorded. 
  We cannot predict the outcome of significant legal actions in which we are involved and are incurring expenses in resolving these matters. The legal actions we face or may face in the future could further increase our cost of doing business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, certain legal actions  
  
   19 

     Table of Contents  

could result in adverse publicity, which could damage our reputation and materially and adversely affect our ability to retain our current business or grow our market share in some markets and businesses. 
  Any failure by us to manage successfully our strategic alliances or complete, manage or integrate acquisitions and other significant strategic transactions or relationships domestically or outside the United States could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.  
  As part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, joint ventures and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions. For example, we have a strategic alliance with AARP under which we provide AARP-branded Medicare Supplement insurance to AARP members and other AARP-branded products and services to Medicare beneficiaries. If we fail to meet the needs of our alliance or joint venture partners, including by developing additional products and services, providing high levels of service, pricing our products and services competitively or responding effectively to applicable federal and state regulatory changes, our alliances and joint ventures could be damaged or terminated, which in turn could adversely impact our reputation, business and results of operations. Further, if we fail to identify and successfully complete transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 
  Success in completing acquisitions is also dependent on efficiently integrating the acquired business into our existing operations, including our internal control environment, or otherwise leveraging its operations, which may present challenges that are different from those presented by organic growth and that may be difficult for us to manage. If we cannot successfully integrate these acquisitions and realize contemplated revenue growth opportunities and cost savings, our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.  
  As we expand and operate our business outside of the United States, we are presented with challenges that differ from those presented by acquisitions of domestic businesses, including challenges in adapting to new markets, languages, business, labor and cultural practices and regulatory environments. Adapting to these challenges could require us to devote significant senior management and other resources to the acquired businesses before we realize anticipated synergies or other benefits from the acquired businesses. These challenges vary widely by country and may include political instability, government intervention, discriminatory regulation and currency exchange controls or other restrictions that could prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which our acquired businesses operate or converting local currencies that we hold into U.S. dollars or other currencies. If we are unable to manage successfully our non-U.S. acquisitions, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial position could be materially and adversely affected.  
  Foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our shareholders  equity from period to period, which could adversely affect our debt to debt-plus-equity ratio, and our future revenues, costs and cash flows from international operations. Any measures we may implement to reduce the effect of volatile currencies may be costly or ineffective. 
  Our sales performance will suffer if we do not adequately attract, retain and provide support to a network of independent producers and consultants.  
  Our products and services are sold in part through nonexclusive producers and consultants for whose services and allegiance we must compete intensely. Our sales would be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to attract, retain and support such independent producers and consultants or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels. Our relationships with producers could be materially and adversely impacted by changes in our business practices and the nature of our relationships to address these pressures, including potential reductions in commission levels.  
  A number of investigations have been conducted regarding the marketing practices of producers selling health care products and the payments they receive and have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and producers marketing and selling those companies  products. If we were subjected to similar investigations and enforcement actions, such actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans, which could materially and adversely impact our ability to market our products. 
  Unfavorable economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our results of operations.  
  Unfavorable economic conditions may impact demand for certain of our products and services. For example, high unemployment can cause lower enrollment or lower rates of renewal in our employer group plans. Unfavorable economic conditions also have caused and could continue to cause employers to stop offering certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or elect to offer this coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis as a means to reduce their operating costs. In addition, unfavorable economic conditions could adversely impact our ability to increase premiums or result in the cancellation by certain customers of our products and services. These conditions could lead to a decrease in our membership levels and premium and fee revenues and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.  
  
   20 

     Table of Contents  

During a prolonged unfavorable economic environment, state and federal budgets could be materially and adversely affected, resulting in reduced reimbursements or payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and CHIP. A reduction in state Medicaid reimbursement rates could be implemented retrospectively to apply to payments already negotiated or received from the government and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, state and federal budgetary pressures could cause the affected governments to impose new or a higher level of taxes or assessments for our commercial programs, such as premium taxes on insurance companies and HMOs and surcharges or fees on select fee-for-service and capitated medical claims. Any of these developments or actions could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.  
  A prolonged unfavorable economic environment also could adversely impact the financial position of hospitals and other care providers, which could materially and adversely affect our contracted rates with these parties and increase our medical costs or materially and adversely affect their ability to purchase our service offerings. Further, unfavorable economic conditions could adversely impact the customers of our Optum businesses, including health plans, HMOs, hospitals, care providers, employers and others, which could, in turn, materially and adversely affect Optum s financial results. 
  Our investment portfolio may suffer losses, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.  
  Market fluctuations could impair our profitability and capital position. Volatility in interest rates affects our interest income and the market value of our investments in debt securities of varying maturities, which constitute the vast majority of the fair value of our investments as of   December 31, 2017  . Relatively low interest rates on investments, such as those experienced during recent years, have adversely impacted our investment income, and the continuation of the current low interest rate environment could further adversely affect our investment income. In addition, a delay in payment of principal or interest by issuers, or defaults by issuers (primarily issuers of our investments in corporate and municipal bonds), could reduce our investment income and require us to write down the value of our investments, which could adversely affect our profitability and equity.  
  There can be no assurance that our investments will produce total positive returns or that we will not sell investments at prices that are less than their carrying values. Changes in the value of our investment assets, as a result of interest rate fluctuations, changes in issuer financial conditions, illiquidity or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on our equity. In addition, if it became necessary for us to liquidate our investment portfolio on an accelerated basis, such an action could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and the capital position of regulated subsidiaries.  
  If the value of our intangible assets is materially impaired, our results of operations, equity and credit ratings could be materially and adversely affected.  
  As of   December 31, 2017  , goodwill and other intangible assets had a carrying value of   $63 billion  , representing   45%   of our total consolidated assets. We periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may be impaired, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. The value of our goodwill may be materially and adversely impacted if businesses that we acquire perform in a manner that is inconsistent with our assumptions. In addition, from time to time we divest businesses, and any such divestiture could result in significant asset impairment and disposition charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets. Any future evaluations requiring an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. A material decrease in equity could, in turn, adversely impact our credit ratings and potentially impact our compliance with the covenants in our bank credit facilities.  
  If we fail to maintain properly the integrity or availability of our data or successfully consolidate, integrate, upgrade or expand our existing information systems, or if our technology products do not operate as intended, our business could be materially and adversely affected.  
  Our ability to price adequately our products and services, to provide effective service to our customers in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, and to report accurately our results of operations depends on the integrity of the data in our information systems. We periodically consolidate, integrate, upgrade and expand our information systems capabilities as a result of technology initiatives and recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions. In addition, recent trends toward greater consumer engagement in health care require new and enhanced technologies, including more sophisticated applications for mobile devices. Our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards and changing customer preferences. If the information we rely upon to run our businesses is found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, experience problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have difficulty preventing, detecting and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals, become subject to regulatory sanctions or penalties, incur increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse  
  
   21 

     Table of Contents  

consequences. Our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology may not be successful. Failure to protect, consolidate and integrate our systems successfully could result in higher than expected costs and diversion of management s time and energy, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.  
  Certain of our businesses sell and install software products that may contain unexpected design defects or may encounter unexpected complications during installation or when used with other technologies utilized by the customer. Connectivity among competing technologies is becoming increasingly important in the health care industry. A failure of our technology products to operate as intended and in a seamless fashion with other products could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.  
  Uncertain and rapidly evolving U.S. federal and state, non-U.S. and international laws and regulations related to the health information technology market may present compliance challenges and could materially and adversely affect the configuration of our information systems and platforms, and our ability to compete in this market. 
  If we are not able to protect our proprietary rights to our databases, software and related products, our ability to market our knowledge and information-related businesses could be hindered and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.  
  We rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, and our trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and patents to protect our proprietary rights. These legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. In addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, and we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this industry segment grows. Such litigation and misappropriation of our proprietary information could hinder our ability to market and sell products and services and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.  
  Restrictions on our ability to obtain funds from our regulated subsidiaries could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.  
  Because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent on dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. Many of these subsidiaries are regulated by departments of insurance or similar regulatory authorities. We are also required by law or regulation to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. The levels of capitalization required depend primarily on the volume of premium revenues generated by the applicable subsidiary. In most states, we are required to seek approval by state regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries that exceed specified amounts. An inability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to their parent companies in the desired amounts or at the time of our choosing could adversely affect our ability to reinvest in our business through capital expenditures or business acquisitions, as well as our ability to maintain our corporate quarterly dividend payment, repurchase shares of our common stock and repay our debt. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.  
  Any downgrades in our credit ratings could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  
  Claims paying ability, financial strength and debt ratings by Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used by customers and creditors. We believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are important factors in marketing our products to certain of our customers. Our credit ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. Each of the credit rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically. Our ratings reflect each credit rating agency s opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders. There can be no assurance that our current credit ratings will be maintained in the future. Any downgrades in our credit ratings could materially increase our costs of or ability to access funds in the debt capital markets and otherwise materially increase our operating costs. 
   
  ITEM 1B.    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  
  None.  
   
           ITEM 2. 
    PROPERTIES  
     To support our business operations in the United States and other countries we own and lease real properties. Our various reportable segments use these facilities for their respective business purposes, and we believe these current facilities are suitable for their respective uses and are adequate for our anticipated future needs. 
  
   22 

Table of Contents  

ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
  The information required by this Item 3 is incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth under the captions  Legal Matters  and  Governmental Investigations, Audits and Reviews  in    Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8,  Financial Statements.   
   
           ITEM 4. 
    MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 
     Not Applicable. 
   
  PART II 
   
           ITEM 5. 
    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  
     MARKET PRICES AND HOLDERS 
  Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol UNH. On January 31, 2018, there were 12,418 registered holders of record of our common stock. The high and low per share common stock sales prices reported by the NYSE and cash dividends declared for our last two fiscal years were as follows:  

DIVIDEND POLICY  
  In June 2017, our Board of Directors increased the Company s quarterly cash dividend to shareholders to an annual dividend rate of   $3.00   per share compared to the annual dividend rate of   $2.50   per share, which the Company had paid since June 2016. Declaration and payment of future quarterly dividends is at the discretion of the Board and may be adjusted as business needs or market conditions change. 
   
  ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
  In November 1997, our Board of Directors adopted a share repurchase program, which the Board evaluates periodically. There is no established expiration date for the program. During the fourth quarter 2017, we repurchased 1.6 million shares at an average price of $210.97 per share. As of December 31, 2017, we had Board authorization to purchase up to   42 million   shares of our common stock. 
  
   23 

Table of Contents  

PERFORMANCE GRAPH 
  The following performance graph compares the cumulative five-year total return to shareholders on our common stock relative to the cumulative total returns of the S P 500 index and a customized peer group of certain   Fortune 50   companies (the    Fortune 50   Group ) for the five-year period ended   December 31, 2017  . We are not included in the   Fortune 50   Group index. In calculating the cumulative total shareholder return of the indexes, the shareholder returns of the   Fortune 50   Group companies are weighted according to the stock market capitalizations of the companies at January 1 of each year. The comparisons assume the investment of $100 on December 31, 2012 in our common stock and in each index, and that dividends were reinvested when paid.  
  The   Fortune 50   Group consists of the following companies: American International Group, Inc., Berkshire Hathaway Inc., Cardinal Health, Inc., Citigroup Inc., General Electric Company, International Business Machines Corporation and Johnson   Johnson. Although there are differences among the companies in terms of size and industry, like UnitedHealth Group, all of these companies are large multi-segment companies using a well-defined operating model in one or more broad sectors of the economy. 

The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance.  
  
   24 

     Table of Contents  

ITEM 6.  
    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  

(a) 
    Includes the impact of the revaluation of  our net deferred tax liabilities due to Tax Reform enacted in December 2017. 
              (b) 
    Includes the effects of the July 2015 acquisition of Catamaran Corporation (Catamaran) and related debt issuances.  
              (c) 
    Return on equity is calculated as net earnings divided by average equity. Average equity is calculated using the equity balance at the end of the preceding year and the equity balances at the end of each of the four quarters of the year presented.  
       
  Financial Highlights should be read with the accompanying     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in Part II, Item 7    and the    Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8,  Financial Statements.   

ITEM 7.  
    MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
     The following discussion should be read together with the accompanying    Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements thereto included in Item 8,  Financial Statements.     Readers are cautioned that the statements, estimates, projections or outlook contained in this report, including discussions regarding financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and uncertainties contained in this Item 7, may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the PSLRA. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. A description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found further below in this Item 7 and in    Part I, Item 1A,  Risk Factors.   
  EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW  
  General 
  UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health care company dedicated to helping people live healthier lives and helping make the  
  
   25 

     Table of Contents  

health system work better for everyone. Through our diversified family of businesses, we leverage core competencies in advanced, enabling technology; health care data; information and intelligence; and clinical care delivery, management and coordination to help meet the demands of the health system. These core competencies are deployed within our two distinct, but strategically aligned, business platforms: health benefits operating under UnitedHealthcare and health services operating under Optum.  
  We have four reportable segments across our two business platforms, UnitedHealthcare and Optum: 
             
    UnitedHealthcare, which includes UnitedHealthcare Employer   Individual, UnitedHealthcare Medicare   Retirement, UnitedHealthcare Community   State and UnitedHealthcare Global; 
                
    OptumHealth; 
                
    OptumInsight; and 
                
    OptumRx. 
     Further information on our business and reportable segments is presented in    Part I, Item 1,  Business     and in    Note 13 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8,  Financial Statements.   
   
  Business Trends 
  Our businesses participate in the United States, South America and certain other international health markets. In the United States, health care spending has grown consistently for many years and comprises approximately 18% of gross domestic product. We expect overall spending on health care to continue to grow in the future, due to inflation, medical technology and pharmaceutical advancement, regulatory requirements, demographic trends in the population and national interest in health and well-being. The rate of market growth may be affected by a variety of factors, including macro-economic conditions and regulatory changes, which have impacted and could further impact our results of operations. 
  Pricing Trends  . To price our health care benefit products, we start with our view of expected future costs. We frequently evaluate and adjust our approach in each of the local markets we serve, considering all relevant factors, such as product positioning, price competitiveness and environmental, competitive, legislative and regulatory considerations, including minimum MLR thresholds. We will continue seeking to balance growth and profitability across all of these dimensions.  
  The commercial risk market remains highly competitive in both the small group and large group segments. We expect broad-based competition to continue as the industry adapts to individual and employer needs amid reform changes. The ACA included an annual, nondeductible insurance industry tax (Health Insurance Industry Tax) to be levied proportionally across the insurance industry for risk-based health insurance products. A provision in the 2016 Federal Budget imposed a one year moratorium for 2017 on the collection of the Health Insurance Industry Tax. Pricing for contracts that cover a portion of calendar year 2018 reflected the impact of the returning Health Insurance Industry Tax. Conversely, the industry has continued to experience favorable medical cost trends due to moderated utilization, which has impacted the competitive pricing environment.  
  Medicare Advantage funding continues to be pressured, as discussed below in     Regulatory Trends and Uncertainties.      
  We expect continued Medicaid revenue growth due to anticipated increases in the number of people we serve; we also believe that the payment rate environment creates the risk of downward pressure on Medicaid margin percentages. We continue to take a prudent, market-sustainable posture for both new business and maintenance of existing relationships. We advocate for actuarially sound rates that are commensurate with our medical cost trends and we remain dedicated to partnering with those states that are committed to the long-term viability of their programs. 
  Medical Cost Trends.   Our medical cost trends primarily relate to changes in unit costs, health system utilization and prescription drug costs. We endeavor to mitigate those increases by engaging physicians and consumers with information and helping them make clinically sound choices, with the objective of helping them achieve high quality, affordable care. 
  Delivery System and Payment Modernization.   The health care market continues to change based on demographic shifts, new regulations, political forces and both payer and patient expectations. Health plans and care providers are being called upon to work together to close gaps in care and improve overall care quality, improve the health of populations and reduce costs. We continue to see a greater number of people enrolled in plans with underlying incentive-based care provider payment models that reward high-quality, affordable care and foster collaboration. We work together with clinicians to leverage our data and analytics to provide the necessary information to close gaps in care and improve overall health outcomes for patients. 
  We are increasingly rewarding care providers for delivering improvements in quality and cost-efficiency. As of December 31, 2017, we served nearly 16 million people through some form of aligned contractual arrangement, including full-risk, shared- 
  
   26 

     Table of Contents  

risk and bundled episode-of-care and performance incentive payment approaches. As of December 31, 2017, our contracts with value-based elements total nearly $65 billion in annual spending. 
  This trend is creating needs for health management services that can coordinate care around the primary care physician, including new primary care channels, and for investments in new clinical and administrative information and management systems, which we believe provide growth opportunities for our Optum business platform.  
   
  Regulatory Trends and Uncertainties 
  Following is a summary of management s view of the trends and uncertainties related to some of the key provisions of the ACA and other regulatory matters. For additional information regarding the ACA and regulatory trends and uncertainties, see    Part I, Item 1  Business - Government Regulation     and    Item 1A,  Risk Factors.   
  Medicare Advantage Rates.   Final 2018 Medicare Advantage rates resulted in an increase in industry base rates of approximately 0.45%, well short of the industry forward medical cost trend of 3%, as well as the return of the Health Insurance Industry Tax in 2018, described below, which creates continued pressure in the Medicare Advantage program. The impact of this funding shortfall in Medicare Advantage is partially mitigated by reductions in provider payments for those care providers with rates indexed to Medicare Advantage revenues or Medicare fee-for-service payment rates. These factors can affect our plan benefit designs, pricing, growth prospects and earnings expectations for our Medicare Advantage plans. 
  The ongoing pressure on Medicare Advantage funding places continued importance on effective medical management and ongoing improvements in administrative efficiency. There are a number of adjustments we have made to partially offset these rate pressures and reductions. In some years, these adjustments will impact the majority of the seniors we serve through Medicare Advantage. For example, we seek to intensify our medical and operating cost management, make changes to the size and composition of our care provider networks, and adjust members' benefits, implement or increase the member premiums that supplement the monthly payments we receive from the government. Additionally, we decide annually on a county-by-county basis where we will offer Medicare Advantage plans. 
  As Medicare Advantage payments change, other products may become relatively more attractive to Medicare beneficiaries and increase the demand for other senior health benefits products such as our market-leading Medicare Supplement and stand-alone Medicare Part D insurance offerings.  
  Our Medicare Advantage rates are currently enhanced by CMS quality bonuses in certain counties based on our local plans  Star ratings. The level of Star ratings from CMS, based upon specified clinical and operational performance standards, will impact future quality bonuses. In addition, Star ratings affect the amount of savings a plan can use to offer supplemental benefits, which ultimately may affect the plan s membership and revenue. For the 2017 payment year, approximately 80% of our Medicare Advantage members were in plans rated four stars or higher. We expect that at least 85% of our Medicare Advantage members will be in plans rated four stars or higher for payment year 2018. We continue to dedicate substantial resources to advance our quality scores and Star ratings to strengthen our local market programs and further improve our performance. 
  Tax Reform.   Tax Reform was enacted by the U.S federal government in December 2017, changing existing United States tax law including reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate. The Company re-measured deferred taxes as of the date of enactment, which resulted in a $1.2 billion reduction to the net deferred tax liability and corresponding increase to earnings in 2017. With Tax Reform, we expect that our effective tax rate in 2018 will be approximately 24%.  
  Health Insurance Industry Tax.   A provision in the 2016 Federal Budget imposed a one year moratorium for 2017 on the collection of the Health Insurance Industry Tax. In 2018, the industry-wide amount of the Health Insurance Industry Tax will be $14.3 billion and we expect our portion to be approximately $2.8 billion. A one year moratorium on the collection of the Health Insurance Industry Tax will occur in 2019. 
  
   27 

Table of Contents  

RESULTS SUMMARY 
  The following table summarizes our consolidated results of operations and other financial information:   

(a) 
    Medical care ratio is calculated as medical costs divided by premium revenue. 
              (b) 
    Net earnings margin attributable to UnitedHealth Group shareholders. 
              (c) 
    Return on equity is calculated as annualized net earnings divided by average equity. Average equity is calculated using the equity balance at the end of the preceding year and the equity balances at the end of each of the four quarters in the year presented.  
     SELECTED OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT ITEMS 
  The following represents a summary of select   2017   year-over-year operating comparisons to   2016   and other   2017   significant items. 
             
    Consolidated revenues increased by   9%  , UnitedHealthcare revenues increased   10%   and Optum revenues grew   9%  .  
                
    UnitedHealthcare grew to serve an additional   1.1 million   people domestically. 
                
    Earnings from operations increased by   18%  , including increases of   16%   at UnitedHealthcare and   19%   at Optum. 
                
    Diluted earnings per common share increased   48%   to   $10.72  , including $1.22 per share due to the impact of Tax Reform.  
                
    Cash flows from operations were   $13.6 billion  , an increase of   39%  . 
     
   28 

     Table of Contents  

2017 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COMPARED TO 2016 RESULTS  . 
  Consolidated Financial Results 
  Revenue 
  The increase in revenue was primarily driven by organic growth in the number of individuals served across our UnitedHealthcare benefits businesses and growth across the Optum business. The increase was partially offset by revenue decreases due to the withdrawals of the ACA-compliant products in the individual market and the effects of the Health Insurance Industry Tax moratorium.  
  Medical Costs and MCR 
  Medical costs increased due to risk-based membership growth and medical cost trends. The MCR increased due to the effects of the Health Insurance Industry Tax moratorium, offset primarily by the reduction in individual ACA business, medical management initiatives and an increase in favorable medical cost reserve development.  
  Income Tax Rate 
  Our effective tax rate decreased primarily due to the impact of Tax Reform and the Health Insurance Tax moratorium. The provision for income taxes included the $1.2 billion benefit from the revaluation of net deferred tax liabilities. 
  Reportable Segments 
  See    Note 13 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8,  Financial Statements     for more information on our segments. The following table presents a summary of the reportable segment financial information: 

29 

     Table of Contents  

UnitedHealthcare 
  The following table summarizes UnitedHealthcare revenues by business: 

The following table summarizes the number of individuals served by our UnitedHealthcare businesses, by major market segment and funding arrangement:   

  In the commercial group market, broad-based growth was across group sizes and regions, led by gains in services to small groups and resulted in the overall increase in people served through risk-based benefit plans. Fee-based commercial group business declined due to the non-renewal of one public sector customer. Membership in individual business decreased due to our reduced participation in ACA-compliant products in 2017. Medicare Advantage increased year-over-year due to growth in people served through individual and employer-sponsored group Medicare Advantage plans. Medicaid growth was driven by the combination of new state-based awards and growth in established programs. Medicare Supplement growth reflected strong customer retention and new sales. 
  UnitedHealthcare s revenue increase was due to growth in the number of individuals served across its businesses and price increases for underlying medical cost trends, which were partially offset by the reduction of people served in ACA-compliant individual products and the impact of the Health Insurance Industry Tax moratorium. 
  The increase in UnitedHealthcare s earnings from operations was led by diversified growth and increased operating margin. The 2016 results included losses in ACA-complaint individual products and guaranty fund assessments. 
  Optum 
  Total revenues and earnings from operations increased as each segment reported increased revenues and earnings from operations as a result of the factors discussed below.  
  The results by segment were as follows: 
  OptumHealth 
  Revenue and earnings from operations increased at OptumHealth primarily due to organic and acquisition-related growth in care delivery. 
  
   30 

     Table of Contents  

OptumInsight 
  Revenue and earnings from operations at OptumInsight increased primarily due to growth in revenue management services and business process services.  
  OptumRx 
  Revenue and earnings from operations at OptumRx increased primarily due to client and consumer growth. In 2017, OptumRx fulfilled 1.3 billion adjusted scripts compared to 1.2 billion in 2016. 
  2016 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COMPARED TO 2015 RESULTS 
  Our results of operations were affected by our acquisition of Catamaran in the third quarter of 2015. 
  Consolidated Financial Results 
  Revenues 
  The increases in revenues were primarily driven by organic growth in the number of individuals served across our UnitedHealthcare benefits businesses and growth across all of our Optum services businesses. 
  Medical Costs 
  Medical costs increased due to risk-based membership growth and medical cost trends, partially offset by medical management initiatives.  
  Income Tax Rate 
  Our effective tax rate decreased primarily due to the adoption of  Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting,  which we adopted in the first quarter of 2016.  
  Reportable Segments 
  UnitedHealthcare 
  UnitedHealthcare s revenue growth was due to growth in the number of individuals served across its businesses and price increases for underlying medical cost trends.  
  UnitedHealthcare s operating earnings increased due to diversified growth, offset by guaranty fund assessments recorded in the fourth quarter of 2016. 
  Optum 
  Total revenues and operating earnings increased as each reporting segment increased revenues and earnings from operations by double-digit percentages as a result of the factors discussed below. 
  The results by segment were as follows: 
  OptumHealth 
  Revenue and earnings from operations increased at OptumHealth primarily due to growth in its health care delivery businesses as well as expansion of behavioral services into new Medicaid markets. Strong performance in business supporting UnitedHealthcare partially offset by investments in the health care delivery business drove the increase in earnings from operations. 
  OptumInsight 
  Revenue and earnings from operations at OptumInsight increased primarily due to growth in revenue management, business process outsourcing and technology services.  
  OptumRx 
  Revenue and earnings from operations at OptumRx increased primarily due to the full-year impact of Catamaran and organic growth. In 2016, OptumRx fulfilled 1.2 billion adjusted scripts compared to 932 million in 2015. 
  
   31 

Table of Contents  

LIQUIDITY, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 
  Liquidity 
  Introduction 
  We manage our liquidity and financial position in the context of our overall business strategy. We continually forecast and manage our cash, investments, working capital balances and capital structure to meet the short-term and long-term obligations of our businesses while seeking to maintain liquidity and financial flexibility. Cash flows generated from operating activities are principally from earnings before noncash expenses.  
  Our regulated subsidiaries generate significant cash flows from operations and are subject to financial regulations and standards in their respective jurisdictions. These standards, among other things, require these subsidiaries to maintain specified levels of statutory capital, as defined by each jurisdiction, and restrict the timing and amount of dividends and other distributions that may be paid to their parent companies. 
  In 2017, our U.S. regulated subsidiaries paid their parent companies dividends of $3.7 billion. For the year ended December 31, 2016, our U.S. regulated subsidiaries paid their parent companies dividends of $3.9 billion. See    Note 10 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8,  Financial Statements     for further detail concerning our regulated subsidiary dividends. 
  Our nonregulated businesses also generate significant cash flows from operations that are available for general corporate use. Cash flows generated by these entities, combined with dividends from our regulated entities and financing through the issuance of long-term debt as well as issuance of commercial paper or the ability to draw under our committed credit facilities, further strengthen our operating and financial flexibility. We use these cash flows to expand our businesses through acquisitions, reinvest in our businesses through capital expenditures, repay debt and return capital to our shareholders through shareholder dividends and/or repurchases of our common stock, depending on market conditions. 
  Summary of our Major Sources and Uses of Cash and Cash Equivalents 

32 

     Table of Contents  

2017 Cash Flows Compared to 2016 Cash Flows 
  Increased cash flows provided by operating activities were primarily driven by higher net earnings and changes in working capital accounts, partially offset by the change in net deferred tax liabilities driven by tax reform. 
  Other significant changes in sources or uses of cash year-over-year included net repayments of debt compared to 2016 net proceeds from debt issuances, which were partially offset by lower net purchases of investments.  
  2016 Cash Flows Compared to 2015 Cash Flows 
  Cash flows provided by operating activities increased slightly as higher net earnings were mostly offset by increased CMS receivables and other operating items.  
  Other significant changes in sources or uses of cash year-over-year included increased net purchases of investments in 2016 and the decreases in cash paid for acquisitions and proceeds from debt issuances due to the 2015 acquisition of Catamaran. 
  Financial Condition 
  As of   December 31, 2017  , our cash, cash equivalent and available-for-sale investment balances of   $42.4 billion   included   $12.0 billion   of cash and cash equivalents (of which approximately   $800 million   was available for general corporate use),   $28.4 billion   of debt securities and   $2.0 billion   of investments in equity securities consisting of investments in non-U.S. dollar fixed-income funds; employee savings plan related investments; and dividend paying stocks. Given the significant portion of our portfolio held in cash equivalents, we do not anticipate fluctuations in the aggregate fair value of our financial assets to have a material impact on our liquidity or capital position. Other sources of liquidity, primarily from operating cash flows and our commercial paper program, which is supported by our bank credit facilities, reduce the need to sell investments during adverse market conditions. See    Note 4 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8,  Financial Statements     for further detail concerning our fair value measurements. 
  Our available-for-sale debt portfolio had a weighted-average duration of 3.2 years and a weighted-average credit rating of  Double A  as of   December 31, 2017  . When multiple credit ratings are available for an individual security, the average of the available ratings is used to determine the weighted-average credit rating. 
  Capital Resources and Uses of Liquidity 
  In addition to cash flows from operations and cash and cash equivalent balances available for general corporate use, our capital resources and uses of liquidity are as follows: 
  Commercial Paper and Bank Credit Facilities.   Our revolving bank credit facilities provide liquidity support for our commercial paper borrowing program, which facilitates the private placement of senior unsecured debt through third-party broker-dealers, and are available for general corporate purposes. For more information on our commercial paper and bank credit facilities, see    Note 8 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8,  Financial Statements.   
  Our revolving bank credit facilities contain various covenants, including covenants requiring us to maintain a defined debt to debt-plus-shareholders  equity ratio of not more than 55%. As of December 31, 2017, our debt to debt-plus-shareholders  equity ratio, as defined and calculated under the credit facilities, was approximately 37%. 
  Long-Term Debt.   Periodically, we access capital markets to issue long-term debt for general corporate purposes, such as, to meet our working capital requirements, to refinance debt, to finance acquisitions or for share repurchases. For more information on our debt, see    Note 8 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8  Financial Statements.   
  Credit Ratings.   Our credit ratings as of   December 31, 2017   were as follows:                                                   
    Moody s 
      
    S P Global 
      
    Fitch 
      
    A.M. Best 
        
    Ratings 
      
    Outlook 
      
    Ratings 
      
    Outlook 
      
    Ratings 
      
    Outlook 
      
    Ratings 
      
    Outlook 
      Senior unsecured debt 
    A3 
      
    Stable 
      
    A+ 
      
    Negative    (a)  
      
    A- 
      
    Stable 
      
    bbb+ 
      
    Stable 
      Commercial paper 
    P-2 
      
    n/a 
      
    A-1 
      
    n/a 
      
    F1 
      
    n/a 
      
    AMB-2 
      
    n/a 

(a) 
    In January 2018, S P Global affirmed our ratings and changed our outlook to Stable. 
     The availability of financing in the form of debt or equity is influenced by many factors, including our profitability, operating cash flows, debt levels, credit ratings, debt covenants and other contractual restrictions, regulatory requirements and economic  
  
   33 

     Table of Contents  

and market conditions. For example, a significant downgrade in our credit ratings or adverse conditions in the capital markets may increase the cost of borrowing for us or limit our access to capital. 
  Share Repurchase Program.   As of   December 31, 2017  , we had Board authorization to purchase up to   42 million   shares of our common stock. For more information on our share repurchase program, see    Note 10 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8,  Financial Statements.   
  Dividends.   In June 2017, our Board increased our quarterly cash dividend to shareholders by 20% to an annual dividend rate of   $3.00   per share. For more information on our dividend, see    Note 10 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8,  Financial Statements.   
  CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS 
  The following table summarizes future obligations due by period as of December 31, 2017, under our various contractual obligations and commitments:  

(a) 
    Includes interest coupon payments and maturities at par or put values. The table also assumes amounts are outstanding through their contractual term. See    Note 8 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8,  Financial Statements     for more detail.  
              (b) 
    Includes fixed or minimum commitments under existing purchase obligations for goods and services, including agreements that are cancelable with the payment of an early termination penalty and remaining capital commitments for venture capital funds and other funding commitments. Excludes agreements that are cancelable without penalty and excludes liabilities to the extent recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of   December 31, 2017  .  
              (c) 
    Includes obligations associated with contingent consideration and other payments related to business acquisitions, certain employee benefit programs, amounts accrued for guaranty fund assessments, unrecognized tax benefits, and various other long-term liabilities. Due to uncertainty regarding payment timing, obligations for employee benefit programs, charitable contributions, future settlements and other liabilities have been classified as  Thereafter.  
              (d) 
    Includes commitments for redeemable shares of our subsidiaries. When the timing of the redemption is indeterminable, the commitment has been classified as  Thereafter.  
     Pending Acquisitions.   In December 2017, we entered into agreements to acquire two companies in the health care sector for a total of approximately $7.7 billion, which are not reflected in the table above. One of the acquisitions closed in January 2018; the other is expected to close later in 2018, subject to regulatory approval and other customary closing conditions. 
  We do not have other significant contractual obligations or commitments that require cash resources. However, we continually evaluate opportunities to expand our operations, which include internal development of new products, programs and technology applications and may include acquisitions. 
  OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 
  As of December 31, 2017, we were not involved in any off-balance sheet arrangements, which have or are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. 
  RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS  
  See    Note 2 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8  Financial Statements     for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements that affect us. 
   
  CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES 
  Critical accounting estimates are those estimates that require management to make challenging, subjective or complex judgments, often because they must estimate the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent  
  
   34 

     Table of Contents  

periods. Critical accounting estimates involve judgments and uncertainties that are sufficiently sensitive and may result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions.  
  Medical Costs Payable 
  Medical costs and medical costs payable include estimates of our obligations for medical care services that have been rendered on behalf of insured consumers, but for which claims have either not yet been received or processed. Depending on the health care professional and type of service, the typical billing lag for services can be up to 90 days from the date of service. Approximately   90%   of claims related to medical care services are known and settled within 90 days from the date of service and substantially all within twelve months. As of   December 31, 2017  , our days outstanding in medical payables was 50 days, calculated as total medical payables divided by total medical costs times the number of days in the period.  
  In each reporting period, our operating results include the effects of more completely developed medical costs payable estimates associated with previously reported periods. If the revised estimate of prior period medical costs is less than the previous estimate, we will decrease reported medical costs in the current period (favorable development). If the revised estimate of prior period medical costs is more than the previous estimate, we will increase reported medical costs in the current period (unfavorable development). Medical costs in 2017, 2016 and 2015 included favorable medical cost development related to prior years of   $690 million  ,   $220 million   and   $320 million  , respectively. 
  In developing our medical costs payable estimates, we apply different estimation methods depending on the month for which incurred claims are being estimated. For example, for the most recent two months, we estimate claim costs incurred by applying observed medical cost trend factors to the average per member per month (PMPM) medical costs incurred in prior months for which more complete claim data is available, supplemented by a review of near-term completion factors. 
  Completion Factors.   A completion factor is an actuarial estimate, based upon historical experience and analysis of current trends, of the percentage of incurred claims during a given period that have been adjudicated by us at the date of estimation. Completion factors are the most significant factors we use in developing our medical costs payable estimates for periods prior to the most recent two months. Completion factors include judgments in relation to claim submissions such as the time from date of service to claim receipt, claim inventory levels and claim processing backlogs, as well as other factors. If actual claims submission rates from providers (which can be influenced by a number of factors, including provider mix and electronic versus manual submissions) or our claim processing patterns are different than estimated, our reserve estimates may be significantly impacted. 
  The following table illustrates the sensitivity of these factors and the estimated potential impact on our medical costs payable estimates for those periods as of   December 31, 2017  :       

  Medical Cost Per Member Per Month Trend Factors.   Medical cost PMPM trend factors are significant factors we use in developing our medical costs payable estimates for the most recent two months. Medical cost trend factors are developed through a comprehensive analysis of claims incurred in prior months, provider contracting and expected unit costs, benefit design and a review of a broad set of health care utilization indicators, including but not limited to, pharmacy utilization trends, inpatient hospital authorization data and influenza incidence data from the National Centers for Disease Control. We also consider macroeconomic variables such as gross-domestic product growth, employment and disposable income. A large number of factors can cause the medical cost trend to vary from our estimates, including: our ability and practices to manage medical and pharmaceutical costs, changes in level and mix of services utilized, mix of benefits offered, including the impact of co-pays and deductibles, changes in medical practices, catastrophes and epidemics.  
  
   35 

     Table of Contents  

The following table illustrates the sensitivity of these factors and the estimated potential impact on our medical costs payable estimates for the most recent two months as of   December 31, 2017  :  

The completion factors and medical costs PMPM trend factors analyses above include outcomes that are considered reasonably likely based on our historical experience estimating liabilities for incurred but not reported benefit claims.  
  Management believes the amount of medical costs payable is reasonable and adequate to cover our liability for unpaid claims as of   December 31, 2017  ; however, actual claim payments may differ from established estimates as discussed above. Assuming a hypothetical 1% difference between our   December 31, 2017   estimates of medical costs payable and actual medical costs payable, excluding AARP Medicare Supplement Insurance and any potential offsetting impact from premium rebates, 2017 net earnings would have increased or decreased by $110 million.  
  For more detail related to our medical cost estimates, see    Note 2 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8,  Financial Statements.    
  Revenues  
  We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from health care insurance premiums. We recognize premium revenues in the period eligible individuals are entitled to receive health care services. Customers are typically billed monthly at a contracted rate per eligible person multiplied by the total number of people eligible to receive services.  
  Our Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D premium revenues are subject to periodic adjustment under the CMS risk adjustment payment methodology. The CMS risk adjustment model provides higher per member payments for enrollees diagnosed with certain conditions and lower payments for enrollees who are healthier. We estimate risk adjustment revenues based upon the data submitted and expected to be submitted to CMS. As a result of the variability of factors that determine such estimations, the actual amount of CMS  retroactive payments could be materially more or less than our estimates. This may result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our Medicare premium revenue and, accordingly, our profitability. For more detail on premium revenues, see    Note 2 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8,  Financial Statements.     Risk adjustment data for our plans is subject to review by the federal and state governments, including audit by regulators. See    Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8,  Financial Statements     for additional information regarding these audits. Our estimates of premiums to be recognized are reduced by any expected premium minimum MLR rebates payable by us.  
  Goodwill and Intangible Assets  
  Goodwill.   We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. When testing goodwill for impairment, we may first assess qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not that the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. During a qualitative analysis, we consider the impact of changes, if any, to the following factors: macroeconomic, industry and market factors, cost factors, changes in overall financial performance, and any other relevant events and uncertainties impacting a reporting unit. If our qualitative assessment indicates that goodwill impairment is more likely than not, we perform additional quantitative analyses. We may also elect to skip the qualitative testing and proceed directly to the quantitative testing. For reporting units where a quantitative analysis is performed, we perform a multi-step test measuring the fair values of the reporting units and comparing them to their aggregate carrying values, including goodwill. If the fair value is less than the carrying value of the reporting unit, then the implied value of goodwill would be calculated and compared to the carrying amount of goodwill to determine whether goodwill is impaired. 
  We estimate the fair values of our reporting units using discounted cash flows, which include assumptions about a wide variety of internal and external factors. Significant assumptions used in the impairment analysis include financial projections of free cash flow (including significant assumptions about operations, capital requirements and income taxes), long-term growth rates  
  
   36 

     Table of Contents  

for determining terminal value beyond the discretely forecasted periods and discount rates. For each reporting unit, comparative market multiples are used to corroborate the results of our discounted cash flow test. 
  Forecasts and long-term growth rates used for our reporting units are consistent with, and use inputs from, our internal long-term business plan and strategies. Key assumptions used in these forecasts include: 
             
    Revenue trends.   Key revenue drivers for each reporting unit are determined and assessed. Significant factors include: customer and/or membership growth, medical trends and the impact and expectations of regulatory environments. Additional macro-economic assumptions relating to unemployment, GDP growth, interest rates and inflation are also evaluated and incorporated, as appropriate. 
                
    Medical cost trends.   For further discussion of medical cost trends, see the  Medical Cost Trend  section of Executive Overview-   Business Trends    above and the discussion in the  Medical Costs Payable     critical accounting estimate    above. Similar factors, including historical and expected medical cost trend levels, are considered in estimating our long-term medical trends at the reporting unit level. 
                
    Operating productivity.   We forecast expected operating cost levels based on historical levels and expectations of future operating cost levels. 
                
    Capital levels.   The operating and long-term capital requirements for each business are considered. 
     Discount rates are determined for each reporting unit and include consideration of the implied risk inherent in their forecasts. Our most significant estimate in the discount rate determinations involves our adjustments to the peer company weighted average costs of capital that reflect reporting unit-specific factors. We have not made any adjustments to decrease a discount rate below the calculated peer company weighted average cost of capital for any reporting unit. Company-specific adjustments to discount rates are subjective and thus are difficult to measure with certainty. The passage of time and the availability of additional information regarding areas of uncertainty with respect to the reporting units  operations could cause these assumptions to change in the future. We completed our annual impairment tests for goodwill as of October 1, 2017. All of our reporting units had fair values substantially in excess of their carrying values.  
  Intangible Assets.   Our finite-lived intangible assets are subject to impairment tests when events or circumstances indicate that an asset s (or asset group s) carrying value may exceed its estimated fair value. Consideration is given on a quarterly basis to a number of potential impairment indicators, including: changes in the use of the assets, changes in legal or other business factors that could affect value, experienced or expected operating cash-flow deterioration or losses, adverse changes in customer populations, adverse competitive or technological advances that could impact value and other factors.  
  Our indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if impairment indicators exist. To determine if an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, we compare its estimated fair value to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment would be recorded for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds its estimated fair value. Intangible assets were not impaired in 2017. 
  LEGAL MATTERS 
  A description of our legal proceedings is presented in    Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8,  Financial Statements.    
  CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK 
  Investments in financial instruments such as marketable securities and accounts receivable may subject us to concentrations of credit risk. Our investments in marketable securities are managed under an investment policy authorized by our Board of Directors. This policy limits the amounts that may be invested in any one issuer and generally limits our investments to U.S. government and agency securities, state and municipal securities and corporate debt obligations that are investment grade. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to accounts receivable are limited due to the large number of employer groups and other customers that constitute our client base. As of   December 31, 2017  , there were no significant concentrations of credit risk. 
   
  ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 
  Our primary market risks are exposures to changes in interest rates that impact our investment income and interest expense and the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate investments and debt, as well as foreign currency exchange rate risk of the U.S. dollar primarily to the Brazilian real. 
  As of December 31, 2017, we had $15 billion of financial assets on which the interest rates received vary with market interest rates, which may materially impact our investment income. Also as of December 31, 2017, $8.5 billion of our financial liabilities, which include commercial paper, debt and deposit liabilities, were at interest rates that vary with market rates, either directly or through the use of related interest rate swap contracts. 
  
   37 

     Table of Contents  

The fair value of certain of our fixed-rate investments and debt also varies with market interest rates. As of December 31, 2017, $25.9 billion of our investments were fixed-rate debt securities and $28.7 billion of our debt was non-swapped fixed-rate term debt. An increase in market interest rates decreases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. Conversely, a decrease in market interest rates increases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. 
  We manage exposure to market interest rates by diversifying investments across different fixed-income market sectors and debt across maturities, as well as by endeavoring to match our floating-rate assets and liabilities over time, either directly or through the use of interest rate swap contracts. Unrealized gains and losses on investments in available-for-sale securities are reported in comprehensive income. 
  The following tables summarize the impact of hypothetical changes in market interest rates across the entire yield curve by 1% point or 2% points as of   December 31, 2017   and 2016 on our investment income and interest expense per annum and the fair value of our investments and debt (in millions, except percentages):   

nm = not meaningful 
           (a) 
    Given the low absolute level of short-term market rates on our floating-rate assets and liabilities as of   December 31, 2017   and 2016, the assumed hypothetical change in interest rates does not reflect the full 100 and 200 basis point reduction, respectively, in interest income or interest expense, in 2017 and 2016, respectively, as the rate cannot fall below zero. 
              (b) 
    As of   December 31, 2017   and 2016, some of our investments had interest rates below 2% so the assumed hypothetical change in the fair value of investments does not reflect the full 200 basis point reduction. 
     We have an exposure to changes in the value of the Brazilian real to the U.S. dollar in translation of UnitedHealthcare Brazil s operating results at the average exchange rate over the accounting period, and UnitedHealthcare Brazil s assets and liabilities at the spot rate at the end of the accounting period. The gains or losses resulting from translating foreign assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars are included in equity and comprehensive income.  
  An appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Brazilian real reduces the carrying value of the net assets denominated in Brazilian real. For example, as of December 31, 2017, a hypothetical 10% and 25% increase in the value of the U.S. dollar against the Brazilian real would have caused a reduction in net assets of approximately $500 million and $1.1 billion, respectively. We manage exposure to foreign currency earnings risk primarily by conducting our international business operations in their functional currencies. 
  As of December 31, 2017, we had   $2.0 billion   of investments in equity securities, consisting of investments in non-U.S. dollar fixed-income funds; employee savings plan related investments; and dividend paying stocks. Valuations in non-U.S. dollar funds are subject to foreign exchange rates.  
  
   38 

Table of Contents  

ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
                   
    Page 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
    40 
       Consolidated Balance Sheets  
    41 
       Consolidated Statements of Operations  
    42 
       Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income  
    43 
       Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity  
    44 
       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  
    45 
       Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  
    46 
       1.     Description of Business  
    46 
       2.     Basis of Presentation, Use of Estimates and Significant Accounting Policies  
    46 
       3.     Investments     
    52 
       4.     Fair Value  
    54 
       5.     Property, Equipment and Capitalized Software  
    56 
       6.     Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  
    57 
       7.     Medical Costs Payable  
    58 
       8.     Commercial Paper and Long-Term Debt  
    59 
       9.     Income Taxes  
    60 
       10.   Shareholders  Equity  
    62 
       11.   Share-Based Compensation  
    63 
       12.   Commitments and Contingencies  
    65 
       13.   Segment Financial Information  
    66 
       14.   Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)  
    68 

39 

Table of Contents  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
  To the shareholders and the Board of Directors of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Subsidiaries: 
  Opinion on the Financial Statements 
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "financial statements"). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. 
  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 13, 2018, expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting. 
  Basis for Opinions 
  These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 

We have served as the Company's auditor since 2002. 

40 

Table of Contents  

UnitedHealth Group 
  Consolidated Balance Sheets 

See    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   

41 

Table of Contents  

UnitedHealth Group 
  Consolidated Statements of Operations 

See    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   
  
   42 

Table of Contents  

UnitedHealth Group 
  Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 

See    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   
  
   43 

Table of Contents  

UnitedHealth Group 
  Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity   

  See    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   
  
   44 

Table of Contents  

UnitedHealth Group 
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

See    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   
  
   45 

Table of Contents  

UnitedHealth Group 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
   
           1. 
    Description of Business 
     UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (individually and together with its subsidiaries,  UnitedHealth Group  and  the Company ) is a diversified health care company dedicated to helping people live healthier lives and helping make the health system work better for everyone. 
  Through its diversified family of businesses, the Company leverages core competencies in data and health information; advanced technology; and clinical expertise to help meet the demands of the health system. These core competencies are deployed within two distinct, but strategically aligned, business platforms: health benefits operating under UnitedHealthcare and health services operating under Optum.  
   
  2.   Basis of Presentation, Use of Estimates and Significant Accounting Policies 
   
  Basis of Presentation 
  The Company has prepared the Consolidated Financial Statements according to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and has included the accounts of UnitedHealth Group and its subsidiaries.  
   
  Use of Estimates 
  These Consolidated Financial Statements include certain amounts based on the Company s best estimates and judgments. The Company s most significant estimates relate to estimates and judgments for medical costs payable and revenues, valuation and impairment analysis of goodwill and other intangible assets and estimates of other current liabilities and other current receivables. Certain of these estimates require the application of complex assumptions and judgments, often because they involve matters that are inherently uncertain and will likely change in subsequent periods. The impact of any change in estimates is included in earnings in the period in which the estimate is adjusted. 
   
  Revenues  
  Premiums 
  Premium revenues are primarily derived from risk-based health insurance arrangements in which the premium is typically at a fixed rate per individual served for a one-year period, and the Company assumes the economic risk of funding its customers  health care and related administrative costs. 
  Premium revenues are recognized in the period in which eligible individuals are entitled to receive health care benefits. Health care premium payments received from the Company s customers in advance of the service period are recorded as unearned revenues. Fully insured commercial products of U.S. health plans, Medicare Advantage and Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit (Medicare Part D) plans with medical loss ratios as calculated under the definitions in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) and related federal and state regulations and implementing regulations, that fall below certain targets are required to rebate ratable portions of their premiums annually. Medicare Advantage premium revenue includes the impact of Centers for Medicare   Medicaid Services (CMS) quality bonuses based on plans  Star ratings. 
  Premium revenues are recognized based on the estimated premiums earned net of projected rebates because the Company is able to reasonably estimate the ultimate premiums of these contracts. The Company also records premium revenues from capitation arrangements at its OptumHealth businesses. 
  The Company s Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D premium revenues are subject to periodic adjustment under CMS  risk adjustment payment methodology. CMS deploys a risk adjustment model that apportions premiums paid to all health plans according to health severity and certain demographic factors. The CMS risk adjustment model provides higher per member payments for enrollees diagnosed with certain conditions and lower payments for enrollees who are healthier. Under this risk adjustment methodology, CMS calculates the risk adjusted premium payment using diagnosis data from hospital inpatient, hospital outpatient and physician treatment settings. The Company and health care providers collect, capture and submit the necessary and available diagnosis data to CMS within prescribed deadlines. The Company estimates risk adjustment premium revenues based upon the diagnosis data submitted and expected to be submitted to CMS. Risk adjustment data for the Company s plans are subject to review by the government, including audit by regulators. See    Note 12    for additional information regarding these audits. 
  
   46 

     Table of Contents  

Products and Services 
  For the Company s OptumRx pharmacy care services business, the majority of revenues are derived from products sold through a contracted network of retail pharmacies or home delivery and specialty pharmacy facilities. Product revenues include ingredient costs (net of rebates), a negotiated dispensing fee and customer co-payments for drugs dispensed through the Company s mail-service pharmacy.  In retail pharmacy transactions, revenues recognized exclude the member s applicable co-payment. Pharmacy products are billed to customers based on the number of transactions occurring during the billing period. Product revenues are recognized when the prescriptions are dispensed through the retail network or received by consumers through the Company s mail-service pharmacy. The Company has entered into contracts in which it is primarily obligated to pay its network pharmacy providers for benefits provided to their customers regardless of whether the Company is paid. The Company is also involved in establishing the prices charged by retail pharmacies, determining which drugs will be included in formulary listings and selecting which retail pharmacies will be included in the network offered to plan sponsors  members and accordingly, are reported on a gross basis. 
  Services revenue consists of fees derived from services performed for customers that self-insure the health care costs of their employees and employees  dependents. Under service fee contracts, the Company receives monthly, a fixed fee per employee, which is recognized as revenue as the Company performs, or makes available the applicable services to the customer. The customers retain the risk of financing health care costs for their employees and employees  dependents, and the Company administers the payment of customer funds to physicians and other health care professionals from customer-funded bank accounts. As the Company has neither the obligation for funding the health care costs, nor the primary responsibility for providing the medical care, the Company does not recognize premium revenue and medical costs for these contracts in its Consolidated Financial Statements. For these fee-based customer arrangements, the Company provides coordination and facilitation of medical services; transaction processing; customer, consumer and care professional services; and access to contracted networks of physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals. These services are performed throughout the contract period.  
  Revenues are also comprised of a number of services and products sold through Optum. OptumHealth s service revenues include net patient service revenues that are recorded based upon established billing rates, less allowances for contractual adjustments, and are recognized as services are provided. For its financial services offerings, OptumHealth charges fees and earns investment income on managed funds. OptumInsight provides software and information products, advisory consulting arrangements and services outsourcing contracts, which may be delivered over several years. OptumInsight revenues are generally recognized over time and measured each period based on the progress to date as services are performed or made available to customers. 
  As of   December 31, 2017  , accounts receivables related to products and services were   $3.7 billion  . In   2017  , the Company had no material bad-debt expense and there were no material contract assets, contract liabilities or deferred contract costs     recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of   December 31, 2017  . 
  For the year ended   December 31, 2017  , revenue recognized from performance obligations related to prior periods (for example, due to changes in transaction price), was not material. 
  Revenue expected to be recognized in any future year related to remaining performance obligations, excluding revenue pertaining to contracts that have an original expected duration of one year or less, contracts where revenue is recognized as invoiced and contracts with variable consideration related to undelivered performance obligations, is not material. 
  See    Note 13    for disaggregation of revenue by segment and type. 
   
  Medical Costs and Medical Costs Payable  
  The Company s estimate of medical costs payable represents management s best estimate of its liability for unpaid medical costs as of December 31, 2017. 
  Each period, the Company re-examines previously established medical costs payable estimates based on actual claim submissions and other changes in facts and circumstances. As more complete claim information becomes available, the Company adjusts the amount of the estimates and includes the changes in estimates in medical costs in the period in which the change is identified. Approximately   90%   of claims related to medical care services are known and settled within 90 days from the date of service and substantially all within twelve months. 
  Medical costs and medical costs payable include estimates of the Company s obligations for medical care services that have been rendered on behalf of insured consumers, but for which claims have either not yet been received, processed, or paid. The Company develops estimates for medical care services incurred but not reported (IBNR), which includes estimates for claims  
  
   47 

     Table of Contents  

that have not been received or fully processed, using an actuarial process that is consistently applied, centrally controlled and automated. The actuarial models consider factors such as time from date of service to claim processing, seasonal variances in medical care consumption, health care professional contract rate changes, medical care utilization and other medical cost trends, membership volume and demographics, the introduction of new technologies, benefit plan changes, and business mix changes related to products, customers and geography. 
  In developing its medical costs payable estimates, the Company applies different estimation methods depending on which incurred claims are being estimated. For the most recent two months, the Company estimates claim costs incurred by applying observed medical cost trend factors to the average per member per month (PMPM) medical costs incurred in prior months for which more complete claim data are available, supplemented by a review of near-term completion factors (actuarial estimates, based upon historical experience and analysis of current trends, of the percentage of incurred claims during a given period that have been adjudicated by the Company at the date of estimation). For months prior to the most recent two months, the Company applies the completion factors to actual claims adjudicated-to-date to estimate the expected amount of ultimate incurred claims for those months. 
   
  Cost of Products Sold  
  The Company s cost of products sold includes the cost of pharmaceuticals dispensed to unaffiliated customers either directly at its mail and specialty pharmacy locations, or indirectly through its nationwide network of participating pharmacies. Rebates attributable to non-affiliated clients are accrued as rebates receivable and a reduction of cost of products sold with a corresponding payable for the amounts of the rebates to be remitted to those non-affiliated clients in accordance with their contracts and recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as a reduction of product revenue. Cost of products sold also includes the cost of personnel to support the Company s transaction processing services, system sales, maintenance and professional services. 
   
  Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments  
  Cash and cash equivalents are highly liquid investments that have an original maturity of three months or less. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents approximates their carrying value because of the short maturity of the instruments.  
  Investments with maturities of less than one year are classified as short-term. Because of regulatory requirements, certain investments are included in long-term investments regardless of their maturity date. The Company classifies these investments as held-to-maturity and reports them at amortized cost. Substantially all other investments are classified as available-for-sale and reported at fair value based on quoted market prices, where available.  
  The Company excludes unrealized gains and losses on investments in available-for-sale securities from net earnings and reports them as comprehensive income and, net of income tax effects, as a separate component of equity. To calculate realized gains and losses on the sale of investments, the Company specifically identifies the cost of each investment sold.  
  The Company evaluates an investment for impairment by considering the length of time and extent to which market value has been less than cost or amortized cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer as well as specific events or circumstances that may influence the operations of the issuer and the Company s intent to sell the security or the likelihood that it will be required to sell the security before recovery of the entire amortized cost.  
  New information and the passage of time can change these judgments. The Company manages its investment portfolio to limit its exposure to any one issuer or market sector, and largely limits its investments to investment grade quality. Securities downgraded below policy minimums after purchase will be disposed of in accordance with the Company s investment policy.  
   
  Assets Under Management  
  The Company provides health insurance products and services to members of AARP under a Supplemental Health Insurance Program (the AARP Program) and to AARP members and non-members under separate Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D arrangements. The products and services under the AARP Program include supplemental Medicare benefits, hospital indemnity insurance, including insurance for individuals between 50 to 64 years of age and other related products.  
  Pursuant to the Company s agreement, AARP Program assets are managed separately from the Company s general investment portfolio and are used to pay costs associated with the AARP Program. These assets are invested at the Company s discretion, within investment guidelines approved by AARP. The Company does not guarantee any rates of return on these investments and, upon any transfer of the AARP Program contract to another entity, the Company would transfer cash equal in amount to the fair value of these investments at the date of transfer to that entity. Because the purpose of these assets is to fund the medical costs payable, the rate stabilization fund (RSF) liabilities and other related liabilities associated with this AARP contract, assets under management are classified as current assets, consistent with the classification of these liabilities. 
  
   48 

     Table of Contents  

The effects of changes in other balance sheet amounts associated with the AARP Program also accrue to the overall benefit of the AARP policyholders through the RSF balance. Accordingly, the Company excludes the effect of such changes in its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 
   
  Other Current Receivables  
  Other current receivables include amounts due from pharmaceutical manufacturers for rebates and Medicare Part D drug discounts and other miscellaneous amounts due to the Company.  
  The Company s pharmacy care services businesses contract with pharmaceutical manufacturers, some of which provide rebates based on use of the manufacturers  products by its affiliated and non-affiliated clients. The Company accrues rebates as they are earned by its clients on a monthly basis based on the terms of the applicable contracts, historical data and current estimates. The pharmacy care services businesses bill these rebates to the manufacturers on a monthly or quarterly basis depending on the contractual terms and record rebates attributable to affiliated clients as a reduction to medical costs. The Company generally receives rebates from two to five months after billing. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, total pharmaceutical manufacturer rebates receivable included in other receivables in the Consolidated Balance Sheets amounted to   $3.8 billion   and   $3.3 billion  , respectively. 
  As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company s Medicare Part D receivables amounted to   $0.5 billion   and   $1.5 billion  , respectively. 
   
  Property, Equipment and Capitalized Software  
  Property, equipment and capitalized software are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization. Capitalized software consists of certain costs incurred in the development of internal-use software, including external direct costs of materials and services and applicable payroll costs of employees devoted to specific software development.  
  The Company calculates depreciation and amortization using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The useful lives for property, equipment and capitalized software are:  

Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the shorter of the remaining lease term or their estimated useful economic life. 
   
  Goodwill  
  To determine whether goodwill is impaired, annually or more frequently if needed, the Company performs a multi-step impairment test. The Company may first assess qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not that the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. The Company may also elect to skip the qualitative testing and proceed directly to the quantitative testing. When performing quantitative testing, the Company first estimates the fair values of its reporting units using discounted cash flows. To determine fair values, the Company must make assumptions about a wide variety of internal and external factors. Significant assumptions used in the impairment analysis include financial projections of free cash flow (including significant assumptions about operations, capital requirements and income taxes), long-term growth rates for determining terminal value and discount rates. Comparative market multiples are used to corroborate the results of the discounted cash flow test. If the fair value is less than the carrying value of the reporting unit, then the implied value of goodwill would be calculated and compared to the carrying amount of goodwill to determine whether goodwill is impaired. 
  There was no impairment of goodwill during the year ended   December 31, 2017  . 
   
  Intangible Assets 
  The Company s intangible assets are subject to impairment tests when events or circumstances indicate that an intangible asset (or asset group) may be impaired. The Company s indefinite lived intangible assets are also tested for impairment annually. There was no impairment of intangible assets during the year ended   December 31, 2017  . 
   
  Other Current Liabilities  
  Other current liabilities include health savings account deposits (  $6.4 billion   and   $5.7 billion   as of   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively), deposits under the Medicare Part D program (  $1.6 billion  , and   $0.7 billion   as of   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively), the RSF associated with the AARP Program, accruals for premium rebate payments under the ACA, the current portion of future policy benefits and customer balances.  
  
   49 

Table of Contents  

Policy Acquisition Costs 
  The Company s short duration health insurance contracts typically have a one-year term and may be canceled by the customer with at least   30   days  notice. Costs related to the acquisition and renewal of short duration customer contracts are charged to expense as incurred. 
   
  Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests 
  Redeemable noncontrolling interests in the Company s subsidiaries whose redemption is outside the control of the Company are classified as temporary equity. The following table provides details of the Company's redeemable noncontrolling interests  activity for the years ended   December 31, 2017   and   2016  : 

Share-Based Compensation 
  The Company recognizes compensation expense for share-based awards, including stock options, stock-settled stock appreciation rights (SARs) and restricted stock and restricted stock units (collectively, restricted shares), on a straight-line basis over the related service period (generally the vesting period) of the award, or to an employee s eligible retirement date under the award agreement, if earlier. Restricted shares vest ratably, primarily over   two   to   five   years and compensation expense related to restricted shares is based on the share price on date of grant. Stock options and SARs vest ratably primarily over   four   years and may be exercised up to   10   years from the date of grant. Compensation expense related to stock options and SARs is based on the fair value at date of grant, which is estimated on the date of grant using a binomial option-pricing model. Under the Company s Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP), eligible employees are allowed to purchase the Company s stock at a discounted price, which is   85%   of the lower market price of the Company s common stock at the beginning or at the end of the six-month purchase period. Share-based compensation expense for all programs is recognized in operating costs in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.  
   
  Net Earnings Per Common Share  
  The Company computes basic earnings per common share attributable to UnitedHealth Group common shareholders by dividing net earnings attributable to UnitedHealth Group common shareholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. The Company determines diluted net earnings per common share attributable to UnitedHealth Group common shareholders using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period, adjusted for potentially dilutive shares associated with stock options, SARs, restricted shares and the ESPP (collectively, common stock equivalents), using the treasury stock method. The treasury stock method assumes a hypothetical issuance of shares to settle the share-based awards, with the assumed proceeds used to purchase common stock at the average market price for the period. Assumed proceeds include the amount the employee must pay upon exercise and any unrecognized compensation cost. The difference between the number of shares assumed issued and number of shares assumed purchased represents the dilutive shares.  
   
  Health Insurance Industry Tax 
  The ACA includes an annual, nondeductible insurance industry tax (Health Insurance Industry Tax) to be levied proportionally across the insurance industry for risk-based health insurance products. 
  The Company estimates its liability for the Health Insurance Industry Tax based on a ratio of the Company s applicable net premiums written compared to the U.S. health insurance industry total applicable net premiums, both for the previous calendar year. The Company records in full the estimated liability for the Health Insurance Industry Tax at the beginning of the calendar year with a corresponding deferred cost that is amortized to operating costs on the Consolidated Statements of Operations using a straight-line method over the calendar year. The liability is recorded in accounts payable and accrued liabilities and the corresponding deferred cost is recorded in prepaid expenses and other current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. A provision in the 2016 Federal Budget imposed a one year moratorium for 2017 on the collection of the Health Insurance Industry Tax.  
  
   50 

Table of Contents  

Recently Issued Accounting Standards 
  In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standard Update (ASU) No. 2016-02,  Leases (Topic 842)  (ASU 2016-02). Under ASU 2016-02, an entity will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for the rights and obligations created by leases on the entity s balance sheet for both finance and operating leases. For leases with a term of 12 months or less, an entity may elect to not recognize lease assets and lease liabilities and expense the lease over a straight-line basis for the term of the lease. ASU 2016-02 will require new disclosures that depict the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows pertaining to an entity s leases. Companies are currently required to adopt the new standard using a modified retrospective approach for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption of ASU 2016-02 is permitted. When adopted, the Company does not expect ASU 2016-02 to have a material impact on its results of operations, equity or cash flows. The impact of ASU 2016-02 on the Company s consolidated financial position will be based on leases outstanding at the time of adoption. 
  In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01,  Financial Instruments - Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  (ASU 2016-01). The new guidance changes the current accounting related to (i) the classification and measurement of certain equity investments, (ii) the presentation of changes in the fair value of financial liabilities measured under the fair value option that are due to instrument-specific credit risk, and (iii) certain disclosures associated with the fair value of financial instruments. Most notably, ASU 2016-01 requires that equity investments, with certain exemptions, be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income as opposed to other comprehensive income. The Company adopted ASU 2016-01 effective January 1, 2018 as required. ASU 2016-01 did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial position, results of operations, equity or cash flows. 
   
  Recently Adopted Accounting Standards 
  In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09,  Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)  as modified by subsequently issued ASUs 2015-14, 2016-08, 2016-10, 2016-12 and 2016-20 (collectively ASU 2014-09). ASU 2014-09 superseded existing revenue recognition standards with a single model unless those contracts are within the scope of other standards (e.g., an insurance entity s insurance contracts). The revenue recognition principle in ASU 2014-09 is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The Company early adopted the new standard effective January 1, 2017, as allowed, using the modified retrospective approach. A significant majority of the Company s revenues are not subject to the new guidance. The adoption of ASU 2014-09 did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial position, results of operations, equity or cash flows as of the adoption date or for the year ended December 31, 2017.  
  The Company has determined that there have been no other recently adopted or issued accounting standards that had, or will have, a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  
   51 

Table of Contents  

3.    Investments 
  A summary of short-term and long-term investments by major security type is as follows: 

Nearly all of the Company s investments in mortgage-backed securities were rated AAA as of   December 31, 2017  .  
  The amortized cost and fair value of debt securities as of   December 31, 2017  , by contractual maturity, were as follows:   

52 

     Table of Contents  

The fair value of available-for-sale investments with gross unrealized losses by major security type and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position were as follows: 

The Company s unrealized losses from all securities as of   December 31, 2017   were generated from approximately   13,000   positions out of a total of   29,000   positions. The Company believes that it will collect the principal and interest due on its debt securities that have an amortized cost in excess of fair value. The unrealized losses were primarily caused by interest rate increases and not by unfavorable changes in the credit quality associated with these securities. At each reporting period, the Company evaluates securities for impairment when the fair value of the investment is less than its amortized cost. The Company evaluated the underlying credit quality and credit ratings of the issuers, noting no significant deterioration since purchase. As of   December 31, 2017  , the Company did not have the intent to sell any of the securities in an unrealized loss position. Therefore, the Company believes these losses to be temporary.  
  The Company s investments in equity securities consist of investments in Brazilian real denominated fixed-income funds, employee savings plan related investments and dividend paying stocks. The Company evaluated its investments in equity securities for severity and duration of unrealized loss, overall market volatility and other market factors. Additionally, as of December 31, 2017, the Company s investments included   $898 million   of equity method investments in operating businesses in the health care sector. 
  Net realized gains reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income were from the following sources:   

53 

Table of Contents  

4.    Fair Value 
  Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value in the Consolidated Financial Statements or have fair values disclosed in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. These assets and liabilities are classified into one of three levels of a hierarchy defined by GAAP. In instances in which the inputs used to measure fair value fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy, the fair value measurement is categorized in its entirety based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. The Company s assessment of the significance of a particular item to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment, including the consideration of inputs specific to the asset or liability.  
  The fair value hierarchy is summarized as follows: 
  Level 1     Quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets/liabilities in active markets.  
  Level 2     Other observable inputs, either directly or indirectly, including: 
             
    Quoted prices for similar assets/liabilities in active markets; 
                
    Quoted prices for identical or similar assets/liabilities in inactive markets (e.g., few transactions, limited information, noncurrent prices, high variability over time); 
                
    Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset/liability (e.g., interest rates, yield curves, implied volatilities, credit spreads); and 
                
    Inputs that are corroborated by other observable market data. 
     Level 3     Unobservable inputs that cannot be corroborated by observable market data. 
  Transfers between levels, if any, are recorded as of the beginning of the reporting period in which the transfer occurs; there was   no   transfer between Levels 1, 2 or 3 of any financial assets or liabilities during the year ended   December 31, 2017   or   2016  . 
  Nonfinancial assets and liabilities or financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis are subject to fair value adjustments only in certain circumstances, such as when the Company records an impairment. There were no significant fair value adjustments for these assets and liabilities recorded during the year ended   December 31, 2017   or   2016  . 
  The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value and determine the fair value hierarchy classification of each class of financial instrument included in the tables below: 
  Cash and Cash Equivalents.   The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents approximates fair value as maturities are less than three months. Fair values of cash equivalent instruments that do not trade on a regular basis in active markets are classified as Level 2. 
  Debt and Equity Securities.   Fair values of debt and equity securities are based on quoted market prices, where available. The Company obtains one price for each security primarily from a third-party pricing service (pricing service), which generally uses quoted or other observable inputs for the determination of fair value. The pricing service normally derives the security prices through recently reported trades for identical or similar securities, and, if necessary, makes adjustments through the reporting date based upon available observable market information. For securities not actively traded, the pricing service may use quoted market prices of comparable instruments or discounted cash flow analyses, incorporating inputs that are currently observable in the markets for similar securities. Inputs that are often used in the valuation methodologies include, but are not limited to, benchmark yields, credit spreads, default rates, prepayment speeds and nonbinding broker quotes. As the Company is responsible for the determination of fair value, it performs quarterly analyses on the prices received from the pricing service to determine whether the prices are reasonable estimates of fair value. Specifically, the Company compares the prices received from the pricing service to prices reported by a secondary pricing source, such as its custodian, its investment consultant and third-party investment advisors. Additionally, the Company compares changes in the reported market values and returns to relevant market indices to test the reasonableness of the reported prices. The Company s internal price verification procedures and reviews of fair value methodology documentation provided by independent pricing services have not historically resulted in adjustment in the prices obtained from the pricing service. 
  Fair values of debt securities that do not trade on a regular basis in active markets but are priced using other observable inputs are classified as Level 2.  
  Fair value estimates for Level 1 and Level 2 equity securities are based on quoted market prices for actively traded equity securities and/or other market data for the same or comparable instruments and transactions in establishing the prices.  
  The fair values of Level 3 investments in venture capital portfolios are estimated using a market valuation technique that relies heavily on management assumptions and qualitative observations. Under the market approach, the fair values of the Company s various venture capital investments are computed using limited quantitative and qualitative observations of activity for similar companies in the current market. The Company s market modeling utilizes, as applicable, transactions for comparable companies in similar industries that also have similar revenue and growth characteristics and preferences in their capital structure. Key significant unobservable inputs in the market technique include implied earnings before interest, taxes,  
  
   54 

     Table of Contents  

depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) multiples and revenue multiples. Additionally, the fair values of certain of the Company s venture capital securities are based on recent transactions in inactive markets for identical or similar securities. Significant changes in any of these inputs could result in significantly lower or higher fair value measurements.  
  Throughout the procedures discussed above in relation to the Company s processes for validating third-party pricing information, the Company validates the understanding of assumptions and inputs used in security pricing and determines the proper classification in the hierarchy based on that understanding. 
  Assets Under Management.   Assets under management consists of debt securities and other investments held to fund costs associated with the AARP Program and are priced and classified using the same methodologies as the Company s investments in debt and equity securities. 
  Long-Term Debt.   The fair values of the Company s long-term debt are estimated and classified using the same methodologies as the Company s investments in debt securities. 
  The following table presents a summary of fair value measurements by level and carrying values for items measured at fair value on a recurring basis in the Consolidated Balance Sheets: 

55 

     Table of Contents  

The following table presents a summary of fair value measurements by level and carrying values for certain financial instruments not measured at fair value on a recurring basis in the Consolidated Balance Sheets: 

The carrying amounts reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets for other current financial assets and liabilities approximate fair value because of their short-term nature. These assets and liabilities are not listed in the table above.  
   
  5.    Property, Equipment and Capitalized Software 
  A summary of property, equipment and capitalized software is as follows:  

Depreciation expense for property and equipment for the years ended   December 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015   was   $799 million  ,   $698 million   and   $613 million  , respectively. Amortization expense for capitalized software for the years ended   December 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015   was   $550 million  ,   $475 million   and   $430 million  , respectively.  
  
   56 

Table of Contents  

6.    Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
  Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill, by reportable segment, were as follows: 

The gross carrying value, accumulated amortization and net carrying value of other intangible assets were as follows:    

  The acquisition date fair values and weighted-average useful lives assigned to finite-lived intangible assets acquired in business combinations consisted of the following by year of acquisition:   

     Estimated full year amortization expense relating to intangible assets for each of the next five years ending December 31 is as follows:   

  Amortization expense relating to intangible assets for the years ended   December 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015   was   $896 million  ,   $882 million   and   $650 million  , respectively.  
  
   57 

Table of Contents  

7.    Medical Costs Payable 
  The following table shows the components of the change in medical costs payable for the years ended December 31:  

For the year ended   December 31, 2017  , medical cost reserve development was primarily driven by lower than expected health system utilization levels. For the years ended   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , no individual factors were significant  . 
  Medical costs payable included IBNR of   $12.3 billion   and   $11.6 billion   at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. Substantially all of the IBNR balance as of   December 31, 2017   relates to the current year. The following is information about incurred and paid medical cost development as of   December 31, 2017  :    

58 

Table of Contents  

8.     Commercial Paper and Long-Term Debt  
  Commercial paper and senior unsecured long-term debt consisted of the following:   

59 

     Table of Contents  

In 2017, the Company repaid   $926 million   in debt assumed in connection with an acquisition. The Company s long-term debt obligations also included   $625 million   and   $200 million   of other financing obligations, of which   $107 million   and   $80 million   were current as of   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively.  
  Maturities of commercial paper and long-term debt for the years ending December 31 are as follows:    

  Commercial Paper and Revolving Bank Credit Facilities 
  Commercial paper consists of short-duration, senior unsecured debt privately placed on a discount basis through broker-dealers. As of   December 31, 2017  , the Company s outstanding commercial paper had a weighted-average annual interest rate of   1.5%  . 
  The Company has   $3.0 billion   five-year,   $3.0 billion   three-year and   $4.0 billion   364-day revolving bank credit facilities with   26   banks, which mature in   December 2022  ,   December 2020   and   December 2018  , respectively. These facilities provide liquidity support for the Company s commercial paper program and are available for general corporate purposes. As of   December 31, 2017  , no amounts had been drawn on any of the bank credit facilities. The annual interest rates, which are variable based on term, are calculated based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a credit spread based on the Company s senior unsecured credit ratings. If amounts had been drawn on the bank credit facilities as of   December 31, 2017  , annual interest rates would have ranged from   2.4%   to   2.7%  . 
  Debt Covenants 
  The Company s bank credit facilities contain various covenants, including requiring the Company to maintain a debt to debt-plus-shareholders  equity ratio of not more than   55%  . The Company was in compliance with its debt covenants as of   December 31, 2017  . 
   
  9.    Income Taxes  
  The current income tax provision reflects the tax consequences of revenues and expenses currently taxable or deductible on various income tax returns for the year reported. The deferred income tax provision or benefit generally reflects the net change in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the year, excluding any deferred income tax assets and liabilities of acquired businesses. The components of the provision for income taxes for the years ended     December 31 are as follows: 

. 
  
   60 

     Table of Contents  

The reconciliation of the tax provision at the U.S. federal statutory rate to the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate for the years ended December 31 is as follows: 

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the differences between the financial and income tax reporting bases of assets and liabilities based on enacted tax rates and laws. The components of deferred income tax assets and liabilities as of December 31 are as follows: 

On December 22, 2017, the U.S. federal government enacted a tax bill, H.R.1, An Act to Provide for Reconciliation Pursuant to Titles II and V of the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2018 (Tax Reform). Tax Reform changed existing United States tax law, including a reduction of the U.S. corporate income tax rate. The Company re-measured deferred taxes as of the date of enactment, which resulted in the   $1.2 billion   reduction of net deferred income tax liabilities. The Company s measurement of the income tax effects of Tax Reform for the year ended December 31, 2017 is reasonably estimated and, therefore, included in these financial statements in accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118.  
  Valuation allowances are provided when it is considered more likely than not that deferred tax assets will not be realized. The valuation allowances primarily relate to future tax benefits on certain federal, state and non-U.S. net operating loss carryforwards. Federal net operating loss carryforwards of   $235 million   expire beginning in 2022 through 2037; state net operating loss carryforwards expire beginning in 2018 through 2037. Substantially all of the non-U.S. tax loss carryforwards have indefinite carryforward periods.  
  
   61 

     Table of Contents  

As of   December 31, 2017  , the Company s undistributed earnings from non-U.S. subsidiaries are intended to be indefinitely reinvested in non-U.S. operations, and therefore no U.S. deferred taxes have been recorded. Taxes payable on the remittance of such earnings would be minimal. 
  A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31 is as follows:    

  The Company believes it is reasonably possible that its liability for unrecognized tax benefits will decrease in the next twelve months by   $210 million   as a result of audit settlements and the expiration of statutes of limitations. 
  The Company classifies interest and penalties associated with uncertain income tax positions as income taxes within its Consolidated Statements of Operations. During the years ended   December 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , the Company recognized   $14 million  ,   $11 million   and   $11 million   of interest and penalties, respectively. The Company had   $84 million   and   $70 million   of accrued interest and penalties for uncertain tax positions as of   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. These amounts are not included in the reconciliation above. As of   December 31, 2017  , there were   $472 million   of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate. 
  The Company currently files income tax returns in the United States, various states and localities and non-U.S. jurisdictions. The U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed exams on the consolidated income tax returns for fiscal years   2016   and prior. The Company s   2017   tax year is under advance review by the IRS under its Compliance Assurance Program. With the exception of a few states, the Company is no longer subject to income tax examinations prior to the 2011 tax year. In general, the Company is subject to examination in non-U.S. jurisdictions for years 2012 and forward. 
   
  10.    Shareholders' Equity 
  Regulatory Capital and Dividend Restrictions 
  The Company s regulated insurance and HMO subsidiaries in the United States are subject to regulations and standards in their respective jurisdictions. These standards, among other things, require these subsidiaries to maintain specified levels of statutory capital, as defined by each jurisdiction, and restrict the timing and amount of dividends and other distributions that may be paid to their parent companies. In the United States, most of these regulations and standards are generally consistent with model regulations established by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. These standards generally permit dividends to be paid from statutory unassigned surplus of the regulated subsidiary and are limited based on the regulated subsidiary s level of statutory net income and statutory capital and surplus. These dividends are referred to as  ordinary dividends  and generally may be paid without prior regulatory approval. If the dividend, together with other dividends paid within the preceding twelve months, exceeds a specified statutory limit or is paid from sources other than earned surplus, it is generally considered an  extraordinary dividend  and must receive prior regulatory approval.  
  For the year ended   December 31, 2017  , the Company s regulated subsidiaries paid their parent companies dividends of   $3.7 billion  , including   $1.1 billion   of extraordinary dividends. For the year ended   December 31, 2016  , the Company s regulated subsidiaries paid their parent companies dividends of   $3.9 billion  , including   $3.3 billion   of extraordinary dividends.  
  The Company's regulated subsidiaries had estimated aggregate statutory capital and surplus of   $20.7 billion   as of   December 31, 2017  . The estimated statutory capital and surplus necessary to satisfy regulatory requirements of the Company's regulated subsidiaries was approximately   $12.2 billion   as of   December 31, 2017  . 
  Optum Bank must meet minimum requirements for Tier 1 leverage capital, Tier 1 risk-based capital, common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital and total risk-based capital of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) to be considered  Well  
  
   62 

     Table of Contents  

Capitalized  under the capital adequacy rules to which it is subject. At   December 31, 2017  , the Company believes that Optum Bank met the FDIC requirements to be considered  Well Capitalized.  
  Share Repurchase Program 
  Under its Board of Directors  authorization, the Company maintains a share repurchase program. The objectives of the share repurchase program are to optimize the Company s capital structure and cost of capital, thereby improving returns to shareholders, as well as to offset the dilutive impact of share-based awards. Repurchases may be made from time to time in open market purchases or other types of transactions (including prepaid or structured share repurchase programs), subject to certain Board restrictions. In June 2014, the Board renewed the Company s share repurchase program with an authorization to 
  repurchase up to   100 million   shares of its common stock. 
    
  A summary of common share repurchases for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 is as follows: 

Dividends 
  In June 2017, the Company s Board of Directors increased the Company s quarterly cash dividend to shareholders to equal an annual dividend rate of   $3.00   per share compared to the annual dividend rate of   $2.50   per share, which the Company had paid since June 2016. Declaration and payment of future quarterly dividends is at the discretion of the Board and may be adjusted as business needs or market conditions change. 
   
  11.    Share-Based Compensation 
  The Company s outstanding share-based awards consist mainly of non-qualified stock options, SARs and restricted shares. As of   December 31, 2017  , the Company had   51 million   shares available for future grants of share-based awards under the Plan. As of   December 31, 2017  , there were also   9 million   shares of common stock available for issuance under the ESPP.  
  Stock Options and SARs 
  Stock option and SAR activity for the year ended   December 31, 2017   is summarized in the table below:   

  Restricted Shares 
  Restricted share activity for the year ended   December 31, 2017   is summarized in the table below: 
                             (shares in millions) 
      
    Shares 
      
    Weighted-Average 
  Grant Date 
  Fair Value 
  per Share 
      Nonvested at beginning of period 
      
    7 

$ 
    96 
      
      Granted 
      
    3 

163 
      
      Vested 
      
    (3 
    ) 
      
    84 
      
      Nonvested at end of period 
      
    7 

128 

63 

     Table of Contents  

Other Share-Based Compensation Data   

                       (in millions, except years) 
      
    December 31, 2017 
      Unrecognized compensation expense related to share awards 
      
    $ 
    593 
      
      Weighted-average years to recognize compensation expense 
      
    1.3 

Share-Based Compensation Recognition and Estimates 
  The principal assumptions the Company used in calculating grant-date fair value for stock options and SARs were as follows: 

Risk-free interest rates are based on U.S. Treasury yields in effect at the time of grant. Expected volatilities are based on the historical volatility of the Company s common stock and the implied volatility from exchange-traded options on the Company s common stock. Expected dividend yields are based on the per share cash dividend paid by the Company. The Company uses historical data to estimate option and SAR exercises and forfeitures within the valuation model. The expected lives of options and SARs granted represents the period of time that the awards granted are expected to be outstanding based on historical exercise patterns. 
  Other Employee Benefit Plans  
  The Company offers a 401(k) plan for its employees. Compensation expense related to this plan was not material for 2017, 2016 and 2015. 
    
  In addition, the Company maintains non-qualified, deferred compensation plans, which allow certain members of senior management and executives to defer portions of their salary or bonus and receive certain Company contributions on such deferrals, subject to plan limitations. The deferrals are recorded within long-term investments with an approximately equal amount in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The total deferrals are distributable based upon termination of employment or other periods, as elected under each plan and were   $865 million   and   $672 million   as of   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively.  

64 

Table of Contents  

12.    Commitments and Contingencies 
  The Company leases facilities and equipment under long-term operating leases that are non-cancelable and expire on various dates. Rent expense under all operating leases for the years ended   December 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015   was   $710 million  ,   $608 million   and   $555 million  , respectively.  
  As of   December 31, 2017  , future minimum annual lease payments, net of sublease income, under all non-cancelable operating leases were as follows:  

The Company provides guarantees related to its service level under certain contracts. If minimum standards are not met, the Company may be financially at risk up to a stated percentage of the contracted fee or a stated dollar amount. None of the amounts accrued, paid or charged to income for service level guarantees were material as of   December 31, 2017  ,   2016   or   2015  .  
  As of   December 31, 2017  , the Company had outstanding, undrawn letters of credit with financial institutions of   $72 million   and surety bonds outstanding with insurance companies of   $1.4 billion  , primarily to bond contractual performance.  
  Pending Acquisition 
  In December 2017, the Company entered into agreements to acquire two companies in the health care sector for a total of approximately   $7.7 billion  . One of the acquisitions closed in January 2018; the other is expected to close later in 2018, subject to regulatory approval and other customary closing conditions.  
  Legal Matters 
  Because of the nature of its businesses, the Company is frequently made party to a variety of legal actions and regulatory inquiries, including class actions and suits brought by members, care providers, consumer advocacy organizations, customers and regulators, relating to the Company s businesses, including management and administration of health benefit plans and other services. These matters include medical malpractice, employment, intellectual property, antitrust, privacy and contract claims and claims related to health care benefits coverage and other business practices. 
  The Company records liabilities for its estimates of probable costs resulting from these matters where appropriate. Estimates of costs resulting from legal and regulatory matters involving the Company are inherently difficult to predict, particularly where the matters: involve indeterminate claims for monetary damages or may involve fines, penalties or punitive damages; present novel legal theories or represent a shift in regulatory policy; involve a large number of claimants or regulatory bodies; are in the early stages of the proceedings; or could result in a change in business practices. Accordingly, the Company is often unable to estimate the losses or ranges of losses for those matters where there is a reasonable possibility or it is probable that a loss may be incurred. 
  Government Investigations, Audits and Reviews 
  The Company has been involved or is currently involved in various governmental investigations, audits and reviews. These include routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews by the CMS, state insurance and health and welfare departments, the Brazilian national regulatory agency for private health insurance and plans (the Ag ncia Nacional de Sa de Suplementar), state attorneys general, the Office of the Inspector General, the Office of Personnel Management, the Office of Civil Rights, the Government Accountability Office, the Federal Trade Commission, U.S. Congressional committees, the U.S. Department of Justice, the SEC, the Internal Revenue Service, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, the Brazilian federal revenue service (the Secretaria da Receita Federal), the U.S. Department of Labor, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Defense Contract Audit Agency and other governmental authorities. Certain of the Company s businesses have been reviewed or are currently under review, including for, among other matters, compliance with coding and other requirements under the Medicare risk-adjustment model. CMS has selected certain of the Company s local plans for risk adjustment data validation (RADV) audits to validate the coding practices of and supporting documentation maintained by health care providers and such audits may result in retrospective adjustments to payments made to the Company s health plans. 
  
   65 

     Table of Contents  

On February 14, 2017, the Department of Justice (DOJ) announced its decision to pursue certain claims within a lawsuit initially asserted against the Company and filed under seal by a whistleblower in 2011. The whistleblower s complaint, which was unsealed on February 15, 2017, alleges that the Company, along with a number of other Medicare Advantage plans, made improper risk adjustment submissions and violated the False Claims Act. On March 24, 2017, DOJ intervened in a separate lawsuit initially asserted against the Company and filed by a whistleblower in 2009 concerning risk adjustment submissions by Medicare Advantage plans. On October 5, 2017, in one of the cases, the district court dismissed certain of DOJ s claims with prejudice, and dismissed all of DOJ s remaining claims with leave to file a further amended complaint; on October 12, the DOJ filed a notice of dismissal without prejudice of the case. The other case is now pending in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. The Company cannot reasonably estimate the outcome that may result from this remaining matter given its current posture. 
   
  13.    Segment Financial Information 
  Factors used to determine the Company s reportable segments include the nature of operating activities, economic characteristics, existence of separate senior management teams and the type of information used by the Company s chief operating decision maker to evaluate its results of operations. Reportable segments with similar economic characteristics, products and services, customers, distribution methods and operational processes that operate in a similar regulatory environment are combined. 
  The following is a description of the types of products and services from which each of the Company s   four   reportable segments derives its revenues: 
             
    UnitedHealthcare   includes the combined results of operations of UnitedHealthcare Employer   Individual, UnitedHealthcare Medicare   Retirement, UnitedHealthcare Community   State and UnitedHealthcare Global. The U.S. businesses share significant common assets, including a contracted network of physicians, health care professionals, hospitals and other facilities, information technology infrastructure and other resources. UnitedHealthcare Employer   Individual offers an array of consumer-oriented health benefit plans and services for large national employers, public sector employers, mid-sized employers, small businesses and individuals nationwide. UnitedHealthcare Medicare   Retirement provides health care coverage and health and well-being services to individuals age 50 and older, addressing their unique needs for preventive and acute health care services as well as services dealing with chronic disease and other specialized issues for older individuals. UnitedHealthcare Community   State s primary customers oversee Medicaid plans, the Children s Health Insurance Program and other federal, state and community health care programs. UnitedHealthcare Global is a diversified global health services business with a variety of offerings, including international commercial health and dental benefits and health care delivery. 
                
    OptumHealth   serves the physical, emotional and health-related financial needs of individuals, enabling population health management through programs offered by employers, payers, government entities and directly with the care delivery system. OptumHealth offers access to networks of care provider specialists, health management services, care delivery, consumer engagement and financial services. 
                
    OptumInsight   provides services, technology and health care expertise to major participants in the health care industry. Hospital systems, physicians, health plans, governments, life sciences companies and other organizations that comprise the health care industry depend on OptumInsight to help them improve performance, achieve efficiency, reduce costs, meet compliance mandates and modernize their core operating systems to meet the changing needs of the health system. 
                
    OptumRx   offers pharmacy care services and programs, including retail network contracting, home delivery and specialty pharmacy services, purchasing and clinical capabilities, and develops programs in areas such as step therapy, formulary management, drug adherence and disease/drug therapy management.  
     The Company s accounting policies for reportable segment operations are consistent with those described in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (see    Note 2   ). Transactions between reportable segments principally consist of sales of pharmacy care products and services to UnitedHealthcare customers by OptumRx, certain product offerings and care management and local care delivery services sold to UnitedHealthcare by OptumHealth, and health information and technology solutions, consulting and other services sold to UnitedHealthcare by OptumInsight. These transactions are recorded at management s estimate of fair value. Intersegment transactions are eliminated in consolidation. Assets and liabilities that are jointly used are assigned to each reportable segment using estimates of pro-rata usage. Cash and investments are assigned such that each reportable segment has working capital and/or at least minimum specified levels of regulatory capital.  
  As a percentage of the Company s total consolidated revenues, premium revenues from CMS were   28%  ,   25%   and   26%   for   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , respectively, most of which were generated by UnitedHealthcare Medicare   Retirement and included in the UnitedHealthcare segment. U.S. customer revenue represented approximately   96%  ,   97%   and   96%   of consolidated total revenues for   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , respectively. Long-lived fixed assets located in the United States represented approximately  
  
   66 

     Table of Contents  

77%   and   75%   of the total long-lived fixed assets as of   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. The non-U.S. revenues and fixed assets are primarily related to UnitedHealthcare Global. 
  The following table presents the reportable segment financial information:   

67 

Table of Contents  

14.    Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)  
  Selected quarterly financial information for all quarters of   2017   and   2016   is as follows:     

ITEM 9.  
    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  
     None. 
   
           ITEM 9A. 
    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  
     EVALUATION OF DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
   
  We maintain disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is (i) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms; and (ii) accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 
  In connection with the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, management evaluated, under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of   December 31, 2017  . Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level as of   December 31, 2017  . 
   
  CHANGES IN INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 
  There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2017 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 

68 

Table of Contents  

Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting as of December 31, 2017  
  Management of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Subsidiaries (the Company) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company s internal control system is designed to provide reasonable assurance to our management and board of directors regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The Company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.  
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  
  Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2017  . In making this assessment, we used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in   Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013).   Based on our assessment and the COSO criteria, we believe that, as of   December 31, 2017  , the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting.  
  The Company s independent registered public accounting firm has audited the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2017  , as stated in the    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   , appearing under Item 9A.  
  
   69 

Table of Contents  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
    
  To the shareholders and the Board of Directors of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Subsidiaries: 
  Opinions on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
  We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2017, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO. 
  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2017, of the Company and our report dated February 13, 2018, expressed an unqualified opinion on consolidated financial statements. 
  Basis for Opinions 
  The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting as of December 31, 2017. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. 
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

70 

Table of Contents  

ITEM 9B.  
    OTHER INFORMATION  
     None.  
   
  PART III 
   
           ITEM  10. 
    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  
     DIRECTORS OF THE REGISTRANT 
  The following sets forth certain information regarding our directors as of   February 13, 2018  , including their name and principal occupation or employment: 
                   William C. Ballard, Jr. 
      
    Valerie Montgomery Rice, M.D 
      Former Of Counsel 
  Bingham Greenebaum Doll LLP  
      
    President and Dean 
  Morehouse School of Medicine 

Richard T. Burke 
      
    Glenn M. Renwick 
      Lead Independent Director 
  UnitedHealth Group 
      
    Chair 
  Fiserv, Inc. 

Timothy P. Flynn 
      
    Kenneth I. Shine, M.D. 
      Retired Chair 
  KPMG International 
      
    Professor of Medicine at the Dell Medical School 
  University of Texas 

Stephen J. Hemsley 
      
    David S. Wichmann 
      Executive Chair 
  UnitedHealth Group 
      
    Chief Executive Officer 
  UnitedHealth Group 

Michele J. Hooper 
      
    Gail R. Wilensky, Ph.D. 
      President and Chief Executive Officer 
  The Directors  Council, a company focused on improving 
  the governance processes of corporate boards 
      
    Senior Fellow  
  Project HOPE, an international health foundation 

Rodger A. Lawson 
      
    Andrew P. Witty 
      Executive Chair 
  E*TRADE Financial Corporation and  
  Retired President and Chief Executive Officer 
  Fidelity Investments - Financial Services 
      
    Former Chief Executive Officer 
  GlaxoSmithKline 
  Chancellor 
  University of Nottingham 

Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K and Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K, information regarding our executive officers is provided in    Item 1 of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K    under the caption  Executive Officers of the Registrant.   
  We have adopted a code of ethics applicable to our principal executive officer and other senior financial officers, who include our principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, controller and persons performing similar functions. The code of ethics, entitled Code of Conduct: Our Principles of Ethics and Integrity, is posted on our website at   www.unitedhealthgroup.com  . For information about how to obtain the Code of Conduct, see    Part I, Item 1,  Business.     We intend to satisfy the SEC s disclosure requirements regarding amendments to, or waivers of, the code of ethics for our senior financial officers by posting such information on our website indicated above. 
  The remaining information required by Items 401, 405, 406 and 407(c)(3), (d)(4) and (d)(5) of Regulation S-K will be included under the headings  Corporate Governance,   Proposal 1-Election of Directors  and  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in our definitive proxy statement for our   2018   Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and such required information is incorporated herein by reference.  
   
           ITEM  11. 
    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  
     The information required by Items 402, 407(e)(4) and (e)(5) of Regulation S-K will be included under the headings  Executive Compensation,   Director Compensation,   Corporate Governance - Risk Oversight  and  Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  in our definitive proxy statement for our   2018   Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and such required information is incorporated herein by reference.  
  
   71 

Table of Contents  

ITEM  12. 
    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS  
     Equity Compensation Plan Information  
  The following table sets forth certain information, as of   December 31, 2017  , concerning shares of common stock authorized for issuance under all of our equity compensation plans: 
                                     Plan category    
      
    (a) 
  Number of securities 
  to be issued upon 
  exercise of 
  outstanding 
  options, warrants 
  and rights    
      
    (b) 
  Weighted-average 
  exercise 
  price of 
  outstanding 
  options, warrants 
  and rights     
      
    (c) 
  Number of securities 
  remaining available for 
  future issuance under 
  equity compensation 
  plans (excluding 
  securities reflected in 
  column (a))     

(in millions) 

(in millions) 
      
      Equity compensation plans approved by shareholders    (1)  
      
    35 

$ 
    106 

60 
      
     (3)   
      Equity compensation plans not approved by shareholders    (2)  

Total    (2)  
      
    35 

$ 
    106 

60 

(1) 
    Consists of the UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and the UnitedHealth Group 1993 ESPP, as amended. 
              (2) 
    Excludes 2,818,000 shares underlying stock options assumed by us in connection with acquisitions. These options have a weighted-average exercise price of $61 and an average remaining term of approximately 3 years. The options are administered pursuant to the terms of the plan under which the options originally were granted. No future awards will be granted under this acquired plan. 
              (3) 
    Includes 9 million shares of common stock available for future issuance under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan as of December 31, 2017, and 51 million shares available under the 2011 Stock Incentive Plan as of   December 31, 2017  . Shares available under the 2011 Stock Incentive Plan may become the subject of future awards in the form of stock options, SARs, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance awards and other stock-based awards. 
     The information required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K will be included under the heading  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  in our definitive proxy statement for our   2018   Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and such required information is incorporated herein by reference. 
   
           ITEM  13. 
    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE  
     The information required by Items 404 and 407(a) of Regulation S-K will be included under the headings  Certain Relationships and Transactions  and  Corporate Governance  in our definitive proxy statement for our   2018   Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and such required information is incorporated herein by reference.  
   
  ITEM  14.        PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES  
  The information required by Item 9(e) of Schedule 14A will be included under the heading  Disclosure of Fees Paid to Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  in our definitive proxy statement for our   2018   Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and such required information is incorporated herein by reference.  
  
   72 

Table of Contents  

PART IV 
   
  ITEM  15.        EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  
           (a) 
    1  . Financial Statements  
     The financial statements are included under Item 8 of this report: 

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.  
                     
     Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  
       
  2  . Financial Statement Schedules  
  The following financial statement schedule of the Company is included in Item 15(c):  
      Schedule I - Condensed Financial Information of Registrant (Parent Company Only).   
  All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulations of the SEC are not required under the related instructions, are inapplicable, or the required information is included in the consolidated financial statements, and therefore have been omitted. 
           (b) 
    The following exhibits are filed or incorporated by reference herein in response to Item 601 of Regulation S-K. The Company files Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 under Commission File No. 1 10864. 
     EXHIBIT INDEX**                      3.1  

Certificate of Incorporation of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Registration Statement on Form 8-A/A, Commission File No. 1-10864, filed on July 1, 2015)  
       3.2  

Bylaws of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, effective August 15, 2017 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 16, 2017)  
      4.1 

Senior Indenture, dated as of November 15, 1998, between United HealthCare Corporation and The Bank of New York (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Registration Statement on Form S-3/A, SEC File Number 333-66013, filed on January 11, 1999) 
       4.2  

Amendment, dated as of November 6, 2000, to Senior Indenture, dated as of November 15, 1998, between the UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and The Bank of New York (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2001)  
       4.3  

Instrument of Resignation, Appointment and Acceptance of Trustee, dated January 8, 2007, pursuant to the Senior Indenture, dated as of November 15, 1988, amended as of November 6, 2000, among UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, The Bank of New York and Wilmington Trust Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007)  
       4.4  

Indenture, dated as of February 4, 2008, between UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and U.S. Bank National Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Registration Statement on Form S-3, SEC File Number 333-149031, filed on February 4, 2008)  
      *   10.1  

UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated in 2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 5, 2015)  
      *   10.2  

Amendment to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Stock Option and Stock Appreciation Right Awards, effective November 6, 2014 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014)  
      *   10.3  

Form of Agreement for Non-Qualified Stock Option Award to Executives under UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s 2011 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated in 2015, for awards made after January 1, 2016 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2015)  

73 

     Table of Contents  

*   10.4  

Form of Agreement for Non-Qualified Stock Option Award for International Participants under UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s 2011 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013)  
      *   10.5  

Form of Addendum for Non-Qualified Stock Option Award Agreement for International Participants under UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s 2011 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.37 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012)  
      *   10.6  

Form of Agreement for Restricted Stock Unit Award to Executives under UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s 2011 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated in 2015, for awards made after January 1, 2016 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2015)  
      *   10.7  

Form of Agreement for Restricted Stock Award to Executives under UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s 2011 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 27, 2011)  
      *   10.8  

Form of Agreement for Stock Appreciation Rights Award to Executives under UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s 2011 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 27, 2011)  
      *   10.9  

Form of Agreement for Performance-based Restricted Stock Unit Award to Executives under UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s 2011 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated in 2015, for awards made after January 1, 2016 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2015)  
      *   10.10  

Form of Agreement for Initial Deferred Stock Unit Award to Non-Employee Directors under UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s 2011 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 27, 2011)  
      *   10.11  

Form of Agreement for Deferred Stock Unit Award to Non-Employee Directors under UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s 2011 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 27, 2011)  
       10.12  

Form of Indemnification Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 1, 2015)  
      *   10.13  

Amended and Restated UnitedHealth Group Incorporated Executive Incentive Plan (2009 Statement), effective as of December 31, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008)  
      *   10.14  

Amended and Restated UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2008 Executive Incentive Plan, effective as of December 31, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008)  
      *   10.15  

Amendment, dated as of December 21, 2012, of Amended and Restated UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2008 Executive Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012)  
      *   10.16  

Second Amendment, dated as of November 5, 2015, of Amended and Restated UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2008 Executive Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2015)  
      *   10.17  

UnitedHealth Group Executive Savings Plan (2004 Statement) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003)  
      *   10.18  

First Amendment to UnitedHealth Group Executive Savings Plan (2004 Statement) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 3, 2006)  
      *   10.19  

Second Amendment to UnitedHealth Group Executive Savings Plan (2004 Statement) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007)  
      *   10.20  

Third Amendment to UnitedHealth Group Executive Savings Plan (2004 Statement) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008)  
      *   10.21  

Fourth Amendment to UnitedHealth Group Executive Savings Plan (2004 Statement) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010)  
      *   10.22  

Fifth Amendment to UnitedHealth Group Executive Savings Plan (2004 Statement) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2014)  
      *   10.23  

Sixth Amendment to UnitedHealth Group Executive Savings Plan (2004 Statement) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2015)  

74 

     Table of Contents  

*   10.24  

Seventh Amendment to UnitedHealth Group Executive Savings Plan (2004 Statement) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016)  
      *   10.25  

Summary of Non-Management Director Compensation, effective as of August 15, 2017 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2017)  
      *   10.26  

UnitedHealth Group Directors  Compensation Deferral Plan (2009 Statement) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008)  
      *   10.27  

Amendment to the UnitedHealth Group Directors  Compensation Deferral Plan, effective as of January 1, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009)  
      *   10.28  

First Amendment to UnitedHealth Group Directors  Compensation Deferral Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010)  
      *   10.29  

Catamaran Corporation Third Amended and Restated Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Registration Statement on Form S-8, SEC File Number 333-205824, filed on July 23, 2015)  
      *   10.30  

Catalyst Health Solutions, Inc. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Registration Statement on Form S-8, SEC File Number 333-205824, filed on July 23, 2015)  
      *   10.31  

Audax Health Solutions, Inc. 2010 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on Form S-8, SEC File Number 333-205826, filed on February 15, 2017)  
    
      *   10.32  

Surgical Care Affiliates, Inc. 2016 Omnibus Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 on Form S-8 to Registration Statement on Form S-4, SEC File Number 333-216153, filed on March 27, 2017)  
      *   10.33  

Surgical Care Affiliates, Inc. 2013 Omnibus Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 on Form S-8 to Registration Statement on Form S-4, SEC File Number 333-216153, filed on March 27, 2017)  
      *   10.34  

Surgical Care Affiliates, Inc. Management Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 on Form S-8 to Registration Statement on Form S-4, SEC File Number 333-216153, filed on March 27, 2017)  
      *   10.35  

Surgical Care Affiliates, Inc. Directors and Consultants Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 on Form S-8 to Registration Statement on Form S-4, SEC File Number 333-216153, filed on March 27, 2017)  
      *   10.36  

The Advisory Board Company Amended and Restated 2009 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to The Advisory Board Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 15, 2015)  
      *   10.37  

The Advisory Board Company 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to The Advisory Board Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 17, 2005)  
      *   10.38  

Employment Agreement, dated as of November 7, 2006, between UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Stephen J. Hemsley (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 8, 2006)  
      *   10.39  

Agreement for Supplemental Executive Retirement Pay, effective April 1, 2004, between UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Stephen J. Hemsley (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004)  
      *   10.40  

Amendment to Agreement for Supplemental Executive Retirement Pay, dated as of November 7, 2006, between UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Stephen J. Hemsley (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to Exhibit 10.1 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 8, 2006)  
      *   10.41  

Amendment to Employment Agreement and Agreement for Supplemental Executive Retirement Pay, effective as of December 31, 2008, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Stephen J. Hemsley (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008)  
      *   10.42  

Amendment to Agreement for Supplemental Executive Retirement Pay, dated as of June 7, 2016, between UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Stephen J. Hemsley (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2016)  
      *   10.43  

Letter Agreement, effective as of February 19, 2008, by and between UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Stephen J. Hemsley (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007)  

75 

     Table of Contents  

*   10.44  

Amendment to Employment Agreement, dated as of December 14, 2010, between UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Stephen J. Hemsley (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 15, 2010)  
      *   10.45  

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, effective as of December 1, 2014, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and David Wichmann (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2015)  
      *   10.46  

Amendment to Employment Agreement, effective as of August 16, 2017, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and David Wichmann (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2017)  
    
      *   10.47  

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, effective as of December 1, 2014, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Larry Renfro (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2015)  
      *   10.48  

Amendment to Employment Agreement, effective as of August 15, 2017, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Larry Renfro (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2017)  
    
      *   10.49  

Employment Agreement, effective as of January 1, 2013, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Marianne D. Short (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.34 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013)  
      *   10.50  

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of June 7, 2016, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and John Rex (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2016)  
      *   10.51  

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, effective as of March 24, 2015, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Steven H. Nelson  
      11.1 

Statement regarding computation of per share earnings (incorporated by reference to the information contained under the heading     Net Earnings Per Common Share     in Note 2 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8,  Financial Statements ) 
       12.1  

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges  
       21.1  

Subsidiaries of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated  
       23.1  

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
       24.1  

Power of Attorney  
       31.1  

Certifications pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  
       32.1  

Certifications pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  
      101 

The following materials from UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed on February 13, 2018, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language): (i) Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) Consolidated Statements of Operations, (iii) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, (iv) Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity, (v) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (vi) Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

_______________________________________________  _                   * 
      
    Denotes management contracts and compensation plans in which certain directors and named executive officers participate and which are being filed pursuant to Item 601(b)(10)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K. 
      ** 
      
    Pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K, copies of instruments defining the rights of certain holders of long-term debt are not filed. The Company will furnish copies thereof to the SEC upon request. 

(c) 
    Financial Statement Schedule  
     Schedule I - Condensed Financial Information of Registrant (Parent Company Only). 

76 

Table of Contents  

Schedule I  
  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Subsidiaries:  
  Opinion on the Financial Statement Schedule 
  We have audited the consolidated financial statements of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017, and the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, and have issued our reports thereon dated   February 13, 2018  ; such reports are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of the Company listed in the Index at Item 15. This financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s financial statement schedule based on our audits. In our opinion, the financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. 

77 

     Table of Contents  

Schedule I  
  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant  
  (Parent Company Only)  
  UnitedHealth Group  
  Condensed Balance Sheets  

See    Notes to the Condensed Financial Statements of Registrant     
  
   78 

     Table of Contents  

Schedule I  
  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant  
  (Parent Company Only)  
  UnitedHealth Group  
  Condensed Statements of Comprehensive Income  

See    Notes to the Condensed Financial Statements of Registrant     
  
   79 

     Table of Contents  

Schedule I  
  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant  
  (Parent Company Only)  
  UnitedHealth Group  
  Condensed Statements of Cash Flows  

See    Notes to the Condensed Financial Statements of Registrant     

80 

Table of Contents  

Schedule I  
  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant  
  (Parent Company Only)  
  UnitedHealth Group  
  Notes to Condensed Financial Statements  
  1.    Basis of Presentation  
  UnitedHealth Group s parent company financial information has been derived from its consolidated financial statements and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. The accounting policies for the registrant are the same as those described in    Note 2 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8,  Financial Statements.   
   
  2.    Subsidiary Transactions  
  Investment in Subsidiaries.   UnitedHealth Group s investment in subsidiaries is stated at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings of subsidiaries. 
  Dividends and Capital Distributions.   Cash dividends received from subsidiaries and included in Cash Flows from Operating Activities in the Condensed Statements of Cash Flows were   $3.4 billion  ,   $3.7 billion   and   $4.8 billion   in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Additionally,   $3.4 billion  ,   $2.1 billion   and   $4.4 billion   in cash were received as a return of capital to the parent company during 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 
   
  3.    Commercial Paper and Long-Term Debt  
  Discussion of commercial paper and long-term debt can be found in    Note 8 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8,  Financial Statements.     Long-term debt obligations of the parent company do not include other financing obligations at subsidiaries that totaled   $625 million   and   $200 million   at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  
  Maturities of commercial paper and long-term debt for the years ending December 31 are as follows: 

4.    Commitments and Contingencies 
  For a summary of commitments and contingencies, see    Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8,  Financial Statements.   

ITEM  16.        FORM 10-K SUMMARY 
  None. 

81 

Table of Contents  

SIGNATURES  
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  
  Dated:   February 13, 2018    
                    UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INCORPORATED 

By 
    /s/    DAVID S. WICHMANN 
        
    David S. Wichmann 
  Chief Executive Officer 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.     

*By 
    /s/    MARIANNE D. SHORT 
        
    Marianne D. Short, 
  As Attorney-in-Fact 

82 

<EX-10.51>
 2
 unhex105112312017.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.51

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.51 
    
  AMENDED AND RESTATED  
  EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 
    
  This Agreement is between Steven H. Nelson ( Executive ) and United HealthCare Services, Inc. ( UnitedHealth Group ), and is effective as of the last date executed below (the  Effective Date ).  This Agreement s purposes are to set forth certain terms of Executive s employment by UnitedHealth Group or one of its affiliates and to protect UnitedHealth Group s knowledge, expertise, customer relationships, and confidential information.  Unless the context otherwise requires,  UnitedHealth Group  includes all its affiliated entities. This Agreement amends and restates the Employment Agreement between Executive and UnitedHealth Group previously executed by Executive on January 22, 2008, and amended on January 26, 2009, respectively, and is effective as of the Effective Date. 
  1.      Employment and Duties  . 
           A. 
    Employment  .    UnitedHealth Group hereby employs Executive, and Executive accepts employment, under this Agreement s terms.   
              B. 
    Title and Duties  .  Executive will be employed as the Chief Executive Officer of Medicare   Retirement, UnitedHealthcare.  Executive will perform such duties, and exercise such supervision and control, as are commonly associated with Executive s position, as well as perform such other duties as are reasonably assigned to Executive.  Executive will devote substantially all of Executive s business time and energy to Executive s duties.  Executive will maintain operations in Executive s area of responsibility, and make every reasonable effort to ensure that the employees within that area of responsibility act, in compliance with applicable law and UnitedHealth Group s Code of Conduct, as amended from time to time.  Executive is subject to all of UnitedHealth Group s employment policies and procedures (except as specifically superseded by this Agreement). 
     2.       Compensation and Benefits  . 
           A.  
    Base Salary  .  Effective December 1, 2014, Executive s base salary will be $700,000, less applicable withholdings and deductions, payable according to UnitedHealth Group s regular payroll schedule.  Periodic adjustments to Executive s base salary may be made in UnitedHealth Group s sole discretion. 
              B. 
    Incentive Compensation  .  Executive will be eligible to participate in UnitedHealth Group s incentive compensation plans in UnitedHealth Group s discretion and in accordance with the plans  terms and conditions.  Executive s target bonus for the annual cash incentive will be 100% of annual base salary, subject to periodic adjustments in UnitedHealth Group s discretion.   
     
   1 

C. 
    Employee Benefits  .  Executive will be eligible to participate in UnitedHealth Group s employee welfare, retirement, and other benefit plans on the same basis as other similarly situated executives, in accordance with the terms of the plans.  Executive will be eligible for Paid Time Off in accordance with UnitedHealth Group s policies.  UnitedHealth Group reserves the right to amend or discontinue any plan or policy at any time in its sole discretion.  In addition to the Company s generally available benefits, UnitedHealth Group shall provide Executive, at UnitedHealth Group s expense during the term of Executive s employment, a $2 million face value term life insurance policy and a long term disability policy which covers 60% of base salary in the event of a qualifying long term disability, subject to the policy terms. 
     3.       Termination of Employment  . 
           A. 
    By Mutual Agreement  .  The parties may terminate Executive s employment at any time by mutual agreement.  
       
           B. 
    By UnitedHealth Group without Cause  .  UnitedHealth Group may terminate Executive s employment without Cause upon 90 days  prior written notice. 
       
           C. 
    By UnitedHealth Group with Cause  .  UnitedHealth Group may terminate Executive s employment at any time for Cause.   Cause  means Executive s (a) material failure to follow UnitedHealth Group s reasonable direction or to perform any duties reasonably required on material matters, (b) material violation of, or failure to act upon or report known or suspected violations of, UnitedHealth Group s Code of Conduct, as amended from time to time, (c) conviction of any felony, (d) commission of any criminal, fraudulent, or dishonest act in connection with Executive s employment, (e) material breach of this Agreement, or (f) conduct that is materially detrimental to UnitedHealth Group s interests.   UnitedHealth Group will, within 120 days of discovery of the conduct, give Executive written notice specifying the conduct constituting Cause in reasonable detail and Executive will have 60 days to remedy such conduct, if such conduct is reasonably capable of being remedied.  In any instance where the Company may have grounds for Cause, failure by the Company to provide written notice of the grounds for Cause within 120 days of discovery shall be a waiver of its right to assert the subject conduct as a basis for termination for Cause.  
       
           D. 
    By Executive without Good Reason  .  Executive may terminate Executive s employment at any time for any reason, including due to Executive s retirement. 

2 

E.       
    By Executive for Good Reason  .  Executive may terminate Executive s employment for Good Reason, as defined below.  Executive must give UnitedHealth Group written notice specifying in reasonable detail the circumstances constituting Good Reason, within 120 days of becoming aware of such circumstances, or such circumstances will not constitute Good Reason.  If the circumstances constituting Good Reason are reasonably capable of being remedied, UnitedHealth Group will have 60 days to remedy such circumstances.    Good Reason  will exist if UnitedHealth Group takes any of the following actions, without Executive s consent:  (a) reduces Executive s base salary or target bonus percentage other than in connection with a general reduction affecting a group of employees; (b) moves Executive s primary work location more than 50 miles; (c) makes changes that substantially diminish Executive s duties or responsibilities; or (d) changes the Executive s reporting relationship.  
          
           F. 
    Due to Executive s Death or Disability.    Executive s employment will terminate automatically if Executive dies, effective as of the date of Executive s death.  UnitedHealth Group may terminate Executive s employment due to Executive s disability that renders Executive incapable of performing the essential functions of Executive s job, with or without reasonable accommodation.  Executive will not be entitled to Severance Benefits under Section 4 in the event of termination due to Executive s death or disability. 
              4. 
    Severance Benefits  .   
              A. 
    Circumstances under Which Severance Benefits Payable  . Executive will be entitled to Severance Benefits only if Executive s employment is terminated by UnitedHealth Group without Cause or if Executive terminates employment for Good Reason.  Whether Executive has had a termination of employment will be determined in a manner consistent with the definition of  Separation from Service  under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and its accompanying regulations ( Section 409A ) and will be referred to herein as a  Termination.   For purposes of this Agreement, Executive will be considered to have experienced a Termination as of the date that the facts and circumstances indicate that it is reasonably anticipated that Executive will provide no further services after such date or that the level of bona fide services that Executive is expected to perform permanently decreases to no more than 20% of the average level of bona fide services that Executive performed over the immediately preceding 36-month period In consideration of the Severance Benefits in this Agreement, Executive waives any payments or benefits to which Executive otherwise might be or become entitled under any UnitedHealth Group severance plan or program. 
     
   3 

B. 
    Severance Benefits  .  Subject to Section 4.C, Executive shall be entitled to the following Severance Benefits if Executive experiences a Termination under the circumstances described in Section 4.A above: 
     (i) Two times Executive s annualized base salary as of Executive s Termination. 
  (ii) Any bonus or incentive compensation paid or payable to Executive for the two most recent calendar years (excluding equity-related awards, payments under any long-term or similar benefit plan, or any other special or one-time bonus or incentive compensation payments); provided, however, that if termination occurs within two years following the Effective Date, the amount payable under this paragraph will be two times Executive s target incentive.   
  (iii)   $  12,000 lump sum payment, minus applicable deductions, to offset costs of COBRA, which amount will be paid within 60 days following Termination.  
  (iv) Outplacement services consistent with those provided to similarly situated executives provided by an outplacement firm selected by UnitedHealth Group.  
  The Severance Benefits in Sections 4.B.(i)-(ii) will be paid out, minus applicable deductions, including deductions for tax withholding, in equal bi-weekly payments on the regular payroll cycle over the 24-month period following Executive s Termination.  Commencement of payments shall begin on the first payroll date that is at least 60 days after the date of Executive s Termination (the  Starting Date ), provided that Executive has satisfied the requirement in Section 4.C.  The first payment on the Starting Date shall include those payments that would have been previously paid if the payments of the severance compensation had begun on the first payroll date following the date of Executive s Termination. Executive s entitlement to the payments of the severance compensation described in Sections 4.B(i)-(ii) shall be treated as the entitlement to a series of separate payments for purposes of Section 409A.    
  If Executive is a  Specified Employee  (within the meaning of Section 409A and determined pursuant to procedures adopted by UnitedHealth Group) at the time of Executive s Termination and any amount that would be paid to Executive during the six-month period following Termination constitutes  Deferred Compensation  (within the meaning of Section 409A), such amount shall not be paid to Executive until the later of (i) six months after the date of Executive s Termination, and (ii) the payment date or commencement date specified in this Agreement for such payment(s).  On the first regular payroll date following the expiration of such six-month period (or if Executive dies during the six-month period, the first payroll date following the death), all payments that were delayed pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be paid to Executive in a single lump sum and thereafter all payments shall be made as if there had been no such delay.   All Severance Benefits described  
  
   4 

in Section 4.B shall be paid by, and no further severance compensation shall be paid or payable after, December 31 of the second calendar year following the year in which Executive s Termination occurs.  
           C. 
    Separation Agreement and Release Required  .  In order to receive any Severance Benefits under this Agreement, Executive must timely sign a separation agreement and release of claims in a form determined by UnitedHealth Group in its discretion. UnitedHealth Group shall provide to Executive a form of separation agreement and release of claims no later than three (3) days following Executive s date of Termination.  If Executive does not timely execute and deliver to UnitedHealth Group such separation agreement and release, or if Executive does so, but then revokes it if permitted by and within the time required by applicable law, UnitedHealth Group will have no obligation to pay severance compensation to Executive. 
              5. 
    Property Rights, Confidentiality, Non-Disparagement, and Restrictive Covenants  . 
              A. 
    UnitedHealth Group s Property  . 
       
           i. 
    Assignment of Property Rights  .  Executive must promptly disclose in writing to UnitedHealth Group all inventions, discoveries, processes, procedures, methods and works of authorship, whether or not patentable or copyrightable, that Executive alone or jointly conceives, makes, discovers, writes or creates, during working hours or on Executive s own time, during this Agreement s term (the  Works ).  Executive hereby assigns to UnitedHealth Group all Executive s rights, including copyrights and patent rights, to all Works.  Executive must assist UnitedHealth Group as it reasonably requires to perfect, protect, and use its rights to the Works.  This provision does not apply to any Work for which no UnitedHealth Group equipment, supplies, facility or trade secret information was used and: (1) which does not relate directly to UnitedHealth Group s business or actual or demonstrably anticipated research or development, or (2) which does not result from any work performed for UnitedHealth Group. 
       
           ii. 
    No Removal of Property  . Executive may not remove from UnitedHealth Group s premises any UnitedHealth Group records, documents, data or other property, in either original or duplicate form, except as necessary in the ordinary course of UnitedHealth Group s business. 
       
           iii. 
    Return of Property  .  Executive must immediately deliver to UnitedHealth Group, upon termination of employment, or at any other time at UnitedHealth Group s request, all UnitedHealth Group property, including records,  
     
   5 

documents, data, and equipment, and all copies of any such property, including any records or data Executive prepared during employment. 
           B. 
    Confidential Information  .  Executive will be given access to and provided with sensitive, confidential, proprietary and trade secret information ( Confidential Information ) in the course of Executive s employment.  Examples of Confidential Information include:  inventions; new product or marketing plans; business strategies and plans; merger and acquisition targets; financial and pricing information; computer programs, source codes, models and databases; analytical models; customer lists and information; and supplier and vendor lists and other information which is not generally available to the public.  Executive agrees not to disclose or use     Confidential Information, either during or after Executive s employment with UnitedHealth Group,     except as necessary to perform Executive s UnitedHealth Group duties or as UnitedHealth Group may consent in writing.    
              C. 
    Non-Disparagement  .  Executive agrees not to criticize, make any negative comments about or otherwise disparage UnitedHealth Group or those associated with it, whether orally, in writing or otherwise, directly or by implication, to any person or entity, including UnitedHealth Group customers or agents.   
              D. 
    Restrictive Covenants  .  Executive agrees to the restrictive covenants in this Section in consideration of Executive s employment and UnitedHealth Group s promises in this Agreement, including providing Executive access to Confidential Information.  The restrictive covenants in this Section apply during Executive s employment and for 24 months following termination of employment for any reason.  Executive agrees that he/she will not, without UnitedHealth Group's prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for Executive or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity, engage in any of the following activities:     
              i. 
    Non-Solicitation.    Executive will not: 
              (a) 
    Solicit or conduct business with any business competitive with UnitedHealth Group from any person or entity: (1) who was a UnitedHealth Group provider or customer within the 12 months before Executive s employment termination and with whom Executive had contact regarding UnitedHealth Group s activity, products or services, or for whom Executive provided services or supervised employees who provided those services, or about whom Executive learned Confidential Information during employment related to UnitedHealth Group s provision of products and services to such person or entity, or (2) was a prospective provider or customer UnitedHealth Group solicited within the 12 months before  
     
   6 

Executive s employment termination and with whom Executive had contact for the purposes of soliciting the person or entity to become a provider or customer of UnitedHealth Group, or supervised employees who had those contacts, or about whom Executive learned Confidential Information during employment related to UnitedHealth Group s provision of products and services to such person or entity; 
           (b) 
    Raid, hire, employ, recruit or solicit any UnitedHealth Group employee or consultant who possesses Confidential Information of UnitedHealth Group to leave UnitedHealth Group to join a competitor; 
              (c) 
    Induce or influence any UnitedHealth Group employee, consultant, or provider who possesses Confidential Information of UnitedHealth Group to terminate his, her or its employment or other relationship with UnitedHealth Group; or 
              (d) 
    Assist anyone in any of the activities listed above. 
              ii. 
    Non-Competition  .      Executive will not: 
              (a) 
    Engage in or participate in any activity that competes, directly or indirectly, with any UnitedHealth Group activity, product or service that Executive engaged in, participated in, or had Confidential Information about during Executive s last 36 months of employment with UnitedHealth Group; or 
              (b) 
    Assist anyone in any of the activities listed above. 
              iii. 
    Because UnitedHealth Group s business competes on a nationwide basis, the Executive s obligations under this  Restrictive Covenants  section shall apply on a nationwide basis anywhere in the United States.  
              iv. 
    To the extent Executive and UnitedHealth Group agree at any time to enter into separate agreements containing restrictive covenants with different or inconsistent terms than those contained herein, Executive and UnitedHealth Group acknowledge and agree that such different or inconsistent terms shall not in any way affect or have relevance to the Restrictive Covenants contained herein. 
     Executive agrees that the provisions of this Section 5 are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of UnitedHealth Group. 
  
   7 

E. 
    Cooperation and Indemnification  .  Executive agrees to cooperate fully (i) with UnitedHealth Group in the investigation, prosecution or defense of any potential claims or concerns regarding UnitedHealth Group s business about which Executive has relevant knowledge, including by providing truthful information and testimony as reasonably requested by UnitedHealth Group, and (ii) with all government authorities on matters pertaining to any investigation, litigation or administrative proceeding concerning UnitedHealth Group.  UnitedHealth Group will reimburse Executive for any reasonable travel and out-of-pocket expenses incurred by Executive in providing such cooperation.  UnitedHealth Group will indemnify Executive, in accordance with the Minnesota Business Corporation Act, for all claims and other covered matters arising in connection with Executive s employment.  
              F.  
    Injunctive Relief  .  Executive agrees that (a) legal remedies (money damages) for any breach of Section 5 will be inadequate, (b) UnitedHealth Group will suffer immediate and irreparable harm from any such breach, and (c) UnitedHealth Group will be entitled to injunctive relief from a court in addition to any legal remedies UnitedHealth Group may seek in arbitration.  If an arbitrator or court determines that Executive has breached any provision of Section 5, Executive agrees to pay to UnitedHealth Group its reasonable costs and attorney s fees incurred in enforcing that provision. 
              6. 
    Miscellaneous  . 
              A. 
    Tax Withholding  .  All compensation payable under this Agreement will be subject to applicable tax withholding and other required or authorized deductions. 
              B. 
    Assignment  .  Executive may not assign this Agreement.  UnitedHealth Group may assign this Agreement.  Any successor to UnitedHealth Group will be deemed to be UnitedHealth Group under this Agreement. 
              C. 
    Entire Agreement; Amendment  .  This Agreement contains the parties  entire agreement regarding its subject matter and may only be amended in a writing signed by the parties.  This Agreement supersedes any and all prior oral or written employment agreements (including letters and memoranda) between Executive and UnitedHealth Group or its predecessors.  This Agreement does not supersede the terms of any stock option, restricted stock, or stock appreciation rights plan or award. 
              D. 
    Choice of Law  .   Minnesota law governs this Agreement. 
              E. 
    Waivers  .  No party s failure to exercise, or delay in exercising, any right or remedy under this Agreement will be a waiver of such right or remedy, nor will any single  
     
   8 

or partial exercise of any right or remedy preclude any other or further exercise of such right or remedy. 
           F. 
    Narrowed Enforcement and Severability  .  If a court or arbitrator decides that any provision of this Agreement is invalid or overbroad, the parties agree that the court or arbitrator should narrow such provision so that it is enforceable or, if narrowing is not possible or permissible, such provision should be considered severed and the other provisions of this Agreement should be unaffected. 
       
           G. 
    Dispute Resolution and Remedies  .  Except for injunctive relief under Section 5.F, any dispute between the parties relating to this Agreement or to Executive s employment will be resolved by binding arbitration under UnitedHealth Group s Employment Arbitration Policy, as it may be amended from time to time.  The arbitrator(s) may not vary this Agreement s terms and must apply applicable law.  
              H. 
    Payment of Deferred Compensation - Section 409A.    To the extent applicable, it is intended that the compensation arrangements under this Agreement be in full compliance with Section 409A.  This Agreement shall be construed in a manner to give effect to such intention.  In no event whatsoever shall UnitedHealth Group be liable for any tax, interest or penalties that may be imposed on Executive under Section 409A.  UnitedHealth Group shall have no obligation to indemnify or otherwise hold Executive harmless from any such taxes, interest or penalties, or from liability for any damages related thereto.   
              I. 
    Electronic Transmission/Counterparts  .  The executed version of this Agreement may be delivered by facsimile or email, and upon receipt, such transmission shall be deemed delivery of an original.  This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, and all of which together will constitute one document. 
       
                   United HealthCare Services, Inc. 
      
    Executive 

By:   /s/ D. Ellen Wilson 
      
    By:   /s/ Steven H. Nelson 

Its: Executive Vice President, Human Capital 

Date: March 24, 2015 
      
    Date: March 23, 2015 

9 

</EX-10.51>

<EX-12.1>
 3
 unhex12112312017.htm
 EXHIBIT 12.1

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 12.1 
  COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES  

The ratio of earnings to fixed charges is computed by dividing total earnings available for fixed charges by the fixed charges. For purposes of computing this ratio, fixed charges consist of interest expense plus the interest factor in rental expense.  

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 4
 unhex21112312017.htm
 EXHIBIT 21.1

Exhibit 

Exhibit 21.1 
  Subsidiaries of the Company 
    
  Listed below are subsidiaries of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated as of December 31, 2017. Those subsidiaries not listed would not, in the aggregate, constitute a  significant subsidiary  of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, as that term is defined in Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X.  
                   Name of Entity 
    State of Jurisdiction or Domicile 
    Doing Business As 
      1070715 B.C. Unlimited Liability Company 
    Canada 
      
      310 Canyon Medical, LLC 
    CA 
      
      5995 Minnetonka, LLC 
    DE 
      
      ABCO India Private Limited 
    India 
      
      ABCO International Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      ACN Group IPA of New York, Inc. 
    NY 
      
      ACN Group of California, Inc. 
    CA 
    OptumHealth Physical Health of California 
      Advanced Surgical Hospital, LLC 
    PA  
      
      Advocate Condell Ambulatory Surgery Center, LLC 
    IL 
      
      Advocate Sherman Ambulatory Surgery Center, LLC 
    IL 
      
      Advocate-SCA Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Advocate-SCA Partners, LLC 
    DE 
      
      AHN Accountable Care Organization, LLC 
    IN 
      
      AHN Central Services, LLC 
    IN 
      
      AHN Target Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Alaska Surgery Center, Inc. 
    AK 
      
      All Savers Insurance Company 
    IN 
      
      All Savers Life Insurance Company of California 
    CA 
      
      Alliance Surgical Center, LLC 
    FL 
      
      Ambient Healthcare, Inc. 
    FL 
      
      Ambient Holdings, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      American Health Network of Indiana Care Organization, LLC 
    IN 
      
      American Health Network of Indiana II, LLC 
    IN 
    American Health Network of Indiana American Health Network of Indiana, Inc. Healthcare Network 
      American Health Network of Indiana, LLC 
    IN 
    EXPRESS CARE 
      American Health Network of Ohio Care Organization, LLC 
    OH 
      
      American Health Network of Ohio II, LLC 
    OH 
      
      American Health Network of Ohio, LLC 
    OH 
      
      AmeriChoice Corporation 
    DE 
      
      AmeriChoice Health Services, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      AmeriChoice of New Jersey, Inc. 
    NJ 
      
      Amico Sa de Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      
      Amil Assist ncia M dica Internacional S.A. 
    Brazil 
      
      Amil Clinical Research Participa  es Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      
      AMIL International 
    Luxembourg 
      
      Antelope Valley Surgery Center, L.P. 
    CA 
      
      AppleCare Medical Management, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Aquitania Chilean Holding SpA 
    Chile 

Aquitania Holding SpA 
    Chile 
      
      Arise Healthcare System, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Arizona Physicians IPA, Inc. 
    AZ 
    UnitedHealthcare Arizona Physicians IPA UnitedHealthcare Community Plan 
      ASC Connecticut Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      ASC Holdings of New Jersey, LLC 
    NJ 
      
      ASC Network, LLC 
    DE 
      
      ASI Global, LLC 
    TX 
      
      AssuranceRx, LLC 
    AL 
      
      Athens ASC Holdings, LLC 
    GA 
      
      Audax Health Solutions, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Aveta Arizona, Inc. 
    AZ 
      
      Aveta Health Solutions Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Aveta Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Aveta Kansas City, Inc. 
    KS 
      
      Aveta Tennessee, Inc 
    DE 
      
      AxelaCare Intermediate Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      AxelaCare, LLC 
    DE 
      
      B.R.A.S.S. Partnership in Commendam 
    LA 
      
      Bakersfield Physicians Plaza Surgical Center, L.P. 
    TN 
      
      Bakersfield-SC, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Beach Surgical Holdings III, LLC 
    CA 
      
      Behavioral Healthcare Options, Inc. 
    NV 
      
      Birmingham Outpatient Surgical Center, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Blackstone Valley Surgicare Acquisition, L.P. 
    RI 
      
      Blackstone Valley Surgicare GP, LLC 
    RI 
      
      Blue Ridge GP, LLC 
    NC 
      
      Bordeaux (Barbados) Holdings I, SRL 
    Barbados 
      
      Bordeaux (Barbados) Holdings II, SRL 
    Barbados 
      
      Bordeaux (Barbados) Holdings III, SRL 
    Barbados 
      
      Bordeaux Holding SpA 
    Chile 
      
      Bordeaux International Holdings, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Bordeaux UK Holdings I Limited 
    UK 
      
      Bordeaux UK Holdings II Limited 
    UK 
      
      Bordeaux UK Holdings III Limited 
    UK 
      
      Bosque Medical Center Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      
      Brevard Specialty Surgery Center, LLC 
    FL 
      
      BriovaRx Infusion Services 100, Inc. 
    NY 
    Advanced Care of New Jersey Inc. 
      BriovaRx Infusion Services 101, Inc. 
    NY 
      
      BriovaRx Infusion Services 102, LLC 
    DE 
      
      BriovaRx Infusion Services 103, LLC 
    DE 
    AxelaCare Equinox Healthcare 
      BriovaRx Infusion Services 200, Inc. 
    SC 
      
      BriovaRx Infusion Services 201, Inc. 
    FL 
      
      BriovaRx Infusion Services 202, Inc. 
    FL 
      
      BriovaRx Infusion Services 203, Inc. 
    FL 
      
      BriovaRx Infusion Services 204, Inc. 
    FL 

BriovaRx Infusion Services 205, Inc. 
    FL 
      
      BriovaRx Infusion Services 206, Inc. 
    AL 
      
      BriovaRx Infusion Services 207, Inc. 
    AL 
      
      BriovaRx Infusion Services 208, Inc. 
    NC 
    AxelaCare 
      BriovaRx Infusion Services 209, Inc. 
    GA 
    AxelaCare 
      BriovaRx Infusion Services 301, LP 
    OK 
    AxelaCare 
      BriovaRx Infusion Services 302, LLC 
    NE 
    AxelaCare 
      BriovaRx Infusion Services 305, LLC 
    DE 
      
      BriovaRx Infusion Services 308, LLC 
    AZ 
    AxelaCare 
      BriovaRx Infusion Services 401, LLC 
    CA 
      
      BriovaRx Infusion Services 402, LLC 
    CA 
      
      BriovaRx Infusion Services 403, LLC 
    CA 
      
      BriovaRx Infusion Services 404, LLC 
    OR 
      
      BriovaRx Infusion Services, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      BriovaRx of California, Inc. 
    CA 
    BriovaRx MRP BriovaRx of Los Angeles Mission Road Pharmacy MRP 
      BriovaRx of Florida, Inc. 
    DE 
    BriovaRx of Florida 
      BriovaRx of Georgia, LLC 
    AL 
      
      BriovaRx of Indiana, LLC 
    IN 
    BriovaRx 
      BriovaRx of Louisiana, L.L.C. 
    LA 
      
      BriovaRx of Maine, Inc. 
    ME 
    BriovaRx 
      BriovaRx of Massachusetts, LLC 
    MA 
    BriovaRx 
      BriovaRx of Nevada, LLC 
    NV 
    BriovaRx BriovaRx of Nevada 
      BriovaRx of New York, Inc. 
    NY 
    BriovaRx of New York 
      BriovaRx of Texas, Inc. 
    TX 
    BriovaRx of Texas Catamaran Home Delivery 
      BriovaRx, LLC 
    AL 
    BriovaRx 
      California MedTrans Network IPA LLC 
    CA 
      
      California MedTrans Network MSO LLC 
    CA 
      
      Camp Hill-SCA Centers, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Cardio Management, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Care Improvement Plus Group Management, LLC 
    MD 
      
      Care Improvement Plus of Texas Insurance Company 
    TX 
    Care Improvement Plan 
      Care Improvement Plus South Central Insurance Company 
    AR 
      
      Care Improvement Plus Wisconsin Insurance Company 
    WI 
      
      Casa de Sa de Santa Therezinha S.A. 
    Brazil 
      
      Catalyst360, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Catamaran Health Solutions, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Catamaran Holdings I, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Catamaran IPA III, Inc. 
    NY 
      
      Catamaran of Pennsylvania, LLC 
    DE 
    FutureScripts Secure 
      Catamaran PBM of Puerto Rico, LLC 
    NV 
      
      Catamaran PD of Pennsylvania, LLC 
    PA 
      
      Catamaran S. .r.l. 
    Luxembourg 

Catamaran Senior Services, LLC 
    AL 
    SeniorScript 
      Cedar Park Surgery Center, LLC 
    TX 
      
      Cemed Care - Empresa de Atendimento Cl nico Geral Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      
      Central Indiana Care Organization, LLC 
    IN 
      
      Central Ohio Care Organization, LLC 
    OH 
      
      CentrifyHealth, LLC 
    DE 
      
      CentriHealth Corporation 
    Ontario 
      
      CentriHealth UK Limited 
    UK 
      
      Centro M dico PJ Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      
      Channel Islands Surgicenter Properties, LLC 
    CA 
      
      Charlotte-SC, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Childrens Surgery Center, LLC 
    FL 
      
      ChinaGate (Hong Kong) Limited 
    Hong Kong 
    OptumInsight 
      Citrus Regional Surgery Center, L.P. 
    TN 
      
      Cl nica M dico Cir rgica de Santa Tecla, S.A. 
    Portugal 
      
      Clinica Oftalmologica Danilo de Castro Sociedade Simples 
    Brazil 
      
      CLISA   Cl nica de Santo Ant nio, S.A. 
    Portugal 
      
      CMO   Centro M dico de Oftalmologia S/S Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      
      CMS   Central de Manipula  o e Servi os Farmac uticos S.A. 
    Brazil 
      
      CNIC Health Solutions, Inc. 
    CO 
    Rocky Mountain Health Administrators, Inc. Specialty Claims Solutions 
      Coachella Valley Physicians of PrimeCare, Inc. 
    CA 
      
      Coalition for Advanced Pharmacy Services, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      COI   Cl nicas Oncol gicas Integradas S.A. 
    Brazil 
      
      COI Participa  es S.A. 
    Brazil 
      
      Collaborative Care Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Collaborative Care Services, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Collaborative Care Solutions, LLC 
    DE 
    NextDoor Health 
      Collaborative Realty, LLC 
    NY 
      
      Colorado Springs Surgery Center, Ltd. 
    CO 
      
      Comfort Care Transportation, LLC 
    TX 
      
      Connecticut Surgery Center, Limited Partnership 
    CT 
      
      Connecticut Surgery Properties, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Connecticut Surgical Center, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Consumer Wellness Solutions, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Cypress Care, Inc. 
    DE 
    Optum Workers Compensation Services of Georgia 
      Day-Op Surgery Consulting Company, LLC 
    DE 
      
      DBP Services of New York IPA, Inc. 
    NY 
      
      Dental Benefit Providers of California, Inc. 
    CA 
    OptumHealth Dental of California 
      Dental Benefit Providers of Illinois, Inc. 
    IL 
      
      Dental Benefit Providers, Inc. 
    DE 
    DBP Services DBP Services Inc. 
      Diagnostic and Interventional Surgical Center, LLC 
    CA 
      
      Dilab Medicina Nuclear Ltda. 
    Brazil 

DISC Surgery Center at Newport Beach, LLC 
    CA 
      
      Distance Learning Network, Inc. 
    DE 
    i3CME OptumHealth Education 
      Dublin Surgery Center, LLC 
    OH 
      
      Duncan Printing Services, LLC 
    SC 
      
      DWIC of Tampa Bay, Inc. 
    FL 
    Doctor's Walk-In Clinics MedExpress MedExpress Urgent Care - Brandon MedExpress Urgent Care - Cape Coral, SW Pine Island Rd MedExpress Urgent Care - Carrollwood MedExpress Urgent Care - Clearwater MedExpress Urgent Care - Deland, N Woodland Blvd MedExpress Urgent Care - Estero, S Tamiami Trl MedExpress Urgent Care - Fort Meyers, S Cleveland Ave MedExpress Urgent Care - Golden Gate, Collier Blvd. MedExpress Urgent Care - Hudson, State Road 52 MedExpress Urgent Care - Jacksonville, Atlantic Blvd. MedExpress Urgent Care - Jacksonville, Merrill Rd MedExpress Urgent Care - Largo MedExpress Urgent Care - Lehigh Acres, Homestead Rd N MedExpress Urgent Care - Lutz MedExpress Urgent Care - New Tampa MedExpress Urgent Care - North Port, Tuscola Blvd MedExpress Urgent Care - Northside MedExpress Urgent Care - Palm Beach Gardens MedExpress Urgent Care - Port Charlotte, Tamiami Trl MedExpress Urgent Care - Seffner MedExpress Urgent Care - West Tampa 
      E Street Endoscopy, LLC 
    FL 
      
      East Brunswick Surgery Center, LLC 
    NJ 
      
      eCode Solutions, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Electronic Network Systems, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      ELG FZE 
    Dubai 
      
      Elual Participa  es S.A. 
    Brazil 
      
      Empire Physician Management Company, LLC 
    CA 
      
      Endoscopy Center Affiliates, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      EP Campus I, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Esho   Empresa de Servi os Hospitalares S.A. 
    Brazil 
      
      Etho   Empresa de Tecnologia Hospitalar Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      
      Evercare Collaborative Solutions, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Excellion Servi os Biom dicos Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      
      Executive Health Resources, Inc. 
    PA 
      
      Executive Surgery Center, LLC 
    TX 
      
      Family Health Care Services 
    NV 
      
      Family Home Hospice, Inc. 
    NV 
    Family Home Hospice and Palliative Care 
      First Rx Specialty and Mail Services, LLC 
    DE 

Florence Surgery Center, L.P. 
    AL 
      
      Florida MedTrans Network LLC 
    FL 
      
      Florida MedTrans Network MSO LLC 
    FL 
      
      FMG Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      For Health of Arizona, Inc. 
    AZ 
    Care Level Management of Arizona Medical Services Geriatrix of Arizona INSPIRIS of Arizona 
      For Health, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Fortify Technologies Asia, LLC 
    Philippines 
      
      Fortify Technologies, LLC 
    MN 
      
      Franklin Surgical Center, LLC 
    NJ 
      
      Frontier Medex Tanzania Limited 
    Tanzania 
      
      FrontierMEDEX (RMS), Inc. 
    DE 
      
      FrontierMEDEX Government Services, LLC 
    DE 
      
      FrontierMEDEX Kenya Limited 
    Kenya 
      
      FrontierMEDEX US, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      FrontierMEDEX, Inc. 
    MN 
    UnitedHealthcare Global 
      Gadsden Surgery Center, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Gadsden Surgery Center, Ltd. 
    AL 
      
      Gainesville Surgery Center, L.P. 
    TN 
      
      gethealthinsurance.com Agency Inc. 
    IN 
    UnitedOne Insurance Agency 
      Gladiolus Surgery Center, L.L.C. 
    FL 
      
      Glenwood-SC, Inc. 
    TN 
      
      Golden Outlook, Inc. 
    CA 
    Golden Outlook Golden Outlook Insurance Services 
      Golden Rule Financial Corporation 
    DE 
      
      Golden Rule Insurance Company 
    IN 
    UnitedHealthOne 
      Golden Triangle Surgicenter, L.P. 
    CA 
      
      Granite Peak Technologies, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Grove Place Surgery Center, L.L.C. 
    FL 
      
      H W Indemnity (SPC), Ltd. 
    Cayman 
      
      H.I. Investments Holding Company, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Harken Health Insurance Company 
    WI 
      
      Hartford Surgery Center, LLC 
    CT 
      
      Health Business Systems, Inc. 
    PA 
      
      Health Inventures Employment Solutions, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Health Inventures, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Health Net Services (Bermuda) Ltd. 
    Bermuda 
      
      Health Plan of Nevada, Inc. 
    NV 
      
      HealthAllies, Inc. 
    DE 
    OptumHealth Allies 
      Healthcare Solutions, Inc. 
    DE 
    Optum Healthcare Solutions of Georgia 
      HealthFirst IPA, Inc. 
    CO 
      
      Highlands Ranch Healthcare, LLC 
    CO 
      
      Hospice Inspiris Holdings, Inc. 
    TN 
      
      Hospitais Associados de Pernambuco Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      
      Hospital Alvorada de Taguatinga Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      
      Hospital Ana Costa S.A. 
    Brazil 

Hospital de Cl nicas de Jacarepagu  Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      
      Hospital Samaritano de S o Paulo Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      
      Hospital Santa Helena S.A. 
    Brazil 
      
      Humedica, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Hygeia Corporation 
    DE 
      
      Hygeia Corporation 
    Canada 
      
      Imed Star   Servi os de Desempenho Organizacional Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      
      Impel Consulting Experts, L.L.C. 
    TX 
      
      Impel Management Services, L.L.C. 
    TX 
    Impel Consulting Experts 
      Indian River Surgery Center, Ltd. 
    FL 
      
      Indian River Surgery Properties, LLC. 
    FL 
      
      Indiana Care Organization, LLC 
    IN 
      
      Ingram   Associates, LLC 
    TN 
    Ingram   Associates, LLC (Tennessee) Ingram   Associates,(Tennessee) LLC Ingram BPO Services, LLC 
      Inland Surgery Center, L.P. 
    CA 
      
      inPharmative, Inc. 
    NV 
      
      INSPIRIS of New York IPA, Inc. 
    NY 
    Care Level Management of New York INSPIRIS of New York IPA OptumCare Network IPA 
      INSPIRIS of New York Management, Inc. 
    NY 
    INSPIRIS of New York Management 
      INSPIRIS of Texas Physician Group 
    TX 
    Optum Clinic Optum Clinic + Medical Spa Optum Clinic + Urgent Care 
      Inspiris Services Company 
    TN 
    Care Level Management of Florida Inspiris of Florida 
      Inspiris, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      IRX Financing I LLC 
    DE 
      
      Lifeprint Accountable Care Organization, LLC 
    DE 
    Optum Accountable Care, Arizona 
      Lifeprint East, Inc. 
    DE 
    OptumCare Network of Connecticut 
      LifePrint Health, Inc. 
    DE 
    Optum Medical Network OptumCare Medical Network Optumcare Network of Indiana 
      Logistics Health, Inc. 
    WI 
      
      Lotten-Eyes Oftalmologia Clinica e Cirurgica Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      
      Louisville S.C., Ltd. 
    KY 
      
      Louisville-SC Properties, Inc. 
    KY 
      
      Loyola Ambulatory Surgery Center at Oakbrook, Inc. 
    IL 
      
      Lus adas - Parcerias Cascais, S.A. 
    Portugal 
      
      Lus adas A.C.E. 
    Portugal 
      
      Lus adas, S.A. 
    Portugal 
      
      Lus adas, SGPS, S.A. 
    Portugal 
      
      MAMSI Insurance Resources, LLC 
    MD 
      
      MAMSI Life and Health Insurance Company 
    MD 
      
      Managed Physical Network, Inc. 
    NY 
      
      March Holdings, Inc. 
    CA 
      
      March Vision Care, Inc. 
    CA 
      
      Marin Surgery Holdings, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Maryland Ambulatory Centers 
    MD 

Maryland-SCA Centers, LLC 
    DE 
      
      McKenzie Surgery Center, L.P. 
    TN 
      
      MD Ops, Inc. 
    CA 
    CHIEF Community Health Information Exchange Foundation 
      MD-Individual Practice Association, Inc. 
    MD 
    M.D. IPA M.D. IPA HEALTH M.D. IPA PREFERRED 
      Medalliance Net Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      
      MEDEX Insurance Services, Inc. 
    MD 
    MEDEX Insurance Agency MGG Insurance Services 
      MedExpress Development, LLC 
    FL 
      
      MedExpress Urgent Care Alabama, LLC 
    AL 
      
      MedExpress Urgent Care Maine, Inc. 
    ME 
      
      MedExpress Urgent Care New Hampshire, Inc. 
    NH 
      
      MedExpress Urgent Care of Boynton Beach, LLC 
    FL 
    MedExpress Urgent Care - Boca Raton MedExpress Urgent Care - Coral Springs  MedExpress Urgent Care - Palm Beach Gardens MedExpress Urgent Care - Royal Palm Beach 
      MedExpress Urgent Care, Inc. - Ohio 
    OH 
      
      Medica Health Plans of Florida, Inc. 
    FL 
    EZ Care 
      Medica HealthCare Plans, Inc. 
    FL 
      
      Medical Clinic of North Texas PLLC 
    TX 
    USMD Physician Services 
      Medical Surgical Centers of America, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Medical Transportation Services, LLC 
    FL 
    MTS 
      MedSynergies, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Melbourne Surgery Center, LLC 
    GA 
      
      Memphis-SC, LLC 
    TN 
      
      Memphis-SP, LLC 
    TN 
      
      Metro I Stone Management, Ltd. 
    TX 
      
      Metropolitan Medical Partners, LLC 
    MD 
      
      Metropolitan Medical Transportation IPA, LLC 
    NY 
      
      MHC Real Estate Holdings, LLC 
    CA 
      
      Mississippi Surgery Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Mississippi Surgical Center Limited Partnership 
    MS 
      
      Modern Medical, Inc. 
    OH 
    MMI of Ohio, Inc. Modern Medical of Ohio, Inc. Optum Workers Compensation Medical Services Optum Workers Compensation Services 
      Monarch Management Services, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      MSLA Management LLC 
    DE 
      
      Mt. Pleasant Surgery Center, L.P. 
    TN 
      
      Multiangio Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      
      Muskogee Surgical Investors, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Mustang Razorback Holdings, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      My Wellness Solutions, LLC 
    DE 
      
      NAMM Holdings, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Nashville-SCA Surgery Centers, Inc. 
    TN 

National MedTrans, LLC 
    NY 
      
      National Pacific Dental, Inc. 
    TX 
      
      National Surgery Centers, LLC 
    DE 
      
      National Surgery Centers-Santa Monica, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Neighborhood Health Partnership, Inc. 
    FL 
    Neighborhood Health Neighborhood Health Partnership NHP 
      Netwerkes, LLC 
    TN 
      
      Nevada Pacific Dental 
    NV 
      
      New West Physicians, Inc. 
    CO 
      
      Newton Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      North American Medical Management - Illinois, Inc. 
    IL 
      
      North American Medical Management California, Inc. 
    TN 
      
      Northern Nevada Health Network, Inc. 
    NV 
      
      Northern Rockies Surgery Center, L.P. 
    TN 
      
      Northern Rockies Surgicenter, Inc. 
    MT 
      
      Northwest Surgicare, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Northwest Surgicare, Ltd. 
    IL 
      
      NSC Fayetteville, LLC 
    DE 
      
      NSC Greensboro, LLC 
    DE 
      
      NSC Lancaster, LLC 
    DE 
      
      NSC Seattle, Inc. 
    WA 
      
      NSC Upland, LLC 
    DE 
      
      NYSCA, LLC 
    NY 
      
      OneNet PPO, LLC 
    MD 
      
      Optimum Choice, Inc. 
    MD 
    OCI OCI HEALTH PLAN OCI PREFERRED OPTIMUM CHOICE OPTIMUM CHOICE HEALTH PLAN OPTIMUM CHOICE PREFERRED 
      Optum Bank, Inc. 
    UT 
    Exante Bank, Inc. OptumHealth Bank, Inc. 
      Optum Biometrics, Inc. 
    IL 
    Wellness, Inc. Wellness, Inc., which will do business in California as Illinois Wellness, Inc. 
      Optum Clinics Holdings, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Optum Clinics Intermediate Holdings, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Optum Digital Health Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Optum Finance (Ireland) Unlimited Company 
    Ireland 
      
      Optum Global Solutions (India) Private Limited 
    India 
      
      Optum Global Solutions (Philippines), Inc. 
    Philippines 
      
      Optum Global Solutions International B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      
      Optum Government Solutions, Inc. 
    DE 
    Integris Integris Inc. 
      Optum Health   Technology (Australia) Pty Ltd 
    Australia 
    PPC Worldwide Holdings Pty ltd 
      Optum Health   Technology (India) Private Limited 
    India 
      
      Optum Health   Technology (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      
      Optum Health   Technology (UK) Limited 
    UK 
      
      Optum Health   Technology (US), LLC 
    MO 

Optum Health   Technology Holdings (US), Inc. 
    MO 
      
      Optum Health   Technology Servi os do Brasil Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      
      Optum Health and Technology FZ-LLC 
    UAE 
      
      Optum Health Services (Canada) Ltd. 
    Canada 
    Interlock Employee and Family Assistance 
      Optum Health Solutions (Australia) Pty Ltd 
    Australia 
      
      Optum Health Solutions (UK) Limited 
    UK 
      
      Optum Healthcare of Illinois, Inc. 
    GA 
      
      Optum Hospice Pharmacy Services, LLC 
    DE 
    HospiScript Services Optum Hospice Pharmacy Services Optum Hospice Pharmacy Services Administrator 
      Optum Insurance of Ohio, Inc. 
    OH 
      
      Optum Labs Dimensions, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Optum Labs International (UK) Limited 
    UK 
      
      Optum Labs, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Optum Life Sciences (Canada) Inc. 
    Canada 
      
      Optum Management Consulting (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      
      Optum Nevada Accountable Care Organization LLC 
    DE 
      
      Optum of New York, Inc. 
    NY 
      
      Optum Operations (Ireland) Limited 
    Ireland 
      
      Optum Palliative and Hospice Care of Pennsylvania, Inc. 
    TN 
    Evercare Hospice   Palliative Care 
      Optum Palliative and Hospice Care of Texas, Inc. 
    TN 
    Evercare Hospice   Palliative Care 
      Optum Palliative and Hospice Care, Inc. 
    DE 
    Evercare Hospice Evercare Hospice and Palliative Care Evercare Hospice and Palliative Care of Colorado Springs Evercare Hospice and Palliative Care of Denver Evercare Palliative Care Evercare Palliative Services Evercare Palliative Services of Atlanta Evercare Palliative Services of Cincinnati Evercare Palliative Services of Cleveland Evercare Palliative Services of Colorado Springs Evercare Palliative Services of Denver Evercare Palliative Services of Dover Evercare Palliative Services of Eugene Evercare Palliative Services of Houston Evercare Palliative Services of Phoenix Evercare Palliative Services of Portland Evercare Palliative Services of Salem Evercare Palliative Services of Tucson Evercare Palliative Services of Vienna Hospice Care Suites 
      Optum Public Sector Solutions, Inc. 
    DE 
    Ingenix Public Sector Solutions Ingenix Public Sector Solutions, Inc. 
      Optum Rocket, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Optum Services (Ireland) Limited 
    Ireland 
      
      Optum Services (Puerto Rico) LLC 
    Puerto Rico 
      
      Optum Services, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Optum Solutions do Brasil   Tecnologia e Servi os de Suporte Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      
      Optum Solutions UK Holdings Limited 
    UK 
      
      Optum Technology, Inc. 
    DE 

Optum UK Solutions Group Limited 
    UK 
      
      Optum Women's and Children's Health, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Optum, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Optum360 Services, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Optum360 Solutions, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Optum360, LLC 
    DE 
      
      OptumHealth Care Solutions, LLC 
    DE 
      
      OptumHealth Financial Services, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      OptumHealth Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      OptumHealth International B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      
      OptumInsight Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      OptumInsight Life Sciences, Inc. 
    DE 
    Innovus QualityMetric QualityMetric Incorporated 
      OptumInsight, Inc. 
    DE 
    Ingenix Ingenix, Inc. Optum 
      OptumRx Administrative Services, LLC 
    TX 
      
      OptumRx Discount Card Services, LLC 
    DE 
      
      OptumRx Group Holdings, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      OptumRx Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      OptumRx Home Delivery of Illinois, LLC 
    IL 
    OptumRx of Illinois 
      OptumRx Home Delivery of Ohio, LLC 
    OH 
    OptumRx at Nationwide OptumRx of Ohio 
      OptumRx NY IPA, Inc. 
    NY 
      
      OptumRx PBM of Illinois, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      OptumRx PBM of Maryland, LLC 
    NV 
      
      OptumRx PBM of Pennsylvania, LLC 
    PA 
    FutureScripts 
      OptumRx PBM of Wisconsin, LLC 
    WI 
    OptumRx PBM Administrator of Wisconsin 
      OptumRx PD of Maryland, Inc. 
    NV 
    OptumRx PD Administrator 
      OptumRx Pharmacy of Nevada, Inc. 
    NV 
    Culinary Culinary Pharmacy 
      OptumRx Pharmacy, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      OptumRx, Inc. 
    CA 
    hi HealthInnovations OptumRx OptumRx Pharmacy at Rockwell Collins Prescription Solutions Prescription Solutions by OptumRx 
      Orlando Center for Outpatient Surgery, L.P. 
    GA 
      
      OrthoNet Holdings, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      OrthoNet LLC 
    NY 
    OrthoNet of New York 
      OrthoNet New York IPA, Inc. 
    NY 
      
      OrthoNet of the Mid-Atlantic, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      OrthoNet of the South, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      OrthoNet Services, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      OrthoNet West, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Outpatient Surgery Center of Hilton Head, LLC 
    SC 
      
      Ovations, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Oxford Benefit Management, Inc. 
    CT 

Oxford Health Insurance, Inc. 
    NY 
      
      Oxford Health Plans (CT), Inc. 
    CT 
      
      Oxford Health Plans (NJ), Inc. 
    NJ 
      
      Oxford Health Plans (NY), Inc. 
    NY 
      
      Oxford Health Plans LLC 
    DE 
    Oxford Agency - Oxford Health Plans Inc. 
      P2 Lower Acquisition, LLC 
    DE 
      
      P2P Link, LLC 
    DE 
      
      PacifiCare Life and Health Insurance Company 
    IN 
    UnitedHealthOne 
      PacifiCare Life Assurance Company 
    CO 
      
      PacifiCare of Arizona, Inc. 
    AZ 
    PacifiCare Secure Horizons 
      PacifiCare of Colorado, Inc. 
    CO 
    Comprecare, Inc. Secure Horizons 
      PacifiCare of Nevada, Inc. 
    NV 
    PacifiCare 
      Paoli Ambulatory Surgery Center 
    PA  
      
      Parkway Surgery Center, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Pasteur Plaza Surgery Center GP, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Pasteur Plaza Surgery Center, L.P. 
    CA 
      
      Payment Resolution Services, LLC 
    TN 
    AIM Healthcare Services AIM Healthcare Services, LLC AIM Services Healthcare Data Solutions Overpayment Recovery Services 
      PCCCV, Inc. 
    CA 
      
      PCN DE Corp. 
    DE 
      
      Pharmaceutical Care Network 
    CA 
      
      PHC Subsidiary Holdings, LLC 
    TX 
      
      Physician Alliance of the Rockies, LLC 
    CO 
      
      Physician Care Partners, Inc. 
    IL 
      
      Physicians Health Choice of Texas, LLC 
    TX 
    Physicians Health Choice 
      Physicians Health Plan of Maryland, Inc. 
    MD 
      
      Physicians Plaza Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Plano de Sa de Ana Costa Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      
      Plus One Health Management Puerto Rico, Inc. 
    PR 
      
      Plus One Holdings, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      PMI Acquisition, LLC 
    DE 
      
      PMSI Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      PMSI Settlement Solutions, LLC 
    FL 
    Helios Optum Settlement Solutions 
      PMSI, LLC 
    FL 
    Helios Helioscomp Helioscomp, LLC Optum Workers Compensation Services of Florida 
      Polar II Fundo de Investimento em Participa  es Multiestrategia 
    Brazil 
      
      Polo Holdco, LLC 
    DE 
      
      POMCO Network, Inc. 
    NY 
      
      POMCO of Florida Ltd., Inc. 
    FL 
      
      POMCO West, Inc. 
    DE 

POMCO, Inc. 
    NY 
    EM Risk Management Pomco Pomco Group Benefit Administrators 
      Pomcoplus, LLC 
    NY 
    AllMed Audit Services Recovery Resource Specialist 
      Pomerado Outpatient Surgical Center, Inc. 
    CA 
      
      Pomerado Outpatient Surgical Center, L.P. 
    CA 
      
      Preferred Care Partners Holding, Corp. 
    FL 
    UnitedHealthcare 
      Preferred Care Partners Medical Group, Inc. 
    FL 
    Preferred Care Partners Medical Group of Hialeah Preferred Care Partners Medical Group of Little Havana Preferred Care Partners Medical Group of North Shore Preferred Care Partners Medical Group of Red Road Preferred Care Partners Medical Group of West Hialeah Preferred Care Partners Medical Group of Westchester 
      Preferred Care Partners, Inc. 
    FL 
    CareFlorida Preferred Care Partners 
      Premier Choice ACO, Inc. 
    CA 
      
      Prime Health, Inc. 
    NV 
    Med One Works 
      PrimeCare Medical Network, Inc. 
    CA 
      
      PrimeCare of Citrus Valley, Inc. 
    CA 
      
      PrimeCare of Corona, Inc. 
    CA 
      
      PrimeCare of Hemet Valley, Inc. 
    CA 
      
      PrimeCare of Inland Valley, Inc. 
    CA 
      
      PrimeCare of Moreno Valley, Inc. 
    CA 
      
      PrimeCare of Redlands, Inc. 
    CA 
      
      PrimeCare of Riverside, Inc. 
    CA 
      
      PrimeCare of San Bernardino, Inc. 
    CA 
      
      PrimeCare of Sun City, Inc. 
    CA 
      
      PrimeCare of Temecula, Inc. 
    CA 
      
      Procura Management, Inc. 
    DE 
    Optum Managed Care Services 
      Progressive Enterprises Holdings, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Progressive Medical, LLC 
    OH 
    Automed Solutions Helios Optum Workers Compensation Services of Ohio PMI Medical Solutions, LLC PMI Solutions, LLC Progressive Medical Solutions, LLC Progressive Medical, LLC of Ohio 
      ProHEALTH Fitness of Lake Success, LLC 
    NY 
      
      ProHEALTH Medical Management, LLC 
    DE 
      
      ProHealth Physicians ACO, LLC 
    CT 
      
      ProHealth Physicians, Inc. 
    CT 
      
      ProHealth Proton Center Management, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Pronounced Health Solutions, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Pueblo-SCA Surgery Center, LLC 
    DE 

Quality Software Services, Inc. 
    MD 
    Optum Optum, Inc. Q.S.S., Inc. QSSI 
      Rally Health, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Redlands Ambulatory Surgery Center 
    CA 
      
      Redlands-SCA Surgery Centers, Inc. 
    CA 
      
      Riverside Medical Management, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Rocky Mountain Health Maintenance Organization, Incorporated 
    CO 
    Rocky Mountain Health Plans Rocky Mountain HMO 
      Rocky Mountain Health Management Corporation 
    CO 
    Rocky Mountain Health Advantage Rocky Mountain HMC Western Health Plans, Inc. 
      Rocky Mountain HealthCare Options, Inc. 
    CO 
    HealthCare Options, Inc. Rocky Mountain HCO 
      Salem Surgery Center, LLC 
    OR 
      
      Salveo Specialty Pharmacy, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Santa Helena Assist ncia M dica S.A. 
    Brazil 
      
      Santos Administra  o e Participa  es S.A. 
    Brazil 
      
      Savvysherpa Administrative Services, LLC 
    MN 
      
      Savvysherpa Asia, Inc. 
    Philippines 
      
      Savvysherpa, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Sawbill Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SC Affiliates, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA Athens, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA Austin Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA Austin Medical Center Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA BOSC Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA California Surgical Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA Capital, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA Cedar Park Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA Danbury Surgical Center, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA Development, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA eCode Solutions Private Limited 
    India 
      
      SCA EHSC Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA EWASC Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA Hays Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA HoldCo, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      SCA Holding Company, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      SCA Idaho Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA IEC Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA Indiana Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA Nashville Surgery Center, L.L.C. 
    TN 
      
      SCA of Clarksville, Inc. 
    TN 
      
      SCA Pacific Holdings, Inc. 
    CA 
      
      SCA Pennsylvania Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA Premier Surgery Center of Louisville, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA ROCS Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA Southwestern PA, LLC 
    DE 

SCA Specialists of Florida, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA SSC Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA SSSC Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA Stonegate Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA Surgery Center of Cullman, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA Surgery Centers, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA Surgery Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA Surgicare of Laguna Hills, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA Teammate Support Network 
    AL 
      
      SCA-Alliance, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Blue Ridge, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Central Florida, LLC 
    FL 
      
      SCA-Charleston, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Chevy Chase, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Citrus, Inc. 
    TN 
      
      SCA-Colorado Springs, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Davenport, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Dublin, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Encinitas, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Eugene, Inc. 
    TN 
      
      SCA-Florence, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Fort Collins, Inc. 
    CO 
      
      SCA-Fort Walton, Inc. 
    TN 
      
      SCA-Franklin, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Frederick, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Gainesville, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Gladiolus, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Grove Place, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Hagerstown, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Hamden, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Hilton Head, LLC 
    SC 
      
      SCA-Honolulu, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Houston Executive, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCAI Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Illinois, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Main Street, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Marina Del Ray LLC 
    FL 
      
      SCA-Mecklenburg Development Corp. 
    NC 
      
      SCA-Merritt, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Mobile, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Mokena Properties, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Mokena, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Mt. Pleasant, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Naperville, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-ND VBP, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      SCA-New Jersey, LLC 
    DE 

SCA-Newport Beach, LLC 
    CA 
      
      SCA-Northeast Georgia Health, LLC 
    TN 
      
      SCA-Paoli, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Phoenix, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-River Valley, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Rockville, LLC 
    FL 
      
      SCA-San Diego, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      SCA-San Luis Obispo, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Sand Lake, LLC 
    FL 
      
      SCA-Santa Rosa, Inc. 
    NV 
      
      SCA-Shelby Development Corp. 
    TN 
      
      SCA-Somerset, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-South Jersey, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Sovereign Santa Monica, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Sparta, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-St. Louis, LLC 
    MO 
      
      SCA-Wilson, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Winchester, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SCA-Winter Park, Inc. 
    TN 
      
      SCP Specialty Infusion, LLC 
    DE 
      
      ScriptSwitch Limited 
    UK 
      
      Seisa Servi os Integrados de Sa de Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      
      Senior Care Partners, Inc. 
    IL 
      
      Serquinox Holdings LLC 
    DE 
      
      SharedClarity LLC 
    DE 
      
      SHC Atlanta, LLC 
    DE 
      
      SHC Austin, Inc. 
    TX 
      
      SHC Hawthorn, Inc. 
    IL 
      
      SHC Melbourne, Inc. 
    FL 
      
      Shelby Surgery Properties, Inc. 
    TN 
      
      Sierra Health and Life Insurance Company, Inc. 
    NV 
      
      Sierra Health Services, Inc. 
    NV 
    Sierra Military Health Services, LLC 
      Sierra Health-Care Options, Inc. 
    NV 
      
      Sierra Home Medical Products, Inc. 
    NV 
    THC of Nevada THC of Nevada Pharmacy 
      Sierra Nevada Administrators, Inc. 
    NV 
      
      Somerset Outpatient Surgery, L.L.C. 
    NJ 
      
      Southwest Medical Associates, Inc. 
    NV 
    SMA Lifestyle Center Southwest Hospitalist Services Group 
      Southwest Michigan Health Network Inc. 
    MI 
      
      Southwest Surgery Center, LLC 
    IL 
      
      Southwest Surgical Center of Bakersfield, L.P. 
    CA  
      
      Space Coast Surgery Center, Ltd. 
    FL 
      
      Specialists in Urology Surgery Center, LLC 
    FL 
      
      Specialty Benefits, LLC 
    DE 
    EyeFit EyeFit Vision Center EyeFit Vision Centers 
      Specialty Surgical Center, LLC 
    NJ 

Spectera of New York, IPA, Inc. 
    NY 
      
      Spectera, Inc. 
    MD 
    CARE Programs, a division of Spectera, Inc Health Benefit Sevices, Inc. Spectera United Optical 
      SPINETRACK 20/20 Inc. 
    CA 
      
      Spotlite, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      SRPS, LLC 
    DE 
      
      St. Cloud Surgical Center, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Stonegate Surgery Center, L.P. 
    TX 
      
      Streamlines Health, LLC 
    MN 
      
      SunSurgery, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Surgery Center Holding, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Surgery Center of Athens, LLC 
    GA 
      
      Surgery Center of Boca Raton, Inc. 
    FL 
      
      Surgery Center of Clarksville, L.P. 
    TN 
      
      Surgery Center of Colorado Springs, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Surgery Center of Des Moines, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Surgery Center of Easton, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Surgery Center of Louisville, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Surgery Center of Maui, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Surgery Center of Muskogee, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Surgery Center of Rockville, L.L.C. 
    MD 
      
      Surgery Center of Southern Pines, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Surgery Center of Summerlin, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Surgery Center of Vero Beach, Inc. 
    TN 
      
      Surgery Center of Wilson, LLC 
    NC 
      
      Surgery Centers of Des Moines, Ltd. 
    IA 
      
      Surgery Centers-West Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Surgical Care Affiliates Political Action Committee 
    AL 
      
      Surgical Care Affiliates, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Surgical Care Partners of Melbourne, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Surgical Center of South Jersey, Limited Partnership 
    NJ 
      
      Surgical Center of Tuscaloosa Holdings, LLC 
    AL 
      
      Surgical Health of Orlando, Inc. 
    FL 
      
      Surgical Health, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Surgical Holdings, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Surgical Hospital Holdings of Oklahoma, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Surgical Hospital of Oklahoma, L.L.C. 
    OK 
      
      Surgicare of Belleville, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Surgicare of Jackson, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Surgicare of Joliet, Inc. 
    IL 
      
      Surgicare of La Veta, Inc. 
    CA 
      
      Surgicare of Minneapolis, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Surgicare of Minneapolis, Ltd. 
    MN 
      
      Surgicare of Mobile, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Surgicare of Oceanside, Inc. 
    CA 

Surgicare of Owensboro, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Surgicare of Salem, LLC 
    DE  
      
      Surgicenters of Southern California, Inc. 
    CA 
      
      Symphonix Health Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Symphonix Health Insurance, Inc. 
    IL 
      
      TeamMD Holdings, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      TeamMD Iowa, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      TeamMD Physicians of Texas, Inc. 
    TX 
      
      TeamMD Physicians, P.C. 
    IA 
      
      The Advisory Board (Chile) SpA 
    Chile 
      
      The Advisory Board Company 
    DE 
      
      The Lewin Group, Inc. 
    NC 
    Lewin 
      The Surgery Center of Easton, L.P. 
    TN 
      
      Thomas Johnson Surgery Center, LLC 
    MD 
      
      Thousand Oaks Endoscopy Center, LLC 
    CA 
      
      Three Rivers Holdings, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Three Rivers Surgical Care, L.P. 
    TN 
      
      Tmesys, LLC 
    FL 
      
      Topimagem Diagn stico por Imagem Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      
      Travel Express Incorporated 
    MD 
      
      TriMed, LLC 
    UT 
      
      U.S. Behavioral Health Plan, California 
    CA 
    Life Strategies OptumHealth Behavioral Solutions of California 
      UHC Finance (Ireland) Unlimited Company 
    Ireland 
      
      UHC Global Health Services BC Ltd. 
    Canada 
      
      UHC International Services, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      UHC of California 
    CA 
    PacifiCare PacifiCare of California Secure Horizons UnitedHealthcare of California 
      UHCFI LLC 
    DE 
      
      UHCG Holdings (Ireland) Limited 
    Ireland 
      
      UHCG Services (Ireland) Limited 
    Ireland 
      
      UHG Brasil Participa  es S.A. 
    Brazil 
      
      UHIC Holdings, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      UMR, Inc. 
    DE 
    Administrative Services Group Fiserv Health - Wausau Benefits UMR 
      Unimerica Insurance Company 
    WI 
    Unimerica Life Insurance Company 
      Unimerica Life Insurance Company of New York 
    NY 
      
      Unison Administrative Services, LLC 
    PA 
      
      Unison Health Plan of Delaware, Inc. 
    DE 
    UnitedHealthcare Community Plan 
      United Behavioral Health 
    CA 
    Life Strategies Optum Idaho OptumHealth Behavioral Solutions Plan 21, Incorporated Plan 21, INCORPORATED United Behavioral Health (Inc.) United Behavioral Health, Inc. 
      United Behavioral Health of New York, I.P.A., Inc. 
    NY 

United Health Foundation 
    MN 
    United Health Hospice Foundation 
      United HealthCare Services, Inc. 
    MN 
    AmeriChoice Center for Health Care Policy and Evaluation EverCare Health Professionals Review Healthmarc HealthPro Institute for Human Resources Optum UHC MANAGEMENT   ADMINISTRATORS UHC Management Company UHC Management Company, Inc. United HealthCare Corporation United HealthCare Management Company, Inc. United HealthCare Management Services United HealthCare Services of Minnesota United HealthCare Services of Minnesota, Inc. United Resource Networks United Resource Networks, Inc. UnitedHealthcare MedicareStore 
      United Resource Networks IPA of New York, Inc. 
    NY 
      
      UnitedHealth Advisors, LLC 
    ME 
    UnitedHealthcare 
      UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 
    DE 
    UnitedHealth Group 
      UnitedHealth Group International GP 
    Cayman 
      
      UnitedHealth Group International L.P. 
    Cayman 
      
      UnitedHealth International, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      UnitedHealth Military   Veterans Services, LLC 
    DE 
      
      UnitedHealth UK Limited 
    UK 
      
      UnitedHealthcare Benefits of Texas, Inc. 
    TX 
    PacifiCare Secure Horizons 
      UnitedHealthcare Benefits Plan of California 
    CA 
      
      UnitedHealthcare Community Plan of California, Inc. 
    CA 
      
      UnitedHealthcare Community Plan of Georgia, Inc. 
    GA 
      
      UnitedHealthcare Community Plan of Ohio, Inc. 
    OH 
    Unison Unison ABD Plus Unison Advantage Unison Health Plan Unison Kids 
      UnitedHealthcare Community Plan of Texas, L.L.C. 
    TX 
    United Healthcare - Texas UnitedHealthcare Comminity Plan 
      UnitedHealthcare Community Plan, Inc. 
    MI 
      
      UnitedHealthcare Consulting   Assistance Service (Beijing) Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      
      UnitedHealthcare Europe S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      
      UnitedHealthcare Global Canada Limited 
    Canada 
    UnitedHealthcare Global 
      UnitedHealthcare Global Medical (UK) Limited 
    UK 
      
      UnitedHealthcare India Private Limited 
    India 
      
      UnitedHealthcare Insurance Company 
    CT 
    UnitedHealthcare Community Plan UnitedHealthOne 
      UnitedHealthcare Insurance Company of Illinois 
    IL 
      
      UnitedHealthcare Insurance Company of New York 
    NY 
      
      UnitedHealthcare Insurance Company of the River Valley 
    IL 

UnitedHealthcare Integrated Services, Inc. 
    AZ 
    Evercare Select UnitedHealthcare Community Plan 
      UnitedHealthcare International Asia, LLC 
    DE 
      
      UnitedHealthcare International I B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      
      UnitedHealthcare International I S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      
      UnitedHealthcare International II B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      
      UnitedHealthcare International II S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      
      UnitedHealthcare International III B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      
      UnitedHealthcare International III S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      
      UnitedHealthcare International IV B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      
      UnitedHealthcare International IV S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      
      UnitedHealthcare International IX S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      
      UnitedHealthcare International V S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      
      UnitedHealthcare International VI S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      
      UnitedHealthcare International VII S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      
      UnitedHealthcare International VIII S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      
      UnitedHealthcare Life Insurance Company 
    WI 
    UnitedHealthOne 
      UnitedHealthcare of Alabama, Inc. 
    AL 
      
      UnitedHealthcare of Arizona, Inc. 
    AZ 
      
      UnitedHealthcare of Arkansas, Inc. 
    AR 
    Complete Health 
      UnitedHealthcare of Colorado, Inc. 
    CO 
    MetraHealth Care Plan 
      UnitedHealthcare of Florida, Inc. 
    FL 
    AMERICHOICE EVERCARE AT HOME OPTUMHEALTH OVATIONS 
      UnitedHealthcare of Georgia, Inc. 
    GA 
    United HealthCare of Georgia 
      UnitedHealthcare of Illinois, Inc. 
    IL 
      
      UnitedHealthcare of Kentucky, Ltd. 
    KY 
    United HealthCare of Kentucky, L.P. 
      UnitedHealthcare of Louisiana, Inc. 
    LA 
    UnitedHealthcare Community Plan 
      UnitedHealthcare of Mississippi, Inc. 
    MS 
      
      UnitedHealthcare of New England, Inc. 
    RI 
      
      UnitedHealthcare of New Mexico, Inc. 
    NM 
      
      UnitedHealthcare of New York, Inc. 
    NY 
    UnitedHealthcare Community Plan 
      UnitedHealthcare of North Carolina, Inc. 
    NC 
      
      UnitedHealthcare of Ohio, Inc. 
    OH 
      
      UnitedHealthcare of Oklahoma, Inc. 
    OK 
    PacifiCare PacifiCare Health Options PacifiCare of Oklahoma Secure Horizons 
      UnitedHealthcare of Oregon, Inc. 
    OR 
      
      UnitedHealthcare of Pennsylvania, Inc. 
    PA 
      
      UnitedHealthcare of Texas, Inc. 
    TX 
      
      UnitedHealthcare of the Mid-Atlantic, Inc. 
    MD 
      
      UnitedHealthcare of the Midlands, Inc. 
    NE 
      
      UnitedHealthcare of the Midwest, Inc. 
    MO 
      
      UnitedHealthcare of Utah, Inc. 
    UT 
    UnitedHealthcare of Idaho, Inc. 
      UnitedHealthcare of Washington, Inc. 
    WA 
    PacifiCare Secure Horizons UnitedHealthcare UnitedHealthcare Community Plan 

UnitedHealthcare of Wisconsin, Inc. 
    WI 
    UnitedHealthcare of Wisconsin - Personal Care Plus 
      UnitedHealthcare Plan of the River Valley, Inc. 
    IL 
      
      UnitedHealthcare Risk Designated Activity Company 
    Ireland 
      
      UnitedHealthcare Service LLC 
    DE 
      
      UnitedHealthcare Services Company of the River Valley, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      UnitedHealthcare Specialty Benefits, LLC 
    ME 
    UnitedHealthcare Specialty Benefits WorkUp, LLC 
      UnitedHealthcare, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      UpFront Insurance Agency, LLC 
    MN 
      
      Upland Outpatient Surgical Center, L.P. 
    CA 
      
      Urgent Care Holdings, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      Urgent Care MSO, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Urology Associates of North Texas, P.L.L.C. 
    TX 
      
      USMD Administrative Services, L.L.C. 
    TX 
      
      USMD Affiliated Services 
    TX 
      
      USMD Holdings, Inc. 
    DE 
      
      USMD Inc. 
    TX 
      
      USMD PPM, LLC 
    TX 
      
      Valley Physicians Network, Inc. 
    CA 
      
      Virtual Therapeutics Corporation 
    DE 
      
      Wauwatosa Outpatient Surgery Center, LLC 
    DE 
      
      Wauwatosa Surgery Center, Limited Partnership 
    WI 
      
      Wayland Square Surgicare Acquisition, L.P. 
    RI 
      
      Wayland Square Surgicare GP, Inc. 
    RI 
      
      WellMed Medical Management of Florida, Inc. 
    FL 
    Preferred Care Partners Medical Group of Hialeah Preferred Care Partners Medical Group of Little Havana Preferred Care Partners Medical Group of North Shore Preferred Care Partners Medical Group of Red Road Preferred Care Partners Medical Group of West Hialeah Preferred Care Partners Medical Group of Westchester WellMed at 9th Ave. North WellMed at Bartow WellMed at Downtown Clearwater WellMed at Fort Pierce WellMed at Haines City WellMed at Lake Copeland WellMed at Longwood WellMed at Oak Commons WellMed at Plant City - Family Practice Center WellMed at Port St. Lucie West WellMed at Saint Isabel WellMed at SE Lakeland WellMed at Sebastian WellMed at South Parsons WellMed at South Stuart WellMed at Southwest Orlando WellMed at Stonerock Lake WellMed Medical Group 

WellMed Medical Management, Inc. 
    TX 
    DataRaps, Inc. HealthRight / ITC Rosa Verde Silver Life Fitness 
      WellMed Networks - DFW, Inc. 
    TX 
    WNI-DFW 
      West Coast Endoscopy Holdings, LLC 
    DE 
      
      WESTMED Practice Partners LLC 
    DE 
      
      Winchester Endoscopy, LLC 
    IL 
      
      Winter Park, LLC 
    TN 
      
      XLHealth Corporation 
    MD 
      
      XLHealth Corporation India Private Limited 
    India 
      
      Your Health Options Insurance Services, Inc. 
    CA 
      
      Your Partner in Health Services, Inc. 
    IL 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 5
 unhex23112312017.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.1

Exhibit 

Exhibit 23.1 
    
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement File No. 333-216150 on Form S-3, No. 333-105877 on Form S-4, Nos. 333-174436, 333-174437, 333-189419, 333-193962, 333-205824 ,333-205826 and 333-221642 on Form S-8 and Post-Effective Amendment on Form S-8 to Registration Statement File No. 333-216153 on Form S-4 of our reports dated February 13, 2018 relating to the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and subsidiaries, and the effectiveness of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and subsidiaries  internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated for the year ended December 31, 2017. 

</EX-23.1>

<EX-24.1>
 6
 unhex24112312017.htm
 EXHIBIT 24.1

Exhibit 

Exhibit 24.1 

FORM 10-K POWER OF ATTORNEY 
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Marianne D. Short, Dannette L. Smith and Faraz A. Choudhry, and each of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, each acting alone, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign an Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, and any and all amendments thereto, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, each acting alone, or each of their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Power of Attorney as of the date set forth below.    

</EX-24.1>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 unhex31112312017.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 31.1  
  CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE  
  SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  
  Certification of Principal Executive Officer  
    
   I, David S. Wichmann, certify that: 
    
           1. 
    I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the  registrant  
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 

February 13, 2018 
    /s/    DAVID S. WICHMANN 
        
    David S. Wichmann 
  Chief Executive Officer 

Certification of Principal Financial Officer  
    
  I, John F. Rex certify that: 
    
           1. 
    I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the  registrant  
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 

February 13, 2018 
    /s/    JOHN F. REX 
        
    John F. Rex Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 unhex32112312017.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 32.1  
  CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO  
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,  
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO  
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  
  Certification of Principal Executive Officer  
  In connection with the report of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2017 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, David S. Wichmann, certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:  
           (1) 
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
              (2) 
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

February 13, 2018 
    /s/    DAVID S. WICHMANN 
        
    David S. Wichmann 
  Chief Executive Officer 

Certification of Principal Financial Officer  
  In connection with the report of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2017 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, John F. Rex, certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:  
           (1) 
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
              (2) 
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

February 13, 2018 
    /s/    JOHN F. REX 
        
    John F. Rex Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-101.INS>
 9
 unh-20171231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 10
 unh-20171231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 11
 unh-20171231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 12
 unh-20171231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 13
 unh-20171231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 14
 unh-20171231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

