<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100225_10-K_edgar_data_797468_0000797468-10-000020_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>16121485</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>320747</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>422170</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>4342782</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>4936812</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>4885670</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>107</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>16</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000797468-10-000020.hdr.sgml : 20100225
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100225145337
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000797468-10-000020
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		29
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20091231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20100225
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100225

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP /DE/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000797468
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS [1311]
		IRS NUMBER:				954035997
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-09210
		FILM NUMBER:		10633133

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		10889 WILSHIRE BLVD
		CITY:			LOS ANGELES
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			90024
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3102088800

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		10889 WILSHIRE BOULEVARD
		CITY:			LOS ANGELES
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			90024

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Fq6nJPidsAahQzh7vqYTXaKTCVZzNECLYff2OqSz7i48wrMWipFxikls2WO8rdGf
 NuDzUDQXl07wnLxzwOcsdw==

 0000797468-10-000020.txt : 20100225

10-K
 1
 form10k-2009.htm
 FORM 10-K

form10k-2009.htm 

UNITED
      STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington,
      D.C. 20549 

Form 10-K 

R   Annual Report
      Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
      1934  

Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
      Exchange Act of 1934 

For
      the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 

For
      the transition period
      from                to 

Commission
      File Number 1-9210 

Occidental Petroleum Corporation 

(Exact
      name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

State
      or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization 

Delaware 

I.R.S.
      Employer Identification No. 

95-4035997 

Address
      of principal executive offices 

10889
      Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 

Zip
      Code 

90024 

Registrant's
      telephone number, including area code 

(310)
      208-8800 

Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Title
      of Each Class 

Name
      of Each Exchange on Which Registered 

9
      1/4% Senior Debentures due 2019 

New
      York Stock Exchange 

Common
      Stock 

New
      York Stock Exchange 

Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 

Indicate by check
      mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule
      405 of the Securities Act.    R   YES         NO  

Indicate by check
      mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section
      13 or Section 15(d) of the Act: (Note: Checking the box will not relieve
      any registrant required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
      the Exchange Act from their obligations under those
      Sections).         
            YES           
        R   NO  

Indicate by check
      mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
      by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
      the  preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
      registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
      such filing requirements for the past
      90 days.       R   YES                    NO  

Indicate by check
      mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its
      corporate web site, if any, every Interactive Date File required to be
      submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the
      preceding 12 months (or such shorter period as the registrant was required
      to submit and post
      files).          R   YES            NO  

Indicate by check
      mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
      S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
      registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
      incorporated  by  reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
      amendment to this Form 10-K.
                    R  

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
      accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting
      company.  (See definition of "large accelerated filer,"
      "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the
      Exchange Act). 

                   Large Accelerated
      Filer     R       Accelerated
      Filer              

                   Non-Accelerated
      Filer            Smaller Reporting
      Company         

Indicate by check
      mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Exchange Act
      Rule 12b-2).           YES   R   NO  

The
      aggregate market value of the voting common stock held by nonaffiliates of
      the registrant was approximately $52.73 billion, computed by reference to
      the closing price on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape of $65.81
      per share of Common Stock on June 30, 2009.  Shares of Common
      Stock held by each executive officer and director have been excluded from
      this computation in that such persons may be deemed to be
      affiliates.  This determination of potential affiliate status is
      not a conclusive determination for other purposes. 

At
      January 31, 2010, there were 811,955,959 shares of Common Stock
      outstanding. 

DOCUMENTS
      INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

Portions
      of the registrant s definitive Proxy Statement, filed in connection with
      its May 7, 2010, Annual Meeting of Stockholders, are incorporated by
      reference into Part III. 

TABLE
      OF CONTENTS 

Page 

Part
      I 

Items
      1 and 2 

Business
      and Properties 

3 

General 

3 

Oil
      and Gas Operations 

3 

Chemical
      Operations 

4 

Midstream,
      Marketing and Other Operations 

5 

Capital
      Expenditures 

5 

Employees 

5 

Environmental
      Regulation 

5 

Available
      Information 

5 

Item
      1A 

Risk
      Factors 

6 

Item
      1B 

Unresolved
      Staff Comments 

7 

Item
      3 

Legal
      Proceedings  

7 

Item
      4 

Submission
      of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

7 

Executive
      Officers  

7 

Part
      II 

Item
      5 

Market
      for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
      Purchases of Equity Securities 

8 

Item
      6 

Selected
      Financial Data  

10 

Item
      7 and 7A 

Management s
      Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
      (MD A) 

10 

Strategy

10 

Oil
      and Gas Segment  

13 

Chemical
      Segment  

18 

Midstream,
      Marketing and Other Segment  

18 

Segment
      Results of Operations  

19 

Significant
      Items Affecting Earnings  

21 

Taxes

21 

Consolidated
      Results of Operations  

22 

Consolidated
      Analysis of Financial Position  

23 

Liquidity
      and Capital Resources  

23 

Off-Balance-Sheet
      Arrangements  

25 

Contractual
      Obligations  

25 

Lawsuits,
      Claims, Commitments, Contingencies and Related Matters  

25 

Environmental
      Liabilities and Expenditures  

26 

Foreign
      Investments  

27 

Critical
      Accounting Policies and Estimates  

28 

Significant
      Accounting and Disclosure Changes  

31 

Derivative
      Activities and Market Risk  

31 

Safe
      Harbor Discussion Regarding Outlook and Other Forward-Looking Data

33 

Item
      8 

Financial
      Statements and Supplementary Data  

34 

Management's
      Annual Assessment of and Report on Internal Control Over Financial
      Reporting 

34 

Report
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Consolidated Financial
      Statements 

35 

Report
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over
      Financial Reporting 

36 

Consolidated
      Statements of Income  

37 

Consolidated
      Balance Sheets  

38 

Consolidated
      Statements of Stockholders  Equity  

40 

Consolidated
      Statements of Comprehensive Income  

40 

Consolidated
      Statements of Cash Flows  

41 

Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements  

42 

Quarterly
      Financial Data (Unaudited)  

69 

Supplemental
      Oil and Gas Information (Unaudited)  

71 

Financial
      Statement Schedule: 

Schedule
      II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts  

84 

Item
      9 

Changes
      in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
      Disclosure 

85 

Item
      9A 

Controls
      and Procedures  

85 

Disclosure
      Controls and Procedures  

85 

Part
      III 

Item
      10 

Directors,
      Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  

85 

Item
      11 

Executive
      Compensation  

85 

Item
      12 

Security
      Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  

85 

Item
      13 

Certain
      Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence

85 

Item
      14 

Principal
      Accountant Fees and Services  

85 

Part
      IV 

Item
      15 

Exhibits
      and Financial Statement Schedules 

86 

Part I 

      Items 1 And 2    Busine ss 
and Properties 

      In this
report, "Occidental" refers to Occidental Petroleum Corporation, a Delaware
corporation (OPC), and/or one or more entities in which it owns a majority
voting interest (subsidiaries).  Occidental conducts its operations
through various oil and gas; chemical; midstream, marketing and other
subsidiaries and affiliates.  Occidental s executive offices are
located at 10889 Wilshire Boulevard, Los Angeles, California 90024; telephone
(310) 208-8800. 

General  

      Occidental s
principal businesses consist of three segments.  The oil and gas
segment explores for, develops, produces and markets crude oil, including
natural gas liquids (NGLs) and condensate, as well as natural
gas.  The chemical segment (OxyChem) manufactures and markets basic
chemicals, vinyls and other chemicals.  The midstream, marketing and
other segment (midstream and marketing) gathers, treats, processes, transports,
stores, purchases and markets crude oil (including NGLs and condensate), natural
gas, carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) and
power.  It also trades around its assets, including pipelines and
storage capacity, and trades commodities and securities.  Unless
otherwise indicated hereafter, discussion of oil or oil and liquids refers to
crude oil, NGLs and condensate. 

      For
information regarding Occidental's current developments, segments and geographic
areas, see the information  in  the
"Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" (MD A) section of this report and Note 16 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. 

Oil and Gas Operations 

      General 

      Occidental s
domestic oil and gas operations are located in Texas, New Mexico, California,
Kansas, Oklahoma, Utah and Colorado.  International operations are
located in Argentina, Bahrain, Bolivia, Colombia, Libya, Oman, Qatar, the United
Arab Emirates (UAE) and Yemen. 

Proved   Reserves   and   Sales   Volumes  

      The table
below shows Occidental s total oil and natural gas proved reserves and sales
volumes in 2009, 2008 and 2007.  See "MD A   Oil and Gas
Segment," and the information under the caption "Supplemental Oil and Gas
Information" for certain details regarding Occidental s oil and gas proved
reserves, the reserves estimation process, sales volumes, production costs and
other reserves-related data. 

(a) 

Includes
      NGLs and condensate. 

(b) 

Natural
      gas volumes have been converted to BOE based on energy content of six
      thousand cubic feet (Mcf) of gas to one barrel of oil. 

(c) 

Stated
      on a net basis after applicable royalties.  Includes proved
      reserves related to production-sharing contracts (PSCs) and other similar
      economic arrangements of 1.1 billion BOE in 2009, 825 million BOE (MMBOE)
      in 2008 and 601 MMBOE in 2007. 

3 

Competition   and   Sales   and   Marketing  

      As a
producer of oil and natural gas, Occidental competes with numerous other
domestic and foreign private and government producers.  Oil and
natural gas are commodities that are sensitive to prevailing global and, in
certain cases, local conditions of supply and demand and are sold at "spot" or
contract prices or through the futures markets to refiners and other market
participants.  Occidental competes by developing and producing its
worldwide oil and gas reserves cost-effectively and acquiring rights to explore
and develop in areas with known oil and gas deposits.  Occidental also
  competes
by increasing production through enhanced oil recovery projects in mature and
underdeveloped fields and making strategic acquisitions. 

Chemical Operations 

      OxyChem
manufactures and markets basic chemicals, vinyls and other
chemicals. 

      OxyChem
owns and operates manufacturing plants at 22 domestic sites in Alabama, Georgia,
Illinois, Kansas, Louisiana, Michigan, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania
and Texas, at two international sites in Canada and Chile and has interests in a
Brazilian joint venture.  OxyChem produces the following
products: 

Principal
      Products 

Major
      Uses 

Annual
      Capacity 

Basic
      Chemicals 

Chlorine 

Chlorovinyl
      chain and water treatment 

4.0
      million tons  (a)  

Caustic
      Soda 

Pulp,
      paper and aluminum production 

4.2
      million tons  (a)  

Chlorinated
      organics 

Silicones,
      paint stripping, pharmaceuticals and refrigerants 

0.9
      billion pounds 

Potassium
      chemicals 

Glass,
      fertilizers, cleaning products and rubber 

0.4
      million tons 

Ethylene
      dichloride (EDC) 

Raw
      material for vinyl chloride monomer (VCM) 

2.4
      billion pounds  (a)  

Vinyls 

VCM 

Precursor
      for polyvinyl chloride (PVC) 

6.2
      billion pounds 

PVC 

Piping,
      medical, building materials and automotive products 

3.7
      billion pounds 

Other
      Chemicals 

Chlorinated
      isocyanurates 

Swimming
      pool sanitation and disinfecting products 

131
      million pounds 

Resorcinol 

Tire
      manufacture, wood adhesives and flame retardant synergist 

50
      million pounds 

Sodium
      silicates 

Soaps,
      detergents and paint pigments 

0.6
      million tons 

Calcium
      chloride 

Ice
      melting, dust control, road stabilization and oil field
      services 

0.7
      million tons 

(a) 

Includes
      gross capacity of a joint venture in Brazil, owned 50 percent by
      Occidental. 

4 

Midstream, Marketing and Other Operations 

      The
midstream and marketing segment gathers, treats, processes, transports, stores,
purchases and markets crude oil (including NGLs and condensate), natural gas,
CO 2 
and power.  It also trades around its assets, including pipelines and
storage capacity, and trades commodities and securities. 

Below is a
description of midstream and marketing operations: 

Location 

Description 

Capacity 

Gas
      Plants 

California,
      Colorado and Permian Basin 

Occidental-operated
      and third-party-operated gas gathering, treating, compression and
      processing systems, and CO 2 
      processing 

1.958
      billion cubic feet per day 

Pipelines 

Permian
      Basin and Oklahoma 

Common
      carrier oil pipeline and storage system 

365,000
      barrels of oil per day 

                5.8
      million barrels of oil storage 

                2,760
      miles of pipeline 

Colorado,
      New Mexico and Texas - CO 2  fields
      and pipelines 

CO 2 
      fields and pipeline systems transporting CO 2  to
      oil and gas producing locations 

1.625
      billion cubic feet per day 

Qatar
      - Dolphin Pipeline 

24.5%
      equity investment in a natural gas pipeline 

3.2
      billion cubic feet of natural gas per day 
      (a)  

Western
      and Southern United States and Canada 

Minority
      investment in entity involved in pipeline transportation, storage and
      marketing of oil, gas and related petroleum products 

16,000
      miles of pipeline and gathering systems  (b)  

                85
      million barrels of liquid storage  (b)  

Marketing
      and Trading 

Texas,
      Connecticut, United Kingdom, Singapore and other 

Trades
      around its assets and purchases, markets and trades oil, gas, power, other
      commodities and securities 

Not
      applicable 

Power
      Generation 

California,
      Texas and Louisiana 

Occidental-operated
      power and steam generation facilities and 50% equity investment in a power
      generation facility 

1,800
      megawatts per hour  (c)  and
      1.6 million pounds of steam per hour  (c)  

(a) 

Capacity
      requires additional gas compression and customer
  contracts. 

(b) 

Amounts
      are gross, including interests held by third parties. 

(c) 

Includes
      gross capacity of a joint venture in California, owned 50 percent by
      Occidental. 

Capital Expenditures 

      For
information on capital expenditures, see the information under the heading
"Liquidity and Capital Resources   Capital Expenditures"   in the MD A section
of this report. 

Employees 

      Occidental
employed approximately 10,100 people at December 31, 2009, 7,000 of whom were
located in the United States.  Occidental employed approximately 6,100
people in the oil and gas and midstream and marketing segments and 3,000 people
in the chemical segment.  An additional 1,000 people were employed in
administrative and headquarters functions.  Approximately 900
U.S.-based employees and 200 foreign-based employees are represented by labor
unions. 

Occidental
has a long-standing strict policy to provide fair and equal employment
opportunities to all applicants and employees. 

Environmental Regulation 

      For
environmental regulation information, including associated costs, see the
information under the heading "Environmental Liabilities and Expenditures" in
the MD A section of this report and "Risk Factors." 

Available Information 

      Occidental
makes the following information available free of charge through its web site at
www.oxy.com: 

Forms
      10-K, 10-Q, 8-K and amendments to these forms as soon as reasonably
      practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the
      Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC); 

5 

Other
      SEC filings, including Forms 3, 4 and 5; and 

Corporate
      governance information, including its corporate governance guidelines,
      board-committee charters and Code of Business Conduct.  (See
      Part III Item 10 of this report for further
      information.) 

Information
contained on Occidental's web site is not part of this annual
report. 

Item 1A   
                 Risk Factors   

Volatile
global and local commodity pricing strongly affects Occidental s results of
operations. 

      Occidental s
financial results typically correlate closely to the prices it obtains for its
products. 

      Changes in
consumption patterns, global and local economic conditions, inventory levels,
production disruptions, the actions of OPEC, currency exchange rates, market
speculation, worldwide drilling and exploration activities, weather, geophysical
and technical limitations and other matters may affect the supply and demand
dynamics of oil and gas, contributing to price volatility. 

      Demand
and, consequently, the price obtained for Occidental s chemical products
correlate strongly to the health of the United States and global economy, as
well as chemical industry expansion and contraction
cycles.  Occidental also depends on feedstocks and energy to produce
chemicals, which are commodities subject to significant price
fluctuations. 

Occidental s
oil and gas business operates in highly competitive environments, which affect,
among other things, its results of operations and its ability to grow production
and replace reserves. 

      Growth in
Occidental s oil and gas production and results of operations depends, in part,
on its ability to profitably acquire, develop or find additional
reserves.  Occidental replaces significant amounts of its reserves
through acquisitions, exploration and large development
projects.  Occidental has many competitors (including national oil
companies), some of which are larger and better funded, may be willing to accept
greater risks or have special competencies.  Competition for reserves
may make it more difficult to find attractive investment opportunities or
require delay of expected reserve replacement efforts.  Cash
conservation considerations during periods of low product prices may delay
production growth and reserve replacement efforts. 

Governmental
actions, political instability and labor unrest may affect Occidental s results
of operations. 

      Occidental s
businesses are subject to the decisions of many governments and political
interests.  As a result, Occidental faces risks of: 

new
      or amended laws and regulations, including those related to taxes, royalty
      rates, profit repatriation, permitted production rates, import, export and
      use of equipment, safety, security and environmental protection, all of
      which may increase costs or reduce the demand for Occidental's
      products; 

reduction
      of entitlements to produce oil and gas; and 

refusal
      or delay in the extension or grant of exploration, production or
      development contracts. 

Occidental
may experience adverse consequences, such as  risk
of loss or production limitations, because certain of its foreign
 operations are located in countries occasionally affected by political
instability,  armed conflict, terrorism,
insurgency, civil unrest, security problems, labor unrest, OPEC production
restrictions, equipment import restrictions and sanctions.  Exposure
to such risks may increase if a greater percentage of Occidental s future oil
and gas production comes from foreign sources.  

Occidental s
oil and gas reserves are based on professional judgments and may be subject to
revision. 

      Calculations
of oil and gas reserves depend on estimates concerning reservoir characteristics
and recoverability, as well as capital and operating costs.  If
Occidental were required to make unanticipated significant negative reserve
revisions, its results of operations and stock price could be adversely
affected. 

Occidental
may incur significant losses in exploration activities or delays or cost
overruns in development efforts. 

      Exploration
is inherently risky.  Exploration and development activities are
subject to misinterpretation of geologic or engineering data, unexpected
geologic conditions or finding reserves of disappointing quality or quantity,
which may result in significant losses.   Occidental bears the risks of project delays and cost
overruns due to equipment failures, approval delays, construction delays,
escalating costs for materials and labor, border disputes and other associated
risks in its development efforts.  

Occidental
faces risks associated with its mergers and acquisitions. 

      Occidental's
merger and acquisition activities carry risks that it may not fully realize
anticipated benefits. 

Concerns
about climate change or energy dependence may affect Occidental s operations or
results of operations. 

      There is
an ongoing scientific effort to assess and quantify the effects of climate
change and the potential human influences on climate.  Related efforts
by various U.S. and foreign jurisdictions to propose or adopt legislation,
regulations or policies, some of which have been adopted, seek to control or
reduce emissions of  greenhouse gases  or consumption of fossil
fuels.  Although the effect of these efforts on Occidental is
uncertain, Occidental faces risks of delays in new or expanded development
projects, increases in taxes, increases in costs to produce and reductions in
the demand for, and restrictions on the use of, its products. 

6 

Occidental s
businesses may experience catastrophic events. 

      The
occurrence of events, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, well blowouts,
fires, explosions, chemical releases, industrial accidents, and other events
that cause operations to cease or be curtailed, may affect Occidental s
businesses and communities in which it operates.  Third-party
insurance may not provide adequate coverage or Occidental may be self-insured
with respect to the related losses. 

Other
risk factors. 

      Additional
discussion of risks related to oil and gas reserve estimation processes, price
and demand, litigation, environmental matters, foreign operations, impairments,
derivatives and market risks appears  under the
headings:     "MD A   Oil   Gas Segment  Proved
Reserves" and "  Industry Outlook," "Chemical Segment   Industry
Outlook," "Midstream, Marketing and Other Segment   Industry Outlook,"
"Lawsuits, Claims, Commitments, Contingencies and Related Matters,"
"Environmental Liabilities and Expenditures," "Foreign Investments," "Critical
Accounting Policies and Estimates," and "Derivative Activities and Market
Risk."  

Item 1B   
                     Unresolved Staff
Comments   

None. 

Item 3   
                       Legal
Proceedings   

For
information regarding legal proceedings, see the information under the caption,
"Lawsuits, Claims, Commitments, Contingencies and Related Matters" in the
MD A section of this report and in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements. 

      An OPC
subsidiary has reached a settlement in connection with a previously disclosed
matter for less than $200,000 with the Colorado Department of Public Health and
Environment to voluntarily resolve alleged violations relating to air permitting
and emissions at its Garfield County, Colorado operations. 

Item 4   
                         Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
      Holders   

No matters
were submitted to a vote of Occidental s security holders during the fourth
quarter of 2009. 

Executive Officers 

The
current term of employment of each executive officer of Occidental will expire
at the May 7, 2010 organizational meeting of the Board of Directors or when a
successor is selected. The following table sets forth the executive officers and
significant employees of Occidental: 

7 

Part II 

Item 5   
                     
                          Market   for
       Registrant s  Common Equity, Related Stockholder
      Matters  and Issuer Purchases of Equity
      Securities    

Trading Price Range and Dividends 

      This
section incorporates by reference the quarterly financial data appearing under
the caption "Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)" after the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements and the information appearing under the
caption "Liquidity and Capital Resources" in the MD A section of this
report.  Occidental s common stock was held by 37,280 stockholders of
record at December 31, 2009, and by approximately 463,000 additional
stockholders whose shares were held for them in street name or nominee
accounts.  The common stock is listed and traded principally on the
New York Stock Exchange.  The quarterly financial data, which are
included in this report after the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, set forth the range of trading prices for the common stock as
reported on the composite tape of the New York Stock Exchange and quarterly
dividend information. 

      The
quarterly dividends declared on the common stock were $0.32 per share for the
first quarter of 2009 and $0.33 for the last three quarters of 2009 ($1.31 for
the year).  On February 11, 2010, a quarterly dividend of $0.33 per
share ($1.32 on an annualized basis) was declared on the common stock, payable
on April 15, 2010 to stockholders of record on March 11, 2010.  The
declaration of future dividends is a business decision made by the Board of
Directors from time to time, and will depend on Occidental s financial condition
and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. 

Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation
Plans 

      All of
Occidental's equity compensation plans for its employees and non-employee
directors, pursuant to which options, rights or warrants or other equity awards
may be granted, have been approved by the stockholders.  Occidental
has established several Plans that allow it to issue stock-based awards in the
form of options, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, performance
stock awards, total shareholder return incentives and dividend
equivalents.  These include the 1995 Incentive Stock Plan (1995 ISP),
2001 Incentive Compensation Plan (2001 ICP), Phantom Share Unit Awards Plan and
the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (2005 LTIP).  No further awards will
be granted under the 1995 ISP and 2001 ICP; however, certain 1995 ISP and 2001
ICP award grants were outstanding at December 31, 2009.  An aggregate
of 66 million shares of Occidental common stock are reserved for issuance under
the 2005 LTIP. 

      The
following is a summary of the shares reserved for issuance as of December 31,
2009, pursuant to outstanding options, rights or warrants or other equity awards
granted under Occidental s equity compensation plans: 

a) 

Number
      of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants
      and rights 

b) 

Weighted-average
      exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights 

c) 

Number
      of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity
      compensation plans (excluding securities in column (a)) 

2,412,576 

$30.40 

54,208,930
      * 

*   Includes,
      with respect to:  

the
      1995 Incentive Stock Plan, 5,602 shares reserved for issuance pursuant to
      deferred stock unit awards; 

the
      2001 Incentive Compensation Plan, 11,931 shares reserved for issuance
      pursuant to deferred stock unit awards and 1,197 shares reserved for
      issuance as dividend equivalents on deferred stock unit awards;
      and 

the
      2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, 636,034 shares at maximum payout level
      (318,017 at target level) reserved for issuance pursuant to outstanding
      performance stock awards, 61,405 shares reserved for issuance pursuant to
      restricted stock unit awards and 2,952,779 shares at maximum payout level
      (1,700,390 at target level) reserved for issuance pursuant to total
      stockholder return incentive awards. 

Of
      the 50,533,604 shares that are not reserved for issuance under the 2005
      Long-Term Incentive Plan, approximately 43.2 million shares are available
      for issuance after giving effect to the provision of the plan that each
      award, other than options and stock appreciation rights, must be counted
      against the number of shares available for issuance as three shares for
      every one share covered by the award.  Subject to this share
      count requirement, not more than the approximate 43.2 million shares may
      be issued or reserved for issuance for options, rights, warrants and other
      forms of stock compensation. 

8 

Share Repurchase Activities 

      Occidental s
share repurchase activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 were as
follows: 

(a) 

Purchased
      from the trustee of Occidental's defined contribution savings
      plan. 

(b) 

Occidental
      has had a 95 million share authorization in place since 2008 for its share
      repurchase program; however, the program does not obligate Occidental to
      acquire any specific number of shares and may be discontinued at any
      time. 

Performance Graph 

      The
following graph compares the yearly percentage change in Occidental s cumulative
total return on its common stock with the cumulative total return of the
Standard   Poor's 500 Stock Index (S P 500) and with that of
Occidental s peer group over the five-year period ended on December 31,
2009.  The graph assumes that $100 was invested in Occidental common
stock, in the stock of the companies in the S P 500 and in a portfolio of
the common stock of the peer group companies weighted by their relative market
values each year and that all dividends were reinvested. 

      Occidental's
peer group consists of Anadarko Petroleum Corporation, Apache Corporation, BP
p.l.c., Chevron Corporation, ConocoPhillips, Devon Energy Corporation,
ExxonMobil Corporation, Royal Dutch Shell plc and Occidental. 

9 

Item 6   
                         Selected Financial
Data   

(a) 

See
      the MD A section of this report and the Notes to Consolidated
      Financial Statements for information regarding acquisitions and
      dispositions, discontinued operations and other items affecting
      comparability. 

(b) 

Represent
      amounts attributable to common stock after deducting noncontrolling
      interest amounts of $51 million in 2009, $116 million in 2008, $75 million
      in 2007, $111 million in 2006 and $74 million in 2005. 

(c) 

Represent
      amounts attributable to common stock after deducting noncontrolling
      interest amounts. 

(d) 

Amounts
      have been adjusted to reflect a two-for-one stock split in the form of a
      stock dividend to stockholders on August 1, 2006. 

(e) 

Market
      capitalization is calculated by multiplying the year-end total shares of
      common stock outstanding, net of shares held as treasury stock, by the
      year-end   closing
      stock price. 

Item 7 and 7A 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations (MD A) 
 
      Strategy 

      General 

      In this
report, "Occidental" refers to Occidental Petroleum Corporation (OPC), and/or
one or more entities in which it owns a majority voting interest
(subsidiaries).  Occidental's principal businesses consist of three
industry segments operated by OPC's subsidiaries and affiliates.  The
oil and gas segment explores for, develops, produces and markets crude oil,
including natural gas liquids (NGLs) and condensate, as well as natural
gas.  The chemical segment (OxyChem) manufactures and markets basic
chemicals, vinyls and other chemicals.  The midstream, marketing and
other segment (midstream and marketing) gathers, treats, processes, transports,
stores, purchases and markets crude oil (including NGLs and condensate), natural
gas, carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) and
power.  It also trades around its assets, including pipelines and
storage capacity, and trades commodities and securities.  Unless
otherwise indicated hereafter, discussion of oil or oil and liquids refers to
crude oil, NGLs and condensate.  In addition, discussions of oil and
gas production or volumes, in general, refer to sales volumes unless context
requires or it is indicated otherwise. 

      Occidental
aims to generate superior total returns to stockholders using the following
strategies: 

Focus
      on large,  long -lived oil and gas
      assets with long-term growth potential; 

Maintain
       financial  discipline and a strong
      balance sheet; 

Manage
      the  chemical  segment to provide cash
      in excess of normal capital expenditures;
and 

10 

Manage
      the  midstream  and marketing segment
      to generate returns in excess of Occidental's cost of
    capital. 

Occidental
prefers to own large, long-lived "legacy" oil and gas assets, like those in
California and the Permian Basin, that tend to have enhanced secondary and
tertiary recovery opportunities and economies of scale that lead to
cost-effective production.  Management expects such assets to
contribute substantially to earnings and cash flow after invested
capital. 

      At
Occidental, maintaining financial discipline means investing capital in projects
that management expects will generate above-cost-of-capital returns through
their life cycle.  Occidental expects to use most of any excess cash
flow after capital expenditures to enhance stockholders' returns through
dividend increases, acquisition opportunities and potential stock
repurchases. 

      The
chemical business is not managed with a growth strategy but to generate cash
flow exceeding its normal capital expenditure requirements.  Capital
is employed to operate the chemical business in a safe and environmentally sound
way, to sustain production capacity and to focus on projects designed to improve
the competitiveness of these assets.  Asset acquisitions may be
pursued when they are expected to enhance the existing core chlor-alkali and
polyvinyl chloride (PVC) businesses or take advantage of other specific
opportunities. 

      The
midstream and marketing segment is managed to generate returns on capital
invested in excess of Occidental's cost of capital.  In order to
generate these returns, the segment provides low cost services to other segments
as well as to third parties and operates gas plants, oil, gas and CO 2  pipeline
systems and storage facilities.  In addition, the marketing and
trading group markets Occidental's and third-party oil and gas, trades around
the midstream and marketing segment assets and engages in commodities and
securities trading.  Capital is employed to operate those facilities
in a safe and environmentally sound way, to sustain or, where appropriate,
increase operational capacity and to improve the competitiveness of Occidental's
assets. 

Oil
and Gas 

Segment
Earnings 

        ($
millions) 

The oil
and gas business seeks to add new oil and natural gas reserves at a pace ahead
of production while minimizing costs incurred for finding and
development.  The oil and gas business implements this strategy within
the limits of the overall corporate strategy primarily by: 

Adding
      commercial reserves through a combination of focused exploration and
      development programs conducted in Occidental's core areas, which are the
      United States, the Middle East/North Africa and Latin
    America; 

Pursuing
      commercial opportunities in core areas to enhance the  development 
      of mature fields with large volumes of remaining oil by applying
      appropriate technology and advanced reservoir-management practices;
      and 

Maintaining
      a disciplined approach to acquisitions and divestitures with an emphasis
      on transactions at attractive
prices. 

Over the
past several years, Occidental has strengthened its asset base within its core
areas.  Occidental has invested in, and disposed of, assets with the
goal of raising the average performance and potential of its
assets. 

      Occidental
has continued to make capital contributions and investments in the Middle
East/North Africa and expects continued production growth in the Mukhaizna
project in Oman.  In April 2009, Occidental and its partners signed a
Development and Production Sharing Agreement (DPSA) with the National Oil and
Gas Authority of Bahrain for further development of the Bahrain
Field.  The DPSA became effective in December 2009.  In the
first quarter of 2010, Occidental and its partners signed a technical service
contract with the government of Iraq to develop the Zubair Field in
Iraq. 

      In
addition, in the past several years Occidental has acquired the operations of
Vintage Petroleum, Inc. (Vintage) and other properties in California, the
Piceance Basin and the Permian Basin.  In July 2009, Occidental
announced a significant discovery of oil and gas in Kern County,
California. 

      At the end
of 2009, the Elk Hills area and Permian properties' proved reserves made up 56
percent of Occidental's proved oil reserves and 35 percent of its proved gas
reserves.  On a barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) basis, these proved
reserves accounted for 51 percent of Occidental's proved reserves.  In
2009, the combined production from these assets was approximately 45 percent of
total Occidental production. 

11 

Chemical 

Segment
Earnings 

      ($
millions) 

OxyChem s
strategy is to be a low-cost producer in order to maximize its cash flow
generation.  OxyChem concentrates on the chlorovinyls chain beginning
with chlorine, which is co-produced with caustic soda, both of which are
marketed to third parties.  In addition, chlorine, together with
ethylene, is converted through a series of intermediate products into
PVC.  OxyChem's focus on chlorovinyls permits it to maximize the
benefits of integration and allows it to take advantage of economies of
scale. 

Midstream,
Marketing and Other 

      Segment
Earnings 

($
millions) 

The
midstream and marketing segment is managed to generate returns on capital
invested in excess of Occidental's cost of capital.  In order to
generate these returns, the segment provides low cost services to other segments
as well as to third parties and operates gas plants, oil, gas and CO 2  pipeline
systems and storage facilities.  In addition, the marketing and
trading group markets Occidental's and third-party oil and gas, trades around
the midstream and marketing segment assets and engages in commodities and
securities trading.   In marketing its
own production and third party    purchases,
Occidental attempts to maximize realized prices and margins and limit credit
risk exposure.  In commodities and securities trading, Occidental
seeks to generate gains using net long positions. 

Key
Performance Indicators 

      General 

      Occidental
seeks to ensure that it meets its strategic goals by continuously measuring its
success in maintaining below-average debt levels, delivering returns in excess
of its cost of capital and achieving top-quartile performance compared to its
peers in: 

Total  return to
    stockholders; 

Return
      on equity (ROE); 

Return
      on capital employed (ROCE); and 

Other
      segment-specific measures such as per-unit profit, production cost, cash
      flow, and finding and development cost, reserves replacement percentage
      and others. 

During the
three-year period from 2007 to 2009, Occidental increased its dividend rate by
50 percent while its stock price increased by 67 percent. 

      Occidental
has delivered high levels of return even after considering the challenging 2009
business environment and while increasing stockholders' equity by 7 percent for
2009 and 49 percent for the three-year period from 2007 to 2009. 

(a) 

The
      ROE and ROCE for 2009 were calculated by dividing Occidental's 2009 net
      income attributable to common stock (taking into account cost of capital
      for ROCE) by its average equity and capital employed, respectively, during
      2009. 

(b) 

The
      three-year average ROE and ROCE were calculated by dividing Occidental's
      average net income attributable to common stock (taking into account cost
      of capital for ROCE) over the three-year period 2007-2009 by its average
      equity and capital employed, respectively, over the same
      period. 

Debt
Structure 

      Occidental s
year-end 2009 total debt-to-capitalization ratio declined to 9 percent from 16
percent at the end of 2005.  During that time, Occidental has reduced
its debt by 7 percent while increasing its stockholders' equity by 89
percent. 

      Since
2007, Occidental s long-term senior unsecured debt has been rated A by Fitch
Ratings.  In 2008, Occidental's long-term senior unsecured debt was
upgraded from A- to A by Standard and Poor's Ratings Services, from A3 to A2 by
Moody's Investors Service and from A(low) to A by DBRS.  A security
rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, may be subject
to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization and
should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 

12 

Oil and Gas Segment 

      Business
Environment 

      Oil and
gas prices are the major variables that drive the industry s short and
intermediate term financial performance.  Average oil prices were
lower in 2009 than 2008, caused by a steep price decline in the last half of
2008, which resulted in significantly lower average prices in the first half of
2009 followed by steadily increasing prices in the second half of 2009 that did
not reach the highs of 2008.  West Texas Intermediate (WTI) was $79.36
and $44.60 per barrel as of December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.  The average WTI spot market price for 2009 was $61.80
per barrel compared with $99.65 per barrel in 2008.  Occidental s
realized price for crude oil as a percentage of average WTI prices was
approximately 91 percent and 89 percent for 2009 and 2008,
respectively.  Prices and differentials can vary significantly, even
on a short-term basis, making it impossible to predict realized prices with a
reliable degree of certainty. 

      The
average New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) domestic natural gas price in 2009
decreased approximately 53 percent from 2008.  For 2009, the gas spot
price averaged $4.20 per thousand cubic feet (Mcf) compared with $9.01 per Mcf
for 2008, but was $5.57 per Mcf as of December 31, 2009. 

Business
Review 

      All sales,
production and reserves volumes are net to Occidental unless otherwise
specified. 

Worldwide
Sales Volumes  

(thousands
BOE/day) 

In April
2009, Occidental and its partners signed a DPSA with the National Oil and Gas
Authority of Bahrain for further development of the Bahrain
Field.  The DPSA became effective in December 2009.  A joint
operating company formed by Occidental and its partners will serve as operator
for the project. 

      In 2009,
Occidental acquired various additional properties in California and the Permian
Basin. 

Production-Sharing
Contracts (PSC) 

      Occidental
conducts its operations in Bahrain, Libya, Oman, Yemen and Qatar, including
Dolphin, under PSCs.  Under such contracts, Occidental receives a
share of production and reserves to recover its costs and an additional share
for profit.  In addition, Occidental's share of production and
reserves from operations in Long Beach, California and certain contracts in
Latin America are subject to contractual arrangements similar to a
PSC.  These contracts do not transfer any right of ownership to
Occidental and reserves reported from these arrangements are based on
Occidental s economic interest as defined in the
contracts.  Occidental s share of production and reserves from these
contracts decreases when product prices rise and increases when prices
decline.  Overall, Occidental s net economic benefit from these
contracts is greater when product prices are higher. 

United
States 

United
States 

        1.  Permian 

        2.  Elk
Hills and other interests 

        3.  Long
Beach 

       4.  Midcontinent Gas

Permian 

        Occidental's
Permian production is diversified across a large number of producing areas in
the Permian Basin.  The Permian Basin extends throughout southwest
Texas and southeast New Mexico and is one of the largest and most active oil
basins in the United States, with the entire basin accounting for approximately
19 percent of the total United States crude oil
production.  Occidental is the largest producer of crude oil in the
Permian Basin with an approximate 16-percent net share of the total
production.  Occidental also produces and processes natural gas and
NGLs in the Permian Basin. 

        In the
past several years, Occidental increased its Permian interests through various
property acquisitions.  Occidental's total share of Permian oil and
gas production was approximately 201,000 BOE per day in 2009.  At the
end of 2009, Occidental's Permian properties had 1.1 billion BOE in proved
reserves. 

        Starting
in 2010, Permian non-associated gas assets will be included as part of the
Midcontinent Gas operations.  Permian's production is expected to
shift from 84 percent liquids and 16 percent gas, to 89 percent liquids and 11
percent, mostly associated, gas. 

        Occidental s
interests in Permian offer additional development and exploitation
potential.  During 2009, Occidental drilled approximately 120 wells on
its operated properties and participated in additional wells drilled on
third-party-operated properties.  Occidental conducted development
activity on six CO 2  projects
during 2009.  Occidental also focused on improving the performance of
existing wells.  Occidental had an average of 71 equivalent well
service units working in the Permian area during 2009 performing well
maintenance and workovers. 

13 

Approximately
58 percent of Occidental s Permian oil production is from fields that actively
employ the application of CO 2  flood
technology, an enhanced oil recovery (EOR) technique.  This technique
involves injecting CO 2  into oil
reservoirs where it acts as a solvent, causing the oil to flow more freely into
producing wells.  These CO 2  flood
operations make Occidental a world leader in the application of this
technology. 

        Occidental s
policy regarding tertiary recovery is to capitalize costs, such as CO 2 , when they
support development of proved reserves and otherwise generally expense these
costs.  In 2009, Occidental capitalized approximately 50 percent of
the costs of CO 2  injected
in Permian.  Over the years, as the CO 2  program
matures, a smaller portion of the injected CO 2  results in
the development of proved reserves.  In 2010, Occidental will begin
expensing 100 percent of the CO 2  injected,
in order to better reflect the current nature of the CO 2 
program.  In 2009, $69 million of CO 2  costs were
capitalized. 

California 

        Occidental's
California operations consist of holdings in the Elk Hills area, the Wilmington
Field in Long Beach and other interests in the Ventura, San Joaquin and
Sacramento basins. 

        Occidental's
interest in the Elk Hills area includes the Elk Hills oil and gas field in the
southern portion of California s San Joaquin Valley, which it operates with an
approximate 78-percent interest, along with other adjacent
properties.  The Elk Hills Field is the largest producer of gas and
NGLs in California.  During 2009, Occidental continued to perform
infill drilling, field extensions and recompletions identified by advanced
reservoir characterization techniques, resulting in 124 new wells being drilled
and 388 wells being worked over. 

        In July
2009, Occidental announced that it had made a significant discovery of oil and
gas in Kern County, California.  The bulk of the discovery s producing
zones are conventional oil and gas bearing formations with approximately
two-thirds of the discovery believed to be natural gas.  At the end of
2009, Occidental was producing approximately 32,000 gross BOE per day from 15
wells in this multi-pay zone discovery area.  Occidental s interest in
the discovery area is approximately 80 percent. 

        Occidental
also owns interests in California properties in the Ventura, San Joaquin and
Sacramento basins, other than Elk Hills. The combined properties produce oil and
gas from more than 50 fields. 

        Occidental
holds approximately 1.3 million acres of net fee minerals and leaseholds in
California, which have been acquired in the last few years. 

        Occidental
conducts both onshore and offshore operations in the Wilmington
Field.  Occidental's share of production and reserves from these
properties is subject to contractual arrangements similar to a PSC. 

        Occidental's
total share of oil and gas production in California was approximately 135,000
BOE per day in 2009.  At the end of 2009, Occidental's properties in
California had 780 million BOE in proved reserves. 

Midcontinent
Gas 

        Occidental
owns 737,000 acres in a large concentration of gas reserves, production
interests and royalty interests in Kansas and Oklahoma.  Occidental
also has over 935,000 net acres in western Colorado, New Mexico, Texas and Utah
where it completed a total of 23 wells in 2009. 

        In 2009,
Occidental s Midcontinent Gas operations produced approximately 41,000 BOE per
day.  At December 31, 2009, proved reserves for these operations
totaled 191 million BOE. 

        Starting
in 2010, Occidental will combine most of its gas production in the midcontinent
region of the United States into a single business unit called Midcontinent Gas,
in order to take advantage of common development methods and production
optimization opportunities.  This business unit will include the
Hugoton Field, the Piceance Basin as well as the bulk of Permian non-associated
gas assets, which were included as part of Permian for 2009.  As a
result, Midcontinent Gas  production is expected to be approximately 75 percent
gas and 25 percent liquids. 

Middle
East/North Africa 

Middle
East/North Africa 

        1.  Qatar 

        2.  Yemen 

        3.  Oman 

        4.  Libya 

        5.  Bahrain 

        6.  United
Arab Emirates 

Qatar 

        Occidental
operates three offshore projects in Qatar:  Idd El Shargi North Dome
(ISND) and Idd El Shargi South Dome (ISSD), with a 100-percent working interest
in each, and Al Rayyan (Block 12), with a 92.5-percent working
interest.  In addition, Occidental also holds interests in
Dolphin. 

        In 2008,
Occidental received approval from the Government of Qatar for the third phase of
field development of the ISND Field focusing on continued development of mature
reservoirs, while further delineating and developing less mature
reservoirs.  Drilling under this phase is expected to be completed
during 2010. 

14 

Occidental's
investment in Dolphin, which was acquired in 2002, consists of two separate
economic interests through which Occidental owns (i) a 24.5-percent undivided
interest in the assets and liabilities associated with a DPSA with the
Government of Qatar to develop and produce natural gas and NGLs in Qatar s North
Field through mid-2032, with a provision to request a 5-year extension; and (ii)
a 24.5-percent interest in the stock of Dolphin Energy Limited (Dolphin Energy),
which is discussed further in "Midstream, Marketing and Other Segment   Pipeline
Transportation." 

        Occidental's
share of production from all of its operations in Qatar was approximately
105,000 BOE per day in 2009. 

Yemen 

        Occidental
owns contractual interests in three producing blocks in Yemen, including a
38-percent working interest in the Masila Field, which expires in December 2011,
a 40.4-percent interest, including an 11.8-percent interest held in an
unconsolidated entity, in the East Shabwa Field,  and a 75-percent
working interest in Block S-1, which Occidental operates. 

        Occidental's
share of production from the Yemen properties was 29,000 BOE per day in
2009. 

Oman 

        In Oman,
Occidental is the operator of Block 9 and Block 27, with a 65-percent working
interest in each, Block 53, with a 45-percent working interest, and Block 62,
with a 48-percent working interest. 

        Occidental
and its partners signed a 30-year PSC for the Mukhaizna Field (Block 53) with
the Government of Oman in 2005.  In September 2005, Occidental assumed
operations of the Mukhaizna Field.  By the end of 2009, Occidental had
drilled over 665 new wells and continued implementation of a major pattern steam
flood project.  As of year-end 2009, the exit rate of gross daily
production was over 10 times higher than the production rate in September 2005,
reaching nearly 90,000 BOE per day.  Occidental plans to steadily
increase production through continued expansion of the steam flood
project. 

        The term
for Block 9 is through December 2015, with a potential 10-year
extension.  The term for Block 27 is through September
2035.  Occidental and its partners began production in June
2006. 

        Occidental
was awarded Block 62 in November 2008 under a 20-year contract, subject to
declaration of commerciality prior to December 2010.  Block 62 is
comprised of both development and exploration opportunities targeting gas and
condensate resources. 

        Occidental's
share of production from the Oman properties was approximately 43,000 BOE per
day in 2009, and proved reserves totaled 173 million BOE as of December 31,
2009. 

Libya 

        In 2005,
Occidental signed an agreement with the Libyan National Oil Corporation (NOC)
that allowed it to re-enter the country and participate in exploration and
production operations in the Sirte Basin, which it left in 1986 pursuant to
United States law.  This re-entry agreement allowed Occidental to
return to its Libyan operations on generally the same terms in effect when
activities were suspended. 

        In June
2008, Occidental and its partner signed new agreements with NOC to upgrade its
existing contracts for up to 30 years. 

        Occidental's
share of production during 2009 was approximately 7,000 BOE per
day. 

Bahrain 

        In
December 2009, Occidental and its partners began operating the Bahrain
Field.  Occidental has a 48-percent interest in the joint
venture.  Gross oil production from the Bahrain Field is expected to
more than double to approximately 75,000 barrels per day within five years and
grow to a peak level of more than 100,000 barrels per day
thereafter.  Gas production capacity is expected to grow from 1.7
billion cubic feet (Bcf) per day in late 2009 to over 2.5 Bcf per day under the
field development plan. 

United
Arab Emirates 

        Occidental
conducts a majority of its Middle East business development activities through
its office in the United Arab Emirates, which also provides various support
functions for Occidental s Middle East/North Africa oil and gas
operations. 

Latin
America 

Latin
      America 

                  1.  Argentina 

                  2.  Bolivia 

                  3.  Colombia 

Argentina 

          The
Argentina assets consist of 23 concessions located in the San Jorge Basin in
southern Argentina and the Cuyo and Neuqu n Basins in western Argentina.
Occidental operates 19 of the concessions with a 100-percent working
interest. 

          During
2009, Occidental drilled 107 new wells and performed a number of recompletions
and well repairs. Occidental plans to increase production through drilling and
waterflooding. 

          Occidental's
concessions in Argentina expire at various dates through
2017.  Occidental is pursuing opportunities to extend the terms of its
concessions in the Santa Cruz province of Argentina.  However, in the
event Occidental is unsuccessful in obtaining these extensions, Occidental will
reevaluate its operations and investments in the country, which may result in
decreases in future investment capital allocated to its operations in Argentina
and further impairments of its existing investments.  In the fourth
quarter of 2009, 

15 

Occidental
recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $170 million for the impairment of
certain other Argentine producing properties. 

          Occidental s
share of production from Argentina was approximately 42,000 BOE per day in
2009. 

Bolivia 

          In 2006,
Occidental acquired working interests in four blocks located in the Tarija,
Chuquisaca and Santa Cruz regions of Bolivia as part of the Vintage
acquisition.  At the end of 2006, Occidental signed two new operation
contracts with commercial terms that provide Bolivia with greater operational
control and control over the commercialization of hydrocarbons.  These
contracts went into effect in May 2007. 

Colombia 

          Occidental
is the operator under four contracts within the Llanos Norte Basin: the Cravo
Norte, Rond n, Cosecha, and Chipir n Association
Contracts.  Occidental s working interests under these four contracts
are 39 percent, 44 percent, 53 percent and 61 percent,
respectively.  Colombia's national oil company, Ecopetrol, operates
the Ca o Lim n-Cove as oil pipeline and marine-export terminal.  The
pipeline transports oil produced from the Llanos Norte Basin for export to
international markets. 

          Occidental
also holds a 48-percent working interest in the La Cira-Infantas Field, which is
located in the Middle-Magdalena Basin.  Production from the field is
transported by Ecopetrol through its pipeline and sold to
Ecopetrol. 

          Occidental's
share of 2009 production from its Colombia operations was approximately 39,000
BOE per day. 

Proved
Reserves 

          For
further information regarding Occidental's proved reserves, see "Supplemental
Oil and Gas Information" following the "Financial Statements." 

          Occidental
had proved reserves at year-end 2009 of 3,225 million BOE, as compared with the
year-end 2008 amount of 2,977 million BOE.  Proved reserves consisted
of 73 percent oil and 27 percent natural gas.  Proved developed
reserves represented approximately 77 percent of Occidental s total proved
reserves at year-end 2009 compared to 74 percent at year-end 2008. 

Proved
Reserve Additions 

          Occidental's
total proved reserve additions from all sources were 483 million BOE in
2009.  The total additions were as follows: 

Occidental's
ability to add reserves depends on the success of improved recovery, extension
and discovery projects, each of which depend on reservoir characteristics,
technology improvements, oil and natural gas prices, as well as capital and
operating costs.  Many of these factors are outside of management s
control, and will affect whether or not these historical sources of proved
reserve additions continue at similar levels. 

Revisions
of Previous Estimates 

          In 2009,
Occidental s revisions of previous estimates provided net additions of 58
million BOE to proved reserves.  The additions included a net positive
effect from PSCs in the Middle East/North Africa.  Domestic positive
oil price-related revisions were more than offset by negative gas price-related
revisions, as well as other changes in the United States and
Argentina. 

          Oil price
changes affect proved reserves recorded by Occidental.  For example,
when oil prices increase, less oil volume is required to recover costs under
PSCs, which would result in a reduction of Occidental s share of proved
reserves.  Conversely, when oil prices drop, Occidental s share of
proved reserves would increase for these PSCs.  Oil and natural gas
price changes also tend to affect the economic lives of proved reserves,
primarily in domestic properties, in a manner partially offsetting the PSC
reserve volume changes.  Apart from the effects of product prices,
Occidental believes its approach to interpreting technical data regarding proved
oil and gas reserves makes it more likely that future proved reserve revisions
will be positive rather than negative. 

Improved
Recovery 

          In 2009,
Occidental added proved reserves of 173 million BOE through EOR activities,
mainly in California, Permian and Oman, through the Mukhaizna
project.  These improved recovery additions were attributable to EOR
techniques, such as CO 2 , water and
steam injection programs, as well as Occidental s ongoing development
programs. 

Extensions
and Discoveries 

          Occidental
also obtains reserve additions from extensions and discoveries, which are
dependent on successful exploitation programs.  In 2009, extensions
and discoveries added 92 million BOE of proved reserves, mainly in the Kern
County, California discovery area, with smaller additions
internationally. 

Purchases
and Divestitures of Proved Reserves 

          In 2009,
Occidental added proved reserves of 160 million BOE (there were no divestitures
of proved reserves in 2009), largely consisting of the Bahrain Field
redevelopment project and several domestic acquisitions in California and the
Permian Basin.  Occidental continues to add reserves through
acquisitions when properties are available at prices it deems
reasonable.  As market conditions change, the available supply of
properties may increase or decrease accordingly. 

16 

Proved
Undeveloped Reserves 

          In 2009,
Occidental had proved undeveloped reserves additions of 232 million BOE from
improved recovery, extensions and discoveries and purchases, primarily in
Bahrain, California, Oman, mainly related to the Mukhaizna project, Colombia and
Permian.   These proved undeveloped reserve additions were offset
by reserves transfers of 161 million BOE to the proved developed category as a
result of the 2009 development programs.  Permian, Oman, Colombia and
California accounted for approximately 80 percent of the reserves transfers from
proved undeveloped to proved developed in 2009.  Proved undeveloped
reserve additions will require incurrence of additional future development
costs. 

Reserves
Evaluation and Review Process 

          Occidental s
estimates of proved reserves and associated future net cash flows as of December
31, 2009 were made solely by Occidental s technical personnel and are the
responsibility of management.  The current Senior Director of
Worldwide Reserves and Reservoir Engineering is responsible for overseeing the
preparation of reserve estimates, including the internal audit and review of
Occidental's oil and gas reserves data.  The Senior Director has over
28 years of experience in the upstream sector of the exploration and production
business, and has held various assignments in North America, Asia and
Europe.  He is a three-time past Chair of the Society of Petroleum
Engineers Oil and Gas Reserves Committee.  He is an American
Association of Petroleum Geologists (AAPG) Certified Petroleum Geologist and the
current Chair of the AAPG Committee on Resource Evaluation.  He is a
member of the Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers, the Colorado School of
Mines Potential Gas Committee and the UNECE Expert Group on Resource
Classification.  The Senior Director has Bachelor of Science and
Master of Science degrees in geology from Emory University in
Atlanta. 

          Occidental
has a Corporate Reserves Review Committee (Reserves Committee) consisting of
senior corporate officers, to monitor and review Occidental's oil and gas
reserves.  The Reserves Committee reports to the Audit Committee of
Occidental's Board of Directors periodically during the year.  Since
2003, Occidental has retained Ryder Scott Company, L.P. (Ryder Scott),
independent petroleum engineering consultants, to review its annual oil and gas
reserve estimation processes. 

          In 2009,
Ryder Scott compared Occidental s methods and procedures for estimating oil and
gas reserves to generally accepted industry standards and reviewed certain
pertinent facts interpreted and assumptions made in estimating the proved
reserves volumes, preparing the economic evaluations and determining reserves
classifications.  Ryder Scott reviewed the specific application of
such methods and procedures for selected oil and gas properties considered to be
a valid representation of Occidental s total reserves portfolio.  In
2009, Ryder Scott reviewed approximately 20 percent of Occidental s proved oil
and gas reserves.  Since being   engaged in
2003, Ryder Scott has reviewed the specific application of Occidental s reserve
estimation methods and procedures for approximately 71 percent of Occidental s
proved oil and gas reserves.  Management retains Ryder Scott to
provide objective third-party input on its methods and procedures and to gather
industry information applicable to Occidental s reserve estimation and reporting
process.  Ryder Scott has not been engaged to render an opinion as to
the reasonableness of reserves quantities reported by Occidental. 

          Based on
its reviews, including the data, technical processes and interpretations
presented by Occidental, Ryder Scott has concluded that the overall procedures
and methodologies utilized in determining the proved reserves for the reviewed
properties as estimated by Occidental are reasonable and consistent with
generally accepted industry standards and comply with current Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) standards. 

Industry
Outlook 

          The
petroleum industry is highly competitive and subject to significant volatility
due to numerous market forces affecting supply and demand.  Worldwide
oil prices experienced a high degree of volatility during 2009 and
2008.    WTI settled at $145.31 per barrel on July 3, 2008,
up from $95.98 per barrel as of December 31, 2007, and then dropped to $44.60
per barrel at the end of 2008.  WTI generally increased in 2009,
settling at $79.36 per barrel as of December 31, 2009.  While many
factors precipitated these price fluctuations, the worldwide drop in demand for
oil caused by the global economic slowdown appears to have been the major
contributor to the significant and steady drop in oil prices during the second
half of 2008 through the first half of 2009. 

          Oil prices
will continue to be affected by global demand, which is generally a function of
global economic conditions, as well as the actions of OPEC, other significant
producers and governments.  These factors make it impossible to
predict the future direction of oil prices reliably.  Occidental
continued to adjust to economic conditions by reducing its operating expenses
and adjusting capital expenditures with the goal of keeping returns well above
its cost of capital. 

          Natural
gas prices have continued to stay at relatively low levels in 2009, especially
in the U.S. midcontinent region.  In the fourth quarter of 2009,
Occidental started a program to complete approximately 130 previously drilled
wells in this region.  Occidental is also planning to implement a
drilling program in 2010 with two rigs.  An additional rig may be
deployed later in the year depending on market conditions.  Occidental
believes that it needs a larger margin between natural gas prices and
development and production costs to substantially increase its drilling activity
in the U.S. midcontinent region. 

          While
local supply and demand fundamentals, as well as government regulations and
availability of transportation capacity from producing areas, are decisive
factors affecting domestic natural gas prices over the long term, futures prices
can be volatile, making it impossible to forecast prices reliably. 

17 

Chemical Segment 

          Business
Environment 

          The
decrease in 2009 chemical segment earnings reflects lower prices and volumes for
chlorine, caustic soda, PVC and vinyl chloride monomer (VCM) due to the global
economic slowdown, partially offset by lower feedstock and energy
costs. 

Business
Review 

          Basic
Chemicals 

          During
2009, domestic industry production of chlorine declined by 11 percent compared
to 2008 as a result of poor global economic conditions, primarily in the
manufacturing and housing sectors.  U.S. demand and pricing for
caustic soda collapsed early in 2009 as record domestic prices attracted more
imports and the alumina and pulp and paper industries reduced caustic
consumption due to deteriorating demand for their products.  Chlorine
prices increased steadily throughout the year as industry participants attempted
to reverse shrinking margins.  Late in 2009, supply and demand became
more balanced, evidenced by the stabilization of both chlorine and caustic
pricing. 

Vinyls 

          Domestic
demand for PVC in 2009 was 7 percent below 2008 as a result of the continued
slump in housing, commercial construction and automotive
industries.  This decline was largely offset by exports, which were up
33 percent in 2009 over 2008, resulting in only a one-percent reduction in
overall PVC demand.  Compared to 2008, PVC prices decreased and
chlorine costs increased to more than offset a 42-percent decrease in ethylene
costs. 

Industry
Outlook 

          Future
performance will depend on the recovery of domestic housing and construction
markets, global economic recovery, the competitiveness of the U.S. in world
markets and feedstock and energy pricing. 

Basic
Chemicals 

          Demand for
basic chemical products is expected to improve slightly in 2010 as the U.S.
housing, automotive and durable goods sectors begin to recover from the
significant drop in demand experienced in 2008 and 2009.  Margins are
anticipated to be similar to 2009 as pricing for chlorine is expected to remain
strong while pricing for caustic soda is projected to begin to improve as the
economy improves.  However, operating rates will continue to be
challenged throughout the year if demand remains suppressed in chlorine, vinyls
and various chlorine-derivative markets. 

Vinyls 

          Industry-wide
PVC operating rates are expected to be higher in 2010 as a result of improving
economic conditions, both domestically and globally.  In addition,
exports are expected to remain strong due to raw material cost advantages
compared to other vinyls-producing regions. 

Midstream, Marketing and Other Segment 

          Business
Environment 

          The
midstream and marketing segment earnings decrease reflects lower marketing
income and lower margins in the gas processing business. 

Business
Review 

          Oil
and Gas Marketing and Trading 

          The
marketing and trading group markets substantially all of Occidental s oil and
gas production.  Marketing and trading earnings are affected primarily
by margins in oil and gas transportation and storage programs.  In
2009, the marketing and trading group earnings declined due to lower marketing
margins and lower trading income. 

          On
December 31, 2009, Occidental completed the acquisition of interests in Phibro
LLC (Phibro), primarily a commodities investor, from Citigroup Inc. 

Gas
Processing Plants and CO 2  Fields and
Facilities 

          Occidental
processes its and third-party domestic wet gas to extract NGLs and other gas
by-products, including CO 2 , and
deliver dry gas to pipelines.  Margins result from the difference
between inlet costs of gas and market prices for NGLs. 

          In 2008,
Occidental signed an agreement for a third party to construct a gas processing
plant that will provide CO 2  for
Occidental s EOR projects in the Permian Basin.  Occidental will own
and operate the new facility, which is approximately half completed with the
remaining portions expected to be completed through 2010 and
2011.  Occidental is in the process of arranging for a third party to
provide transportation capacity from the plant to its Permian Basin production
areas. 

          Occidental s
2009 earnings from these operations declined due to lower gas processing
margins. 

Pipeline
Transportation 

          Margin and
cash flow from pipeline transportation operations mainly reflect volumes
shipped.  Dolphin Energy owns and operates a 230-mile-long, 48-inch
natural gas pipeline (Dolphin Pipeline), which transports dry natural gas from
Qatar to the UAE.  Through its 24.5-percent interest in Dolphin
Energy, the Dolphin Pipeline investment contributes significantly to
Occidental's pipeline transportation results.  Production of natural
gas and NGLs under the DPSA from Qatar's North Field began during mid-2007 and,
since mid-2008, production has been at full capacity of the Dolphin
plant.  The Dolphin Pipeline has a capacity to transport up to 3.2 Bcf
of natural gas per day and currently transports approximately 2 Bcf per
day.  Demand for natural gas in the UAE and Oman has grown and Dolphin
Energy s customers have requested additional gas supplies.  To help
fulfill this growing demand, Dolphin Energy will continue to pursue an agreement
to secure an additional supply of gas from Qatar. 

          In 2009,
Occidental purchased additional interests in the General Partner of Plains
All-American Pipeline, L.P.   Occidental now owns approximately
22 percent of this entity.  Occidental s 2009 pipeline transportation
earnings improved due to increased earnings from the Dolphin Pipeline investment
and domestic pipeline operations. 

18 

Power
Generation Facilities 

          Earnings
from power generation facilities represent the sales of steam and power to
affiliates and third parties.  Occidental s 2009 earnings from these
facilities decreased due to lower margins between the selling prices of power
and steam and the cost of gas used in their production. 

Industry
Outlook 

          The
pipeline transportation and power generation businesses are expected to remain
relatively stable.  The gas processing plant operations, which
generate most of their income by separating and marketing liquids from wet gas,
could have volatile results depending on NGL prices, which cannot be
predicted.  Generally, higher NGL prices result in higher
profitability.  The trading and marketing business is inherently
volatile.  The Phibro acquisition will likely add to this
volatility.  Based on its framework of controls and risk management
systems, Occidental does not expect the volatility of these operations to be
significant to the company as a whole. 

Segment Results of Operations 

          Net income
and income from continuing operations represent amounts attributable to common
stock. 

          Segment
earnings generally exclude income taxes, interest income, interest expense,
environmental remediation expenses, unallocated corporate expenses and
discontinued operations, but include gains and losses from dispositions of
segment assets and income from the segments' equity
investments.  Seasonality is not a primary driver of changes in
Occidental's consolidated quarterly earnings during the year. 

The
following table sets forth the sales and earnings of each operating segment and
corporate items: 

In
millions, except per share amounts 

(a) 

Intersegment
      sales are generally made at prices approximately equal to those that the
      selling entity is able to obtain in third-party transactions and eliminate
      upon consolidation. 

(b) 

Oil
      and gas segment earnings, income from continuing operations and net income
      represent amounts attributable to common stock after deducting
      noncontrolling interest amounts of $51 million, $116 million and $75
      million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(c) 

The
      2009 amount includes a $170 million fourth quarter pre-tax charge for
      asset impairments of certain Argentine producing properties and an $8
      million pre-tax charge for the termination of rig
      contracts.  The 2008 amount includes a $599 million pre-tax
      charge for asset impairments, including undeveloped acreage in Argentina
      and Yemen and domestic producing properties, and a $58 million pre-tax
      charge for the termination of rig contracts.  The 2007 amount
      includes an after-tax gain of $412 million from the sale of Occidental's
      interest in a Russian joint venture, an after-tax gain of $112 million
      from certain litigation settlements, a pre-tax gain of $103 million from
      the sale of exploration properties, a pre-tax gain of $35 million from the
      sale of miscellaneous domestic oil and gas interests and a $74 million
      pre-tax charge for exploration impairments. 

(d) 

The
      2008 amount includes a pre-tax charge of $90 million for plant closure and
      impairments. 

(e) 

The
      2007 amount includes $167 million of interest charges to redeem or
      purchase and retire various debt issues. 

(f) 

The
      2009 and 2008 amount includes tax benefits of $87 million and $148 million
      resulting from relinquishment of exploration properties,
      respectively. 

(g) 

The
      2009 amount includes a $40 million pre-tax charge related to severance and
      a $15 million pre-tax charge for railcar leases.  The 2007
      amount includes a $326 million pre-tax gain from the sale of Occidental s
      remaining investment in Lyondell Chemical Company (Lyondell), a $47
      million pre-tax charge for a plant closure and related environmental
      remediation reserve and a $25 million pre-tax severance
      charge. 

(h) 

In
      June 2007, Occidental completed an exchange of oil and gas interests in
      Horn Mountain with BP p.l.c. (BP) for oil and gas interests in the Permian
      Basin and a gas processing plant in Texas.  Occidental also sold
      its oil and gas interests in Pakistan to BP.  The 2007 amount
      includes after-tax income of $326 million related to these transactions
      and their operating results. 

19 

Oil
and Gas 

The
following tables set forth the sales volumes and production of oil and liquids
and natural gas per day for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 2009.  The differences between the sales volumes and production
per day are generally due to the timing of shipments at Occidental s
international locations where product is loaded onto tankers.  Sale at
these locations is not recognized until title passes. 

( See
footnotes following the Average Sales Price table)  

( See
footnotes following the Average Sales Price table)  

(a) 

Excludes
      sales and production volumes related to the noncontrolling interest in a
      Colombian subsidiary. 

(b) 

Natural
      gas volumes have been converted to BOE based on energy content of
      six Mcf of gas to one barrel of oil. 

(c) 

Includes
      dry hole write-offs and lease impairments of $212 million in 2009, $325
      million in 2008 and $247 million in 2007. 

20 

Oil and
gas segment earnings in 2009 were $4.7 billion, compared to $10.7 billion in
2008.  The decrease in segment earnings reflects lower average crude
oil and natural gas prices, partially offset by increased oil and gas
production, lower operating costs and lower production and ad valorem
taxes.  Oil and gas segment earnings in 2009 included a $170 million
pre-tax charge for impairments of certain Argentine producing properties and an
$8 million pre-tax charge for the termination of rig contracts. 

          Oil and
gas segment earnings in 2008 were $10.7 billion, compared to $8.0 billion in
2007.  The increase in segment earnings reflects higher average oil
and natural gas prices and increased oil and gas volumes, which were offset by
higher operating expenses and production taxes and increased depreciation,
depletion and amortization (DD A) rates.  Oil and gas segment
earnings in 2008 included pre-tax foreign exchange gains of $74 million, a
pre-tax charge of $599 million for asset impairments consisting of undeveloped
acreage in Argentina and Yemen and impairments of producing properties in the
U.S. and a pre-tax charge of $58 million for termination of rig
contracts. 

          Average
production costs for 2009, excluding taxes other than on income, were $10.37 per
BOE, compared to the average 2008 production cost of $12.13 per
BOE.  The decreases resulted from lower maintenance and workover
costs. 

Chemical 

Chemical
segment earnings were $389 million for the twelve months of 2009 compared to
$669 million for the twelve months of 2008.  The decrease in 2009
results reflects lower volumes and prices for chlorine, caustic soda, PVC and
VCM due to the economic slowdown, partially offset by lower feedstock and energy
costs. 

          Chemical
segment earnings in 2008 were $669 million, compared to $601 million in
2007.  The increase in segment earnings was primarily due to higher
caustic soda margins, partially offset by lower volumes in chlorine, caustic
soda and PVC and a $90 million charge for plant closure and
impairments. 

Midstream,
Marketing and Other 

Midstream
and marketing segment earnings in 2009 were $235 million, compared to $520
million in 2008.  The 2009 results reflect lower marketing income and
lower margins in gas processing. 

          The
increase in segment earnings in 2008, compared to 2007, reflects higher income
from the Dolphin Pipeline and higher margins in gas processing. 

Significant Items Affecting Earnings 

          The
following table sets forth, for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and
2007, the effects of significant transactions and events affecting Occidental s
earnings that vary widely and unpredictably in nature, timing and
amount: 

Significant
Items Affecting Earnings 

(a) 

Amounts
      shown after tax. 

Taxes 

          Deferred
tax liabilities, net of deferred tax assets of $1.5 billion, were $2.8 billion
at December 31, 2009.  The current portion of the deferred tax assets
of $280 million is included in prepaid expenses and other.  The
deferred tax assets, net of allowances, are expected to be realized through
future operating income and reversal of temporary differences. 

Worldwide
Effective Tax Rate 

          The
following table sets forth the calculation of the worldwide effective tax rate
for income from continuing operations: 

21 

Occidental s
2009 worldwide tax rate was 40 percent, which is comparable to 2008 and
2007. 

Consolidated Results of Operations 

          The
changes in the following components of Occidental's results of operations are
discussed below: 

Selected
Revenue and Other Income Items 

The
decrease in net sales in 2009, compared to 2008, was caused by lower oil and gas
and chemical product prices, partially offset by higher volumes.  Of
the price-related decrease in sales, approximately 90 percent was associated
with oil and gas.  The increase in net sales in 2008, compared to
2007, reflects higher average oil and natural gas prices and higher oil and gas
volumes, including increased volumes from Dolphin, offset by lower volumes from
PSCs and the new Libya contract. 

          The
decrease in interest, dividends and other income in 2009, compared to 2008,
reflects lower interest income due to lower cash balances and interest
rates.  Interest, dividends and other income in 2007 included gains
related to litigation settlements of $112 million. 

          Gains on
disposition of assets, net in 2007, included a $326 million gain from the sale
of 21 million shares of Lyondell, a $412 million gain from the sale of
Occidental s interest in a Russian joint venture and a gain of $103 million from
the sale of exploration properties in West Africa. 

Selected
Expense Items 

Cost of
sales decreased in 2009, compared to 2008, mainly due to lower chemicals volumes
and lower feedstock and energy costs, which collectively represented
approximately 73 percent of the decrease.  The remaining portion of
the decrease was due to lower oil and gas and midstream and marketing operating
costs. 

          Cost of
sales increased in 2008, compared to 2007, due to higher oil and natural gas
volumes, as well as higher maintenance, workover, field operating and feedstock
costs. 

          Selling,
general and administrative and other operating expenses increased in 2009,
compared to 2008, due to lower foreign exchange gains, increased severance
expense and idling fees for rigs. 

          Selling,
general and administrative and other operating expenses decreased in 2008,
compared to   2007, due
to a decrease in equity compensation expense and foreign exchange gains of $91
million, which were partially offset by rig contract termination charges of $58
million. 

          DD A
increased in 2009, compared to 2008, due to higher DD A rates and higher
volumes from Argentina, Oman and the U.S. 

          DD A
increased in 2008, compared to 2007, due to the increase in sales volumes,
mainly from Dolphin, and higher DD A rates caused by the cost of new proved
reserve additions being higher than the existing average rates, especially in
Latin America and the Middle East/North Africa.  The 2008 amount also
included a charge of $42 million for domestic asset impairments. 

          Taxes,
other than on income, decreased mainly due to lower production taxes in Permian
and Midcontinent Gas resulting from lower prices in 2009, compared to 2008, and
lower ad valorem taxes due to decreased property values in 2009, compared to
2008. 

          The
increase in taxes other than on income in 2008, compared to 2007, reflects
higher production taxes resulting from higher net sales as well as an increase
in ad valorem taxes due to increases in oil and gas property
values. 

          Exploration
expense decreased in 2009, compared to 2008, due to lower international
exploration activities, partially offset by a higher success rate in California
exploration activities. 

          Exploration
expense decreased in 2008, compared to 2007, due to decreases in Colombia and
Middle East/North Africa.  The 2007 amount included expenses for
exploration properties in West Africa, which were sold in the third quarter of
2007. 

          Charges
for impairments in 2009 related to certain Argentine producing properties, while
these charges in 2008 related to undeveloped acreage in Argentina and Yemen and
chemical plant closure and impairments. 

          Interest
and debt expense, net increased in 2009, compared to 2008, due to higher debt
levels during 2009 compared to 2008, partially offset by lower interest
rates. 

          Interest
and debt expense in 2007 included debt repayment expenses of $167
million.  Excluding the effect of the 2007 debt repayment charges,
interest expense decreased in 2008, compared to 2007, due to lower average debt
levels and lower effective interest rates. 

Selected
Other Items 

Provision
for domestic and foreign income taxes decreased in 2009, compared to 2008, due
to lower income before taxes in 2009.  The worldwide effective tax
rate in 2009 was comparable to 2008.  The increase in the provision
for income taxes in 2008, compared to 2007, was due to higher income before
taxes in 2008.  The 2008 worldwide effective tax rate was comparable
to 2007. 

          The
increase in income from equity investments in 2008, compared to 2007, was due to
higher income from the Dolphin Pipeline. 

22 

Discontinued
operations in 2007 included after-tax income of $326 million for the operations
of Horn Mountain and Pakistan that were sold as part of a series of transactions
with BP as well as the results of operations of these assets before
disposal. 

          Net income
attributable to noncontrolling interest decreased in 2009, compared to 2008, due
to lower net income in Colombia resulting from lower oil prices. 

Consolidated Analysis of Financial Position   

          The
changes in the following components of Occidental s balance sheet are discussed
below: 

Selected
Balance Sheet Components 

Assets 

          See
"Liquidity and Capital Resources   Cash Flow Analysis" for discussion
about the change in cash and cash equivalents. 

          The
increase in trade receivables, net was due to higher oil prices and oil and gas
volumes in the fourth quarter of 2009, compared to the fourth quarter of 2008,
and the year-end 2009 Phibro acquisition. The increase in marketing and trading
assets and other was due to the Phibro acquisition, partially offset by
decreases in tax receivables and other assets. 

          Investments
in unconsolidated entities increased due to the purchase of additional interests
in the General Partner of Plains All-American Pipeline, L.P. 

          The
increase in PP E, net was due to capital expenditures and the acquisitions
of oil and gas properties in California and the Permian Basin, partially offset
by DD A. 

Liabilities
and Stockholders' Equity 

          The
accounts payable balance at year-end 2009, compared to 2008, reflected higher
oil and gas purchase activity in the marketing and trading operations and the
Phibro acquisition, partially offset by decreases in payables for oil and gas
properties which were   attributable
to lower spending levels at the end of 2009, compared to 2008.  The
increase in accrued liabilities was primarily due to the Phibro
acquisition.  The decrease in domestic and foreign income taxes was
due to a lower tax liability in 2009, compared to 2008, resulting from lower
taxable income. 

          The
increase in long-term debt, net was due to the issuance of $750 million of notes
due in 2016, partially offset by amounts due in 2010 reclassified to current
maturities of long-term debt.  The increase in deferred and other
domestic and foreign income taxes was due to the additions to PP E resulting
from the capital program, which led to a higher difference between book and tax
basis of these properties.  The increase in stockholders  equity
reflected net income for 2009, partially offset by dividend
payments. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

          At
December 31, 2009, Occidental had approximately $1.2 billion in cash on
hand.  Income and cash flows are largely dependent on oil and gas
prices and sales volumes.  Occidental believes that cash on hand and
cash generated from operations will be sufficient to fund its operating needs,
planned capital expenditures, dividends and debt payments. 

          Occidental
has a $1.5 billion bank credit facility (Credit Facility) through September
2012, which adjusts to $1.4 billion in September 2011.  The Credit
Facility provides for the termination of the loan commitments and requires
immediate repayment of any outstanding amounts if certain events of default
occur or if Occidental files for bankruptcy.  Up to $350 million of
the Credit Facility is available in the form of letters of
credit.  Occidental did not draw down any amounts under the Credit
Facility during 2009.  Available but unused lines of committed bank
credit totaled approximately $1.5 billion at December 31, 2009. 

          In July
2009, Occidental repaid its $600 million debt associated with Dolphin Energy's
debt. 

          Occidental
has a shelf registration statement that facilitates issuing senior debt
securities.  In May 2009 under this shelf, Occidental issued $750
million of 4.125-percent senior unsecured notes due 2016, receiving $740 million
of net proceeds.  Interest on the notes will be payable semi-annually
in arrears on June 1 and December 1 of each year. 

          None of
Occidental's committed bank credits contain material adverse change clauses or
debt ratings triggers that could restrict Occidental's ability to borrow under
these lines.  Occidental's credit facilities and debt agreements do
not contain ratings triggers that could terminate bank commitments or accelerate
debt in the event of a ratings downgrade.  Borrowings under the Credit
Facility bear interest at various benchmark rates, including LIBOR, plus a
margin based on Occidental's senior debt ratings.  Additionally,
Occidental paid an annual facility fee of 0.05 percent in 2009 on the total
commitment amount, which was based on Occidental's senior debt
ratings. 

          As of
December 31, 2009, under the most restrictive covenants of its financing
agreements, Occidental had substantial capacity for additional unsecured
borrowings, the payment of cash dividends and other distributions on, or
acquisitions of, Occidental stock. 

23 

Cash
Flow Analysis 

The most
important sources of the decrease in operating cash flow in 2009, compared to
2008, were lower average oil and natural gas prices, which were partially offset
by increased oil and gas production volumes.  The lower operating cash
flows also reflect lower volumes and prices for chlorine, caustic soda, PVC and
VCM, lower marketing income and lower margins in the gas processing
business.  In 2009, compared to 2008, Occidental s global realized
crude oil prices decreased by 37 percent and realized natural gas prices
decreased by 57 percent in the U.S., where approximately 69 percent of
Occidental s natural gas was produced.  Oil accounted for
approximately 76 percent of Occidental's 2009
production.  Occidental s oil and gas sales volumes increased by 7
percent in 2009, compared to 2008, due to increased production in California,
Midcontinent Gas, Latin America and Oman. 

          The most
important sources of the increase in operating cash flow in 2008, compared to
2007, were higher average oil and natural gas prices and, to a lesser extent,
higher oil and gas sales volumes.  The increased operating cash flow
also reflects the higher caustic soda margins and higher margins in gas
processing in 2008 in the chemical and midstream and marketing businesses,
respectively.  In 2008, compared to 2007, Occidental s global realized
crude oil prices increased by 36 percent and realized natural gas prices
increased by 23 percent in the U.S., where approximately 70 percent of
Occidental's natural gas was produced.  Occidental s oil and gas sales
volumes increased by 5 percent in 2008, compared to 2007, mainly due to the
increase in production from Dolphin. 

          Decreases
in oil and gas production costs, purchased goods and services, energy costs and
production and ad valorem taxes in 2009, compared to 2008, partially offset the
effect of decreases in realized oil and natural gas prices in
2009.  Increases in costs of producing oil and gas, such as purchased
goods and services, and higher utility, maintenance, workover and gas plant
costs and higher production and ad valorem taxes in 2008, compared to 2007,
partially offset the effect of increases in realized oil and natural gas prices
and volumes in 2008.  Other cost elements, such as certain labor costs
and overhead, are not significant drivers of changes in cash flow because they
are relatively stable within a narrow range over the short to intermediate
term.  Changes in these costs had a much smaller effect on cash flow
than the lower oil and gas prices and higher oil and natural gas sales
volumes. 

          Most of
Occidental's major chemical product prices, especially caustic soda, PVC and VCM
decreased in 2009, compared to 2008, which resulted in lower
margins.  The decrease in NGL prices in 2009, compared to 2008,
resulted in lower gas processing margins in the midstream and marketing
segment.  Most of Occidental s major chemical product prices,
especially caustic soda, increased in 2008, compared to 2007, which resulted in
higher margins.  The increase in NGL prices in 2008, compared to 2007,
resulted in higher gas processing margins in the midstream and marketing
segment.  In general, the overall impact of the chemical product price
and gas processing margin decreases on cash flow in 2009 was less significant
than the decreases in oil and gas prices because the chemical and midstream and
marketing segments' earnings and cash flow were significantly smaller than those
for the oil and gas segment. 

          Other
non-cash charges to income in 2009, 2008 and 2007 included stock incentive plan
amortization, deferred compensation and asset retirement obligation
accruals.   The 2009 amount also included
a $170 million pre-tax charge for impairments of certain Argentine producing
properties.   The 2008 amount included a charge of $557 million
for asset impairments of undeveloped acreage in Argentina and Yemen, a $58
million charge for termination of rig contracts and a $90 million charge for
chemical plant closure and impairments. 

Occidental s
capital spending for 2010 is expected to be about $4.3 billion and will be
focused on ensuring Occidental's returns remain well above its cost of capital
given current oil and gas prices and the cost environment. 

          The
estimated increase in capital expenditures in 2010 from $3.6 billion in 2009
will be allocated to the oil and gas segment.  Of this increase,
California and Iraq will each receive about a quarter, about 15 percent will go
to Bahrain and 10 percent to Midcontinent Gas. 

          The 2009
other investing activities, net amount included $1.7 billion in cash payments
for the acquisitions of businesses and assets, including acquisitions of various
oil and gas properties in California and the Permian Basin for approximately
$610 million, interests in Phibro for approximately $370 million, additional
interests in the General Partner of Plains All-American Pipeline, L.P. for
approximately $330 million and various other acquisitions totaling approximately
$320 million.  The 2009 amount also included foreign signing bonuses
of approximately $190 million, the bulk of which was scheduled under the 2008
Libya agreements. 

          The 2008
other investing activities, net amount included cash payments for the
acquisitions of oil and gas interests from Plains Exploration   Production
Company for $2.7 billion, an interest in Joslyn Oil Sands Project in Northern
Alberta, Canada for approximately $500 million, interests in the General Partner
of Plains All-American Pipeline, L.P. for approximately $330 million and
approximately $700 million of various other acquisitions.  The 2008
amount also included the first payment of the signature bonus under the Libya
agreements of $450 million. 

          The 2007
other investing activities, net amount included cash proceeds of $672 million
from the sale of 21 million shares of Lyondell, $485 million received from the
sale of Occidental s interest in a Russian joint 

24 

venture,
$509 million from the sale of other businesses and properties, and $250 million
from the sale of auction rate securities.  The 2007 amount also
included cash paid for the acquisitions of various oil and gas and chemical
interests, a Permian Basin common carrier pipeline system and a gas processing
plant in Texas totaling $1.4 billion. 

          Commitments
at December 31, 2009, for major fixed and determinable capital expenditures
during 2010 and thereafter were approximately $1.2
billion.  Occidental expects to fund these commitments and capital
expenditures with cash from operations. 

The 2009
amount included net proceeds of $740 million from the issuance of 4.125-percent
senior unsecured notes due 2016 and Occidental s payment of $600 million of debt
associated with Dolphin Energy. 

          The 2008
amount included the net proceeds of $985 million from the issuance of $1 billion
of 7-percent senior unsecured notes due 2013.  The 2008 amount also
included $1.5 billion of cash paid for repurchases of 19.8 million shares of
Occidental s common stock at an average price of $76.33 per share. 

          The 2007
amount included net debt payments of $1.2 billion, including the repurchase of
various debt issues under cash tender offers and the redemption of Vintage
notes.  The 2007 amount also included $1.1 billion of cash paid for
repurchases of 20.6 million shares of Occidental s common stock at an average
price of $54.75 per share. 

          Occidental
also paid common stock dividends of $1.1 billion in 2009, $940 million in 2008
and $765 million in 2007. 

Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements  

          In the
course of its business activities, Occidental pursues a number of projects and
transactions to meet its core business objectives.  Occidental also
makes commitments on behalf of unconsolidated entities.  Some of these
projects, transactions and commitments (off-balance-sheet arrangements) are not
reflected on Occidental s balance sheets, as a result of the application of
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) to their specific
terms.  The following is a description of the business purpose and
nature of these off-balance-sheet arrangements. 

Dolphin 

          See "Oil
and Gas Segment   Business Review   Qatar" for further
information about Dolphin. 

          In July
2009, Dolphin Energy refinanced its debt on a limited-recourse
basis.  Occidental provided guarantees limited to certain political
and other events.  The fair value of these guarantees was
immaterial.  At December 31, 2009, the notional amount was
approximately $300 million, which represented a substantial majority of
Occidental's total guarantees. 

Leases 

          Occidental
has entered into various operating-lease agreements, mainly for railcars, power
plants, manufacturing facilities and office space.  Occidental leases
assets when leasing offers greater operating   flexibility.  Lease
payments are expensed mainly as cost of sales.  For more information,
see "Contractual Obligations." 

Guarantees 

          Occidental
has guaranteed certain equity investees' debt and has entered into various other
guarantees including performance bonds, letters of credit, indemnities,
commitments and other forms of guarantees provided by Occidental to third
parties, mainly to provide assurance that OPC or its subsidiaries and affiliates
will meet their various obligations (guarantees).  At December 31,
2009, Occidental's guarantees were not material and a substantial majority of
these amounts were represented by the Dolphin guarantees discussed
above. 

Contractual Obligations 

          The table
below summarizes and cross-references certain contractual obligations that are
reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2009 and/or
disclosed in the accompanying Notes. 

(a) 

Excludes
      unamortized debt discount and interest expense on the debt.  As
      of December 31, 2009, interest on long-term debt totaling $944 million is
      payable in the following years (in millions): 2010 - $157, 2011 and 2012 -
      $285, 2013 and 2014 - $177, 2015 and thereafter - $325. 

(b) 

Includes
      certain accrued liabilities and obligations under postretirement benefit
      and deferred compensation plans. 

(c) 

Amounts
      have not been reduced for sublease rental income. 

(d) 

Amounts
      represent long-term agreements to purchase goods and services used in the
      normal course of business that are enforceable and legally
      binding.  Some of these arrangements involve take-or-pay
      commitments but they do not represent debt
      obligations.  Long-term purchase contracts are discounted at a
      5.9-percent discount rate. 

(e) 

Amounts
      exclude certain oil purchase obligations related to the marketing and
      trading activities for which there are no minimum amounts. 

Lawsuits, Claims, Commitments, Contingencies and Related
Matters 

          OPC or
certain of its subsidiaries are named, in the normal course of business, in
lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that seek, among other things,
compensation for alleged personal injury, breach of contract, property damage,
punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses, or injunctive or declaratory
relief.  OPC or certain of its subsidiaries also have been named in
proceedings under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability 

25 

Act
(CERCLA) and similar federal, state, local and foreign environmental
laws.  These environmental proceedings seek funding or performance of
remediation and, in some cases, compensation for alleged property damage,
punitive damages, civil penalties and injunctive relief; however, Occidental is
usually one of many companies in these proceedings and has to date been
successful in sharing response costs with other financially sound
companies.  With respect to all such lawsuits, claims and proceedings,
including environmental proceedings, Occidental accrues reserves when it is
probable a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably
estimated.  Environmental matters are further discussed under the
caption "Environmental Liabilities and Expenditures" below. 

          Lawsuits
filed in Nicaragua against OxyChem and other companies that once manufactured or
used the pesticide dibromochloropropane (DBCP) claim damages of several billion
dollars for alleged personal injuries.  In the opinion of management,
the claims against OxyChem are without merit because, among other things, the
DBCP it manufactured was never sold or used in Nicaragua.  Nicaraguan
courts have entered judgments of approximately $900 million against four
defendants, including OxyChem, which, if affirmed and ultimately enforced, would
be shared equally among the defendants.  When the plaintiffs attempted
to enforce one judgment in Miami, the federal district court granted summary
judgment in favor of OxyChem and refused to enforce the judgment, finding the
Nicaraguan court lacked personal jurisdiction because OxyChem DBCP was not used
in Nicaragua, OxyChem did not have sufficient contacts with Nicaragua, and other
grounds for dismissal.  OxyChem has no assets in Nicaragua and, in the
opinion of management, no such Nicaraguan judgment would be enforceable in the
United States. 

          During the
course of its operations, Occidental is subject to audit by tax authorities for
varying periods in various federal, state, local and foreign tax
jurisdictions.  While the audits for taxable years through 2007 have
concluded for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the 2008 and 2009 taxable years
are currently under audit by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service pursuant to its
compliance assurance program.  Foreign government tax authorities are
in various stages of auditing Occidental, and income taxes for taxable years
from 2000 through 2009 remain subject to examination in certain
jurisdictions.  During the course of tax audits, disputes have arisen
and other disputes may arise as to facts and matters of law. 

          Occidental
has entered into agreements providing for future payments to secure terminal and
pipeline capacity, drilling rigs and services, electrical power, steam and
certain chemical raw materials.  Occidental has certain other
commitments under contracts, guarantees and joint ventures, including purchase
commitments for goods and services at market-related prices and certain other
contingent liabilities.  Occidental's capital spending estimate for
2010 is about $4.3 billion.  At December 31, 2009, commitments for
major fixed and determinable capital expenditures during 2010 and thereafter
were approximately $1.2 billion. 

Occidental
has indemnified various parties against specified liabilities that those parties
might incur in the future in connection with purchases and other transactions
that they have entered into with Occidental.  These indemnities
usually are contingent upon the other party incurring liabilities that reach
specified thresholds.  As of December 31, 2009, Occidental is not
aware of circumstances that it believes would reasonably be expected to lead to
future indemnity claims against it in connection with these transactions that
would result in payments materially in excess of reserves. 

          The
ultimate amount of losses and the timing of any such losses that OPC and its
subsidiaries may incur resulting from currently outstanding lawsuits, claims and
proceedings, audits, commitments, contingencies and related matters cannot be
determined reliably at this time.  If these matters were ultimately
resolved unfavorably at amounts substantially exceeding Occidental s reserves,
an outcome not currently expected, it is possible that such outcome could have a
material adverse effect upon Occidental s consolidated financial position or
results of operations.  However, after taking into account reserves,
management does not expect the ultimate resolution of any of these matters to
have a material adverse effect upon Occidental s consolidated financial position
or results of operations. 

Environmental Liabilities and Expenditures 

          Occidental s
operations are subject to stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws and
regulations relating to improving or maintaining environmental
quality.  Occidental s environmental compliance costs have generally
increased over time and could continue to rise in the
future.  Occidental factors environmental expenditures for its
operations into its business planning process as an integral part of producing
quality products responsive to market demand. 

Environmental
Remediation 

          The laws
that require or address environmental remediation, including CERCLA and similar
federal, state, local and foreign laws, may apply retroactively and regardless
of fault, the legality of the original activities or the current ownership or
control of sites.  OPC or certain of its subsidiaries participate in
or actively monitor a range of remedial activities and government or private
proceedings under these laws with respect to alleged past practices at
operating, closed and third-party sites.  Remedial activities may
include one or more of the following:  investigation involving
sampling, modeling, risk assessment or monitoring; cleanup measures including
removal, treatment or disposal; or operation and maintenance of remedial
systems.  The environmental proceedings seek funding or performance of
remediation and, in some cases, compensation for alleged property damage,
punitive damages, civil penalties, injunctive relief and government oversight
costs. 

          As of
December 31, 2009, Occidental participated in or monitored remedial activities
or proceedings at 168 sites.  The following table presents
Occidental s environmental remediation reserves as of December 31, 2009, 2008
and 2007, grouped as environmental 

26 

remediation
sites listed or proposed for listing by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
on the CERCLA National Priorities List (NPL sites) and three categories of
non-NPL sites   third-party sites, Occidental-operated sites and closed or
non-operated Occidental sites. 

As of
December 31, 2009, Occidental s environmental reserves exceeded $10 million each
at 14 of the 168 sites described above, and 118 of the sites had reserves from
$0 to $1 million each. 

          As of
December 31, 2009, two landfills in western New York owned by Occidental
accounted for 70 percent of its reserves associated with NPL
sites.  Maxus Energy Corporation has retained the liability and
indemnified Occidental for 17 of the remaining NPL sites. 

          As of
December 31, 2009, Maxus has also retained the liability and indemnified
Occidental for 16 of the 81 third-party sites.  Two of the remaining
65 third-party sites   a former copper mining and smelting operation in
Tennessee and an active refinery in Louisiana where Occidental reimburses the
current owner and operator for certain remedial activities   accounted for 54
percent of Occidental s reserves associated with these sites. 

          Five sites
  chemical plants in Kansas, Louisiana and New York and two groups of oil and
gas properties in the southwestern United States   accounted for 71 percent of
the reserves associated with the Occidental-operated sites.  Five
other sites   former chemical plants in Delaware, Michigan, Tennessee and
Washington and a closed coal mine in Pennsylvania   accounted for 75 percent of
the reserves associated with closed or non-operated Occidental
sites. 

          The
following table shows environmental reserve activity for the past three
years: 

Occidental
expects to expend funds corresponding to about half of the current environmental
reserves over the next four years and the balance over the subsequent ten or
more years.  Occidental believes its range of reasonably possible
additional loss beyond those liabilities recorded for environmental remediation
at the sites described above could be up to $375 million.  See
"Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  Environmental Liabilities and
Expenditures" for additional information. 

Environmental
Costs 

          Occidental s
environmental costs, some of which include estimates, are shown below for each
segment for the years ended December 31: 

Operating
expenses are incurred on a continual basis.  Capital expenditures
relate to longer-lived improvements in currently operating
properties.  Remediation expenses relate to existing conditions from
past operations. 

          Occidental
presently estimates capital expenditures for environmental compliance of
approximately $120 million for 2010. 

Foreign Investments 

          Many of
Occidental s assets are located outside of North America.  At December
31, 2009, the carrying value of Occidental s assets in countries outside North
America aggregated approximately $11.7 billion, or approximately 26 percent of
Occidental s total assets at that date.  Of such assets, approximately
$7.5 billion are located in the Middle East/North Africa and approximately $4.2
billion are located in Latin America.  For the year ended December 31,
2009, net sales outside North America totaled $5.9 billion, or approximately 38
percent of total net sales. 

27 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

          The
process of preparing financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires the
management of Occidental to make informed estimates and judgments regarding
certain items and transactions.  Changes in facts and circumstances or
discovery of new information may result in revised estimates and judgments, and
actual results may differ from these estimates.  Occidental considers
the following to be its most critical accounting policies and estimates that
involve management's judgment.  There has been no material change to
these policies over the past three years.  The selection and
development of these critical accounting policies and estimates have been
discussed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. 

Oil
and Gas Properties 

          Occidental
uses the successful efforts method to account for its oil and gas
properties.  Under this method, costs of acquiring properties, costs
of drilling successful exploration wells and development costs are
capitalized.  The costs of exploratory wells are initially capitalized
pending a determination of whether proved reserves have been
found.  If proved reserves have been found, the costs of exploratory
wells remain capitalized.  Otherwise, the costs of the related
exploratory wells are charged to expense.  In some cases, a
determination of proved reserves cannot be made at the completion of drilling,
requiring additional testing and evaluation of the
wells.  Occidental's practice is to expense the costs of such
exploratory wells if a determination of proved reserves has not been made within
a 12-month period after drilling is complete. 

          Annual
lease rentals and geological, geophysical and seismic costs are expensed as
incurred. 

           Proved oil and gas reserves (as defined in the
Securities and Exchange Commission's Regulation S-X, Rule 4-10(a)) are those
quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering
data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically
producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing
economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations prior to the
time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence
indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether
deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the
estimation.   Occidental has no proved oil and gas reserves for
which the determination of commercial viability is subject to the completion of
major additional capital expenditures. 

          Several
factors could change Occidental s proved oil and gas reserves.  For
example, Occidental receives a share of production from PSCs to recover its
costs and generally an additional share for profit.  Occidental s
share of production and reserves from these contracts decreases when oil prices
rise and increases when oil prices decline.  Overall, Occidental s net
economic benefit from these contracts is greater at higher oil
prices.  In other contractual arrangements, lower product prices may
lead to a situation where production of proved reserves becomes
uneconomical.  Estimation of future production and development costs
is also subject to change partially due to factors beyond Occidental's control,
such as energy costs and inflation or deflation of oil field service
costs.  These factors, in turn, could lead to changes in the quantity
of proved reserves.  Additional factors that could result in a change
of proved reserves include initial production decline rates differing from those
estimated when the proved reserves were initially
recorded.  Occidental s revisions to proved reserves were positive in
2009 and negative in both 2008 and 2007.  The revisions in 2009
included a net positive effect from PSCs in the Middle East/North
Africa.  Domestic positive oil price-related revisions in 2009 were
more than offset by negative gas price-related revisions, as well as other
changes in the U.S. and Argentina.  In prior years, revisions were
largely due to price changes between years.  Excluding revisions
related to price and PSCs, negative revisions in 2009, 2008 and 2007 amounted to
approximately four percent, less than one percent and three percent of total
proved reserves as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.  Occidental's revisions to proved reserves have been
positive for seven of the last ten years. 

          The most
significant impact of a change in Occidental's oil and gas reserves would be on
the DD A rate, which is determined using the unit-of-production
method.  For example, a 5-percent increase or decrease in the amount
of oil and gas reserves would change the DD A rate by approximately $0.50
per barrel, which would increase or decrease pre-tax income by $118 million
annually.  The change in the DD A rate over the past three years
due to revisions of previous proved reserve estimates has been
immaterial. 

          A portion
of the carrying value of Occidental s oil and gas properties is attributable to
unproved properties.  At December 31, 2009, the net capitalized costs
attributable to unproved properties were $1.9 billion.  The unproved
amounts are not subject to DD A or impairment until a determination is made
as to the existence of proved reserves.  As exploration and
development work progresses, if reserves on these properties are proved,
capitalized costs attributable to the properties will be subject to depreciation
and depletion.  If the exploration and development work were to be
unsuccessful, or management's plans changed with respect to these properties, as
a result of economic, operating or contractual conditions, the capitalized costs
of the related properties would be expensed in the period in which the
determination was made.  The timing of any writedowns of these
unproved properties, if warranted, depends upon management's plans, the nature,
timing and extent of future exploration and development activities and their
results.  Occidental believes its current plans and exploration and
development efforts will allow it to realize its unproved property
balance.  Additionally, Occidental performs impairment tests with
respect to its proved properties generally when prices decline other than
temporarily, reserve estimates change significantly or other significant events
occur that may impact the ability to realize the recorded asset
amounts.  Impairment tests incorporate a number of assumptions
involving expectations of future cash flows, which can change significantly over
time.  These assumptions include estimates of future product prices,
which Occidental bases on forward price curves, estimates of oil and gas
reserves and estimates of future expected operating and development
costs.  Any impairment loss would be calculated as the excess of the
asset's net book value over its estimated fair value. 

          Fluctuations
in commodities prices and production and development costs could cause
management's plans to change with respect to unproved properties
and 

28 

could
cause the carrying values of proved properties to be
unrealizable.  Such circumstances could result in impairments in the
carrying values of proved or unproved properties or both. 

          For
example, if the margins in the U.S. midcontinent region do not improve,
Occidental may not substantially increase its development projects in this
region and some of its investments may become impaired. 

          Occidental
is pursuing opportunities to extend the terms of its current concessions in the
Santa Cruz province of Argentina.  However, in the event Occidental is
unsuccessful in obtaining these extensions, Occidental will reevaluate its
operations and investments in the country, which may result in decreases in
future investment capital allocated to its operations in Argentina and further
impairments of its existing investments. 

Chemical
Assets 

          The most
critical accounting policy affecting Occidental s chemical assets is the
determination of the estimated useful lives of the
PP E.  Occidental's chemical plants are depreciated using either
the unit-of-production or straight-line method, based upon the estimated useful
lives of the facilities.  The estimated useful lives of Occidental s
chemical assets, which range from three years to 50 years, are also used for
impairment tests.  The estimated useful lives used for the chemical
facilities are based on the assumption that Occidental will provide an
appropriate level of annual expenditures to ensure productive capacity is
sustained.  Without these continued expenditures, the useful lives of
these plants could decrease significantly.  Other factors that could
change the estimated useful lives of Occidental s chemical plants include
sustained higher or lower product prices, which are particularly affected by
both domestic and foreign competition, demand, feedstock costs, energy prices,
environmental regulations and technological changes. 

          Occidental
performs impairment tests on its chemical assets whenever events or changes in
circumstances lead to a reduction in the estimated useful lives or estimated
future cash flows that would indicate that the carrying amount may not be
recoverable, or when management s plans change with respect to those
assets.  Any impairment loss would be calculated as the excess of the
asset's net book value over its estimated fair value. 

          Occidental's
net PP E for the chemical segment is approximately $2.6 billion and its
depreciation expense for 2010 is expected to be approximately $277
million.  The most significant impact of a decrease in the estimated
useful lives of Occidental's chemical plants would be on depreciation
expense.  For example, a reduction in the remaining useful lives of
one year would increase depreciation and reduce pre-tax earnings by
approximately $30 million per year. 

Midstream,
Marketing and Other Assets 

          The most
critical accounting policies affecting Occidental s midstream and marketing
assets involve accounting for derivative instruments and the determination of
the estimated useful lives of the PP E. 

          Derivatives
are carried at fair value and on a net basis when a legal right of offset exists
with the same counterparty.  Occidental applies hedge accounting when
transactions meet specified criteria for such treatment.  If a
derivative does not qualify or is not designated and documented as a hedge, any
fair value gains or losses are recognized in earnings in the current
period.  For cash-flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or
loss on the derivative is reported as a component of other comprehensive income
(OCI) with an offsetting adjustment to the basis of the item being
hedged.  Realized gains or losses from cash-flow hedges, and any
ineffectiveness, are recorded as a component of net sales in the consolidated
statements of income. Ineffectiveness is primarily created by a basis difference
between the hedged item and the hedging instrument due to location, quality or
grade of the physical commodity transactions.  Gains and losses from
derivative instruments are reported net in the consolidated statements of
income. There were no fair value hedges as of and for the year ended December
31, 2009. 

          A hedge is
regarded as highly effective and qualifies for hedge accounting if, at inception
and throughout its life, it is expected that changes in the fair value or cash
flows of the hedged item are almost fully offset by the changes in the fair
value or changes in cash flows of the hedging instrument and actual
effectiveness is within a range of 80 to 125 percent.  In the case of
hedging a forecasted transaction, the transaction must be probable and must
present an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect
reported net income or loss.  Occidental discontinues hedge accounting
when it determines that a derivative has ceased to be highly effective as a
hedge; when the derivative expires, or is sold, terminated, or exercised; when
the hedged item matures or is sold or repaid; or when a forecasted transaction
is no longer deemed probable. 

          Occidental's
midstream and marketing PP E is depreciated over the estimated useful lives
of the assets, using either the unit-of-production or straight-line
method.  Occidental performs impairment tests on its midstream and
marketing assets whenever events or changes in circumstances lead to a reduction
in the estimated useful lives or estimated future cash flows that would indicate
that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, or when management s plans
change with respect to those assets.  Any impairment loss would be
calculated as the excess of the asset's net book value over its estimated fair
value. 

Fair
Value Measurements 

          Occidental
has categorized its assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value,
based on the priority of the inputs to the valuation techniques, in a
three-level fair value hierarchy: Level 1   using quoted prices in active
markets for identical assets or liabilities; Level 2   using observable inputs
other than quoted prices; and Level 3   using unobservable
inputs.  Occidental primarily applies the market approach for
recurring fair value measurements, maximizes its use of observable inputs and
minimizes its use of unobservable inputs.  Occidental utilizes the
mid-point price between bid and ask prices for valuing the majority of its
assets and liabilities measured and reported at fair value.  In
addition to using market data, Occidental makes assumptions in valuing its
assets and liabilities, including assumptions about risk and the risks inherent
in the inputs to the valuation technique. 

29 

Certain of
Occidental's derivative instruments are valued using industry-standard models
that consider various inputs, including quoted forward prices for commodities,
time value, volatility factors, and current market and contractual prices for
the underlying instruments, as well as other relevant economic measures.
Substantially all of these inputs are observable in the marketplace throughout
the full term of the instrument, can be derived from observable data or are
supported by observable prices at which transactions are executed in the
marketplace. 

          Occidental
generally uses an income approach to measure fair value when there is not a
market observable price for an identical or similar asset or
liability.  This approach utilizes management s best assumptions
regarding expectations of projected cash flows, and discounts the expected cash
flows using a commensurate risk-adjusted discount rate.  The portion
of derivatives valued using Level 3 inputs is de minimis. 

Environmental
Liabilities and Expenditures 

          Environmental
expenditures that relate to current operations are expensed or capitalized as
appropriate.  Occidental records environmental reserves for estimated
remediation costs that relate to existing conditions from past operations when
environmental remediation efforts are probable and the costs can be reasonably
estimated.  In determining the reserves and the range of reasonably
possible additional loss, Occidental refers to currently available information,
including relevant past experience, remedial objectives, available technologies,
applicable laws and regulations and cost-sharing
arrangements.  Occidental bases environmental reserves on management s
estimate of the most likely cost to be incurred, using the most cost-effective
technology reasonably expected to achieve the remedial
objective.  Occidental periodically reviews reserves and adjusts them
as new information becomes available.  Occidental records
environmental reserves on a discounted basis only when the aggregate amount and
the timing of cash payments are reliably determinable at the time the reserves
are established.  The reserve methodology with respect to discounting
for a specific site is not modified once it has been
established.  Occidental generally records reimbursements or
recoveries of environmental remediation costs in income when received, unless
receipt of recovery is highly probable, in which case an accrual may be
recorded.  As of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, Occidental has not
accrued any reimbursements or recoveries. 

          Many
factors could affect Occidental s future remediation costs and result in
adjustments to its environmental reserves and range of reasonably possible
additional loss.  The most significant are:  (1) cost
estimates for remedial activities may be inaccurate; (2) the length of time,
type or amount of remediation necessary to achieve the remedial objective may
change due to factors such as site conditions, the ability to identify and
control contaminant sources or the discovery of additional contamination; (3)
the regulatory agency may ultimately reject or modify Occidental s proposed
remedial plan; (4) improved or alternative remediation technologies may change
remediation   costs; and
(5) laws and regulations may impose more or less stringent remediation
requirements or affect cost sharing or allocation of liability. 

          Certain
sites involve multiple parties with various cost-sharing arrangements, which
fall into the following three categories:  (1) environmental
proceedings that result in a negotiated or prescribed allocation of remediation
costs among Occidental and other alleged potentially responsible parties; (2)
oil and gas ventures in which each participant pays its proportionate share of
remediation costs reflecting its working interest; or (3) contractual
arrangements, typically relating to purchases and sales of properties, in which
the parties to the transaction agree to methods of allocating remediation
costs.  In these circumstances, Occidental evaluates the financial
viability of other parties with whom it is alleged to be jointly liable, the
degree of their commitment to participate and the consequences to Occidental of
their failure to participate when estimating Occidental's ultimate share of
liability.  Occidental records reserves at its expected net cost of
remedial activities and, based on these factors, believes that it will not be
required to assume a share of liability of such other potentially responsible
parties in an amount materially above amounts reserved. 

          In
addition to the costs of investigations and cleanup measures, which often take
in excess of ten years at NPL sites, Occidental s reserves include management s
estimates of the costs to operate and maintain remedial systems.  If
remedial systems are modified over time in response to significant changes in
site-specific data, laws, regulations, technologies or engineering estimates,
Occidental reviews and adjusts its reserves accordingly. 

          If
Occidental adjusts the environmental reserve balance based on the factors
described above, the amount of the increase or decrease would be recognized in
earnings.  For example, if the reserve balance were reduced by 10
percent, Occidental would record a pre-tax gain of $40 million.  If
the reserve balance were increased by 10 percent, Occidental would record an
additional remediation expense of $40 million. 

Other
Loss Contingencies 

          Occidental
is involved with numerous lawsuits, claims, proceedings and audits in the normal
course of its operations.  Occidental records a loss contingency for
these matters when it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability
has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably
estimated.  In addition, Occidental discloses, in aggregate, its
exposure to loss in excess of the amount recorded on the balance sheet for these
matters if it is reasonably possible that an additional material loss may be
incurred.  Occidental reviews its loss contingencies on an ongoing
basis. 

          Loss
contingencies are based on judgments made by management with respect to the
likely outcome of these matters and are adjusted as
appropriate.  Management s judgments could change based on new
information, changes in laws or regulations, changes in management s plans or
intentions and the outcome of legal proceedings, settlements or other
factors.  See "Lawsuits, Claims, Commitments, Contingencies and
Related Matters" for additional information. 

30 

Significant Accounting and Disclosure Changes 

          Listed
below are significant changes in accounting principles. 

Future
Accounting and Disclosure Changes 

          Effective
for the first quarter of 2010, Occidental will modify its method of assessing
the consolidation of variable interest entities as a result of adopting new
accounting requirements issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) in June 2009.  Occidental is currently assessing the effect of
this new guidance on its financial statements but does not expect it to be
material. 

Recently
Adopted Accounting and Disclosure Changes 

          Effective
for the year ended December 31, 2009, the SEC and the FASB modified certain
accounting and disclosure requirements for oil and gas properties, which
Occidental adopted.  The new guidance includes changes to pricing
methodology and the use of allowable technologies in the recognition and
measurement of reserves, as well as oil and gas disclosure
requirements.  As of December 31, 2009, Occidental conformed its
disclosures to the new guidelines, which did not have a material impact on
Occidental's financial statements. 

          As of
December 31, 2009, Occidental enhanced its disclosures related to the assets
held in defined benefit plans and other post-retirement benefits in accordance
with disclosure requirements issued by the FASB in December 2008 and in April
2009. 

          In the
quarter ended June 30, 2009, Occidental adopted new disclosure requirements for
its evaluation of subsequent events as a result of new accounting guidance
issued by the FASB in May 2009. 

          In the
quarter ended June 30, 2009, Occidental adopted new disclosure requirements for
the fair value of financial instruments in interim periods when it is
practicable to estimate such values as a result of new accounting guidance
issued by the FASB in April 2009. 

          Beginning
January 1, 2009, Occidental modified its calculation of basic earnings per share
(EPS) in accordance with new accounting guidance issued by the FASB in June
2008.  Under this new accounting guidance, instruments containing
rights to nonforfeitable dividends granted in share-based payment transactions
are considered participating securities prior to vesting and, therefore, have
been included in the earnings allocations in computing EPS under the two-class
method.  While prior period EPS data has been adjusted
retrospectively, this change had no material impact on Occidental s financial
statements. 

          Beginning
January 1, 2009, Occidental adopted new disclosure requirements for its
derivative and hedging activities as a result of new accounting guidance issued
by the FASB in March 2008. 

          Beginning
January 1, 2009, Occidental prospectively adopted the deferred portion of new
accounting guidance related to the application of the measurement and disclosure
framework of non-financial assets and liabilities that are recorded at fair
value on a non-recurring basis.  This new guidance was issued by the
FASB in February 2008. 

          Beginning
January 1, 2009, Occidental adopted new accounting guidance related to the
accounting and disclosure requirements for business combinations.  The
new guidance was issued by the FASB in December 2007 and April 2009 and had no
material impact on Occidental s financial statements upon adoption. 

          On January
1, 2009, Occidental adopted new accounting guidance affecting the presentation
and disclosure requirements related to noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries.
Occidental adopted this new guidance prospectively, except for the presentation
and disclosure requirements which were applied retrospectively to all periods
presented. These new requirements were issued in December 2007 and had no
material impact on Occidental s financial statements upon adoption. 

Derivative Activities and Market Risk 

          General 

          In certain
instances, Occidental has used derivative transactions to mitigate its exposure
to commodity price risk.  Occidental acquired Phibro on December 31,
2009, and thus has included Phibro s balances in Occidental s consolidated
assets and liabilities as of that date. 

Commodity
Price Risk 

          General 

          Occidental s
results are sensitive to fluctuations in oil and natural gas
prices.  Based on current levels of production, if oil prices vary by
$1 per barrel, it would have an estimated annual effect on pre-tax income of
approximately $143 million.  If domestic natural gas prices vary by
$0.50 per Mcf, it would have an estimated annual effect on pre-tax income of
approximately $96 million.  As production levels change in the future,
the sensitivity of Occidental s results to oil and gas prices also will
change. 

          Occidental s
results are also sensitive to fluctuations in chemical prices.  A
variation in chlorine and caustic soda prices of $10 per ton would have a
pre-tax annual effect on income of approximately $10 million and $30 million,
respectively.  A variation in PVC prices of $0.01 per lb would have a
pre-tax annual effect on income of approximately $30 million.  A
variation in ethylene dichloride (EDC) prices of $10 per ton would have a
pre-tax annual effect on income of approximately $5
million.  Historically, product price changes either precede or follow
raw material and feedstock product price changes; therefore, the margin effect
of price changes is generally mitigated over time.  According to
Chemical Market Associates, Inc., December 2009 average contract prices were:
chlorine $373 per ton, caustic soda $220 per ton, PVC $0.57 per lb and EDC $300
per ton. 

Marketing
and Trading Operations 

          Occidental
has used derivatives to reduce its long-term exposure to price volatility on a
small portion of its oil and gas production.  Through its low-risk
marketing and trading activities and within its established policy controls and
procedures, Occidental has also used derivative instruments, including a
combination of short-term futures, forwards, options and swaps to improve
realized prices for its oil and gas.  Additionally, Occidental,
through its Phibro subsidiary, will also engage in trading activities using
derivatives for the purpose of generating profits mainly from market price
changes of commodities. 

31 

Risk
Management 

          Occidental
conducts its risk management activities for marketing and trading activities
under the controls and governance of its risk control policy.  The
controls under this policy are implemented and enforced by certain members of
management embedded in the marketing and trading operations who provide an
independent and separate evaluation and check on marketing and trading
activities in order to manage risk.  These members of management
report to the Corporate Vice President and Treasurer.  The Chief
Financial Officer and risk committees comprising members of Occidental's senior
corporate management also oversee these controls.  Controls for these
activities include limits on value at risk, limits on credit, limits on trading,
segregation of duties, delegation of authority, price verifications, daily
reporting to senior management of positions together with various risk measures
and a number of other policy and procedural controls. 

Fair
Value of Marketing and Trading Derivative Contracts 

          The
following tables show the changes in the net fair value of Occidental s
marketing and trading derivative contracts during 2009 and 2008. 

(a) 

Primarily
      relates to price changes on existing cash-flow hedges. 

The
following table shows the fair value of derivatives, segregated by maturity
periods and by methodology of fair value estimation: 

Cash-Flow
Hedges 

          Occidental
holds a series of collar agreements that qualify as cash-flow hedges for the
sale of approximately 2 percent of its crude oil production.  These
agreements continue to the end of 2011.  The following table presents
the daily quantities and weighted-average strike prices of Occidental s collar
positions as of December 31, 2009: 

In 2009,
Occidental entered into financial swap agreements related to the sale of a
portion of its natural gas production from the Rockies that qualify as cash-flow
hedges.  The following table presents the daily quantities and
weighted-average hedged prices that will be received by Occidental as of
December 31, 2009: 

Occidental s
marketing and trading operations store natural gas purchased from third parties
at leased storage facilities.  Derivative instruments are used to fix
margins on the future sales of the stored volumes.  These agreements
continue through 2010.   As of December 31, 2009,
Occidental had approximately 28 Bcf of natural gas held in storage. Occidental
has designated the forecasted sale of approximately 24 Bcf of natural gas from
storage as cash-flow hedges. 

          As of
December 31, 2009, the total fair value of cash-flow hedges, which was a
liability of $334 million, primarily consisting of collar agreements, was
included in the total fair value (a liability of $339 million) in the tables in
"Fair Value of Marketing and Trading Derivative Contracts" above. 

Quantitative
Information 

          Occidental
uses value at risk to estimate the potential effects of changes in fair values
of commodity-based and foreign currency derivatives and commodity contracts used
in marketing and trading activities.  This method determines the
maximum potential negative short-term change in fair value with at least a
95-percent level of confidence.  The marketing and trading value at
risk was immaterial during 2009. 

Interest
Rate Risk 

          General 

           Occidental's exposure to changes in interest rates
relates primarily to its variable-rate, long-term debt obligations, and is not
expected to be material.   As of December 31, 2009,
variable-rate debt constituted approximately four percent of Occidental's total
debt. 

Tabular
Presentation of Interest Rate Risk 

          The table
below provides information about Occidental's debt obligations.  Debt
amounts represent principal payments by maturity date. 

(a) 

Excludes
      unamortized net discounts of $12 million. 

32 

Credit
Risk 

          Occidental s
contracts are spread among several counterparties. Creditworthiness is reviewed
before doing business with a new counterparty and on an ongoing basis and master
netting agreements are used when appropriate.  Occidental monitors
aggregated counterparty exposure relative to credit limits.  Credit
exposure for each customer is monitored for outstanding balances, current
activity, and forward mark-to-market exposure.  As of December 31,
2009, the majority of the credit exposures was with counterparties which had
investment grade credit ratings.  Occidental believes its exposure to
credit-related losses at December 31, 2009 was not material.  Losses
associated with credit risk have been immaterial for all years
presented. 

Foreign
Currency Risk 

          Occidental s
foreign operations have currency risk.  Occidental manages its
exposure primarily by balancing monetary assets and liabilities and
maintain ing cash positions in foreign currencies only at levels necessary
for operating purposes.  Most international crude oil sales are
denominated in U.S. dollars.  Additionally, all of Occidental s
consolidated foreign oil and gas subsidiaries have the U.S. dollar as the
functional currency.  As of December 31, 2009, the fair value of
foreign currency derivatives acquired as a result of the Phibro acquisition was
immaterial.  The effect of exchange rates on transactions in foreign
currencies is included in periodic income. 

Safe Harbor Discussion Regarding Outlook and Other Forward-Looking
Data 

          Portions
of this report, including Items 1 and 2 and the information appearing under the
caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations," including the information under the sub captions "Strategy,"
"Oil and Gas Segment   Industry Outlook," "Chemical
Segment   Industry Outlook," "Midstream, Marketing and Other
Segment   Industry Outlook," "Liquidity and Capital Resources,"
"Lawsuits, Claims, Contingencies and Related Matters," "Environmental
Liabilities and Expenditures," and "Derivative Activities and Market Risk"
contain forward-looking statements and involve risks and uncertainties that
could materially affect expected results of operations, liquidity, cash flows
and business prospects.  Words such as "estimate," "project,"
"predict," "will," "would," "should," "could," "may," "might," "anticipate,"
"plan," "intend," "believe," "expect" or similar expressions that convey the
uncertainty of future events or outcomes generally identify forward-looking
statements.  You should not place undue reliance on these
forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this
report.  Unless legally required, Occidental does not undertake any
obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise.  Material risks that may
affect Occidental s results of operations and financial position appear in Part
I, Item 1A "Risk Factors," and elsewhere. 

33 

Item 8 

Financial Statements and Supplementary
      Data 

Management's Annual Assessment of and Report on Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting 

The
management of Occidental Petroleum Corporation and subsidiaries (Occidental) is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting.  Occidental s system of internal control over
financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles.  Occidental s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that: (i) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect
the transactions and dispositions of Occidental s assets; (ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that Occidental s receipts and expenditures are being
made only in accordance with authorizations of Occidental s management and
directors; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of Occidental s assets
that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 

Because of
its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation
of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

Management
has assessed the effectiveness of Occidental s internal control system as of
December 31, 2009 based on the criteria for effective internal control over
financial reporting described in Internal Control   Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO).  Based on this assessment, management believes
that, as of December 31, 2009, Occidental s system of internal control over
financial reporting is effective. 

Occidental s
independent auditors, KPMG LLP, have issued an audit report on Occidental s
internal control over financial reporting. 

34 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
Consolidated Financial Statements 

To the
Board of Directors and Stockholders 

          Occidental
Petroleum Corporation: 

We have
audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Occidental Petroleum
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related
consolidated statements of income, stockholders  equity, comprehensive income
and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31,
2009.  In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial
statements, we also have audited the accompanying financial statement
schedule.  These consolidated financial statements and financial
statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company s
management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our
audits. 

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well
as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 

In our
opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Occidental Petroleum
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles.  Also in our opinion, the related financial
statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein. 

We also
have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), Occidental Petroleum Corporation and
subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009,
based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO),
and our report dated February 25, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting. 

/s/ KPMG LLP

Los
Angeles, California 

          February
25, 2010 

35 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

To the
Board of Directors and Stockholders 

          Occidental
Petroleum Corporation: 

We have
audited Occidental Petroleum Corporation and subsidiaries' internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in
Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Annual Assessment of and
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting
based on our audit. 

We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and
testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such
other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 

A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company's internal
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and
fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements. 

Because of
its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation
of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

In our
opinion, Occidental Petroleum Corporation and its subsidiaries maintained, in
all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control -
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO). 

We also
have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Occidental
Petroleum Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the
related consolidated statements of income, stockholders  equity, comprehensive
income and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2009, and our report dated   February
25, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial
statements. 

/s/ KPMG LLP

Los
Angeles, California 

          February
25, 2010 

36 

Consolidated Statements of Income 

Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation 

In
      millions, except per-share amounts 

and
      Subsidiaries 

37 

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation 

In
      millions 

and
      Subsidiaries 

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements. 

38 

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation 

In
      millions, except share and per-share amounts 

and
      Subsidiaries 

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements. 

39 

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders'
      Equity 

Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation 

In
      millions 

and
      Subsidiaries 

(a) 

Represent
      amounts attributable to common stock after deducting noncontrolling
      interest amounts. 

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive
    Income 

In
      millions 

40 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation 

In
      millions 

and
      Subsidiaries 

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements. 

41 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation 

and
      Subsidiaries 

Note 1 

Summary of Significant Accounting
  Policies 

Nature of Operations 

          In this
report, "Occidental" or "the Company" refers to Occidental Petroleum
Corporation, a Delaware corporation, (OPC), and/or one or more entities in which
it owns a majority voting interest (subsidiaries).  Occidental is a
multinational organization whose subsidiaries and affiliates operate in the oil
and gas, chemical and midstream, marketing and other segments.  The
oil and gas segment explores for, develops, produces and markets crude oil,
including natural gas liquids (NGLs) and condensate, as well as natural
gas.  The chemical segment (OxyChem) manufactures and markets basic
chemicals, vinyls and other chemicals.   The midstream, marketing
and other segment (midstream and marketing) gathers, treats, processes,
transports, stores, purchases and markets crude oil (including NGLs and
condensate), natural gas, carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) and
power.  It also trades around its assets, including pipelines and
storage capacity, and trades commodities and securities.  Unless
otherwise indicated hereafter, discussion of oil or oil and liquids refers to
crude oil, NGLs and condensate.  In addition, discussions of oil and
gas production or volumes, in general, refer to sales volumes unless context
requires or it is indicated otherwise. 

Principles of Consolidation 

          The
consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with United
States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and include the accounts
of OPC, its subsidiaries and its undivided interests in oil and gas exploration
and production ventures.  Occidental's proportionate share of oil and
gas exploration and production ventures, in which it has a direct working
interest, is accounted for by reporting its proportionate share of assets,
liabilities, revenues, costs and cash flows within the relevant lines on the
balance sheets, income statements and cash flow statements. 

          Certain
financial statements, notes and supplementary data for prior years have been
reclassified to conform to the 2009 presentation. 

Investments in Unconsolidated Entities 

          Investments
in unconsolidated entities include equity-method investments.  Amounts
representing Occidental s percentage interest in the underlying net assets of
affiliates (excluding undivided interests in oil and gas exploration and
production ventures) in which it does not have a majority voting interest but as
to which it exercises significant influence, are accounted for under the equity
method.  Occidental reviews equity-method investments for impairment
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an
other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred.  The amount
of impairment, if any, is based on quoted market prices, where available, or
other valuation techniques, including discounted cash flows. 

Revenue Recognition 

          Revenue is
recognized from oil and gas production when title has passed to the customer,
which occurs when the product is shipped.  In international locations
where oil is shipped by tanker, title passes when the tanker is loaded or
product is received by the customer, depending on the shipping
terms.  This process occasionally causes a difference between actual
production in a reporting period and sales volumes that have been recognized as
revenue.  Revenue from marketing and trading activities is recognized
on net settled transactions upon completion of contract terms, and for physical
deliveries upon title transfer.  For unsettled transactions, contracts
that meet specified accounting criteria are recorded at fair
value.  Revenue from all marketing and trading activities is reported
on a net basis. 

          Revenue
from chemical product sales is recognized when the product is shipped and title
has passed to the customer.  Prices are fixed at the time of
shipment.  Certain incentive programs may provide for payments or
credits to be made to customers based on the volume of product purchased over a
defined period.  Total customer incentive payments over a given period
are estimated and recorded as a reduction to revenue ratably over the contract
period.  Such estimates are evaluated and revised as
warranted. 

          Occidental
records revenue net of taxes that are assessed by governmental authorities on
Occidental's customers. 

Risks and Uncertainties 

          The
process of preparing consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP
requires Occidental's management to make informed estimates and judgments
regarding certain types of financial statement balances.  Such
estimates primarily relate to unsettled transactions and events as of the date
of the consolidated financial statements.  Changes in facts and
circumstances or discovery of new information relating to such transactions and
events may result in revised estimates and judgments, and upon settlement actual
results may differ from these estimates, but generally not by material
amounts.  Management believes that these estimates and assumptions
provide a reasonable basis for the fair presentation of Occidental s financial
position and results of operations. 

42 

Realization
of deferred tax assets, including any net operating loss carry forwards, is
dependent upon Occidental generating sufficient future taxable income in
jurisdictions where such assets originate.  Occidental expects to
realize the recorded deferred tax assets, net of any allowances, through future
operating income and reversal of temporary differences. 

          The
accompanying consolidated financial statements include assets of approximately
$11.7 billion as of December 31, 2009, and net sales of approximately $5.9
billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, relating to Occidental s
operations in countries outside North America.  Occidental operates
some of its oil and gas business in countries that occasionally have experienced
political instability, armed conflict, terrorism, insurgency, civil unrest,
security problems, labor unrest, OPEC production restrictions, equipment import
restrictions and sanctions that prevent continued operations, all of which
increase Occidental's risk of loss or delayed or restricted production or may
result in other adverse consequences.  Occidental attempts to conduct
its financial affairs so as to mitigate its exposure against such risks and
would seek compensation in the event of nationalization. 

          Since
Occidental s major products are commodities, significant changes in the prices
of oil and gas and chemical products may have a significant impact on
Occidental s results of operations for any particular year. 

          Also, see
"Property, Plant and Equipment" below. 

Cash and Cash Equivalents 

          Cash
equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily
convertible to cash.  Cash equivalents totaled approximately $1.2
billion and $1.8 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. 

Short-Term Investments 

          Short-term
investments are recorded at fair value with any unrealized gains or losses
included in accumulated other comprehensive income/loss (AOCI). 

Inventories 

          Materials
and supplies are valued at the lower of weighted-average cost or market and are
reviewed periodically for obsolescence.  Oil and natural gas
inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. 

          For the
chemical segment, Occidental's inventories are valued at the lower of cost or
market.  For most of its domestic inventories, other than materials
and supplies, the chemical segment uses the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method as
it better matches current costs and current revenue.  For other
countries, Occidental uses the first-in, first-out method (if the costs of goods
are specifically identifiable) or the average-cost method (if the costs of goods
are not specifically identifiable). 

Property, Plant and Equipment 

          Oil
and Gas 

          The
carrying value of Occidental s property, plant and equipment (PP E) is based
on the cost incurred to acquire the PP E, including any capitalized
interest, net of accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD A)
and net of any impairment charges.  For acquisitions of a business,
PP E cost is determined by an allocation of total purchase price to the
components of PP E based on their estimated fair values at the date of
acquisition.  Interest costs incurred in connection with qualifying
capital expenditures are capitalized and amortized over the lives of the related
assets. 

          Occidental
uses the successful efforts method to account for its oil and gas
properties.  Under this method, costs of acquiring properties, costs
of drilling successful exploration wells and development costs are
capitalized.  The costs of exploratory wells are initially capitalized
pending a determination of whether proved reserves have been
found.  At the completion of drilling activities, the costs of
exploratory wells remain capitalized if a determination is made that proved
reserves have been found.  If no proved reserves have been found, the
costs of the related exploratory wells are charged to expense.  In
some cases, a determination of proved reserves cannot be made at the completion
of drilling, requiring additional testing and evaluation of the
wells.  Occidental's practice is to expense the costs of such
exploratory wells if a determination of proved reserves has not been made within
a 12-month period after drilling is complete.  Annual lease rentals
and geological, geophysical and seismic costs are expensed as
incurred. 

The
following table summarizes the activity of capitalized exploratory well costs
for the years ended December 31: 

43 

Proved oil and gas reserves (as defined in the
Securities and Exchange Commission's Regulation S-X, Rule 4-10(a)) are those
quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering
data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically
producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing
economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations prior to the
time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence
indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether
deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the
estimation.   Occidental has no proved oil and gas reserves for
which the determination of commercial viability is subject to the completion of
major additional capital expenditures.  Depreciation and depletion of
oil and gas producing properties is determined by the unit-of-production
method. 

          A portion
of the carrying value of Occidental s oil and gas properties is attributable to
unproved properties.  At December 31, 2009, the net capitalized costs
attributable to unproved properties were $1.9 billion.  The unproved
amounts are not subject to DD A or impairment until a determination is made
as to the existence of proved reserves.  As exploration and
development work progresses, if reserves on these properties are proved,
capitalized costs attributable to the properties will be subject to depreciation
and depletion.  If the exploration and development work were to be
unsuccessful, or management's plans changed with respect to these properties, as
a result of economic, operating or contractual conditions, the capitalized costs
of the related properties would be expensed in the period in which the
determination was made.  The timing of any writedowns of these
unproved properties, if warranted, depends upon management's plans, the nature,
timing and extent of future exploration and development activities and their
results.  Occidental believes its current plans and exploration and
development efforts will allow it to realize its unproved property
balance. 

          Additionally,
Occidental performs impairment tests with respect to its proved properties
generally when prices decline other than temporarily, reserve estimates change
significantly or other significant events occur that may impact the ability to
realize the recorded asset amounts.  Impairment tests incorporate a
number of assumptions involving expectations of future cash flows, which can
change significantly over time.  These assumptions include estimates
of future product prices, which Occidental bases on forward price curves,
estimates of oil and gas reserves and estimates of future expected operations
and development costs.  Fluctuations in commodities prices and
production and development costs could cause management's plans to change with
respect to unproved properties and could cause the carrying values of proved
properties to be unrealizable.  Such circumstances could result in
impairments in the carrying values of proved or unproved properties or
both.   Any impairment loss would be
calculated as the excess of the asset s net book value over its estimated fair
value.  

Chemical 

          The most
critical accounting policy affecting Occidental's chemical assets is the
determination of the estimated useful lives of the
PP E.  Occidental s chemical plants are depreciated using either
the unit-of-production or straight-line method, based upon the estimated useful
lives of the facilities.  The estimated useful lives of Occidental s
chemical assets, which range from three years to 50 years, are also used for
impairment tests.  The estimated useful lives used for the chemical
facilities are based on the assumption that Occidental will provide an
appropriate level of annual expenditures to ensure productive capacity is
sustained.  Without these continued expenditures, the useful lives of
these plants could decrease significantly.  Other factors that could
change the estimated useful lives of Occidental s chemical plants include
sustained higher or lower product prices, which are particularly affected by
both domestic and foreign competition, demand, feedstock costs, energy prices,
environmental regulations and technological changes. 

          Occidental
performs impairment tests on its chemical assets whenever events or changes in
circumstances lead to a reduction in the estimated useful lives or estimated
future cash flows that would indicate that the carrying amount may not be
recoverable, or when management s plans change with respect to those
assets.   Any impairment loss would be
calculated as the excess of the asset s net book value over its estimated fair
value.  

Midstream
and Marketing 

          Occidental s
midstream and marketing PP E is depreciated over the estimated useful lives
of the assets, using either the unit-of-production or straight-line
method. 

          Occidental
performs impairment tests on its midstream and marketing assets whenever events
or changes in circumstances lead to a reduction in the estimated useful lives or
estimated future cash flows that would indicate that the carrying amount may not
be recoverable, or when management s plans change with respect to those
assets.   Any impairment loss would be
calculated as the excess of the asset s net book value over its estimated fair
value.  

Fair Value Measurements 

           Occidental has categorized its assets and liabilities
that are measured at fair value, based on the priority of the inputs to the
valuation techniques, in a three-level fair value hierarchy: Level 1   using
quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Level 2  
using observable inputs other than quoted prices; and Level 3   using
unobservable inputs.  Occidental primarily applies the market approach
for recurring fair value measurements, maximizes its use of observable inputs
and minimizes its use of unobservable inputs.   Occidental
utilizes the mid-point price between bid and ask prices for valuing the majority
of its assets and liabilities measured and reported at fair value.  In
addition to using market data, Occidental makes assumptions in valuing its
assets and liabilities, including assumptions about risk and the risks inherent
in the inputs to the valuation technique. 

44 

Certain of
Occidental's derivative instruments are valued using industry-standard models
that consider various inputs, including quoted forward prices for commodities,
time value, volatility factors, and current market and contractual prices for
the underlying instruments, as well as other relevant economic measures.
Substantially all of these inputs are observable in the marketplace throughout
the full term of the instrument, can be derived from observable data or are
supported by observable prices at which transactions are executed in the
marketplace. 

          Occidental
generally uses an income approach to measure fair value when there is not a
market observable price for an identical or similar asset or
liability.  This approach utilizes management's best assumptions
regarding expectations of projected cash flows, and discounts the expected cash
flows using a commensurate risk-adjusted discount rate.  The portion
of derivatives valued using Level 3 inputs is de minimis. 

Accrued Liabilities Current 

          Accrued
liabilities include accrued payroll, commissions and related expenses of $644
million and $352 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. 

Environmental Liabilities and Expenditures  

          Environmental
expenditures that relate to current operations are expensed or capitalized as
appropriate.  Occidental records environmental reserves for estimated
remediation costs that relate to existing conditions from past operations when
environmental remediation efforts are probable and the costs can be reasonably
estimated.  In determining the reserves and the range of reasonably
possible additional loss, Occidental refers to currently available information,
including relevant past experience, remedial objectives, available technologies,
applicable laws and regulations and cost-sharing
arrangements.  Occidental bases environmental reserves on management s
estimate of the most likely cost to be incurred, using the most cost-effective
technology reasonably expected to achieve the remedial
objective.  Occidental periodically reviews reserves and adjusts them
as new information becomes available.  Occidental records
environmental reserves on a discounted basis only when the aggregate amount and
the timing of cash payments are reliably determinable at the time the reserves
are established.  The reserve methodology with respect to discounting
for a specific site is not modified once it has been
established.  Occidental generally records reimbursements or
recoveries of environmental remediation costs in income when received, unless
receipt of recovery is highly probable, in which case an accrual may be
recorded.  As of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, Occidental has not
accrued any reimbursements or recoveries. 

          Many
factors could affect Occidental s future remediation costs and result in
adjustments to its environmental reserves and range of reasonably possible
additional loss.  The most significant are:  (1) cost
estimates for remedial activities may be inaccurate; (2) the length of time,
type or amount of remediation necessary to achieve the remedial objective may
change due to factors such as site conditions, the ability to identify and
control contaminant sources or the discovery of additional contamination; (3)
the regulatory agency may ultimately reject or modify Occidental s proposed
remedial plan; (4) improved or alternative remediation technologies may change
remediation costs; and (5) laws and regulations may impose more or less
stringent remediation requirements or affect cost sharing or allocation of
liability. 

          Certain
sites involve multiple parties with various cost-sharing arrangements, which
fall into the following three categories:  (1) environmental
proceedings that result in a negotiated or prescribed allocation of remediation
costs among Occidental and other alleged potentially responsible parties; (2)
oil and gas ventures in which each participant pays its proportionate share of
remediation costs reflecting its working interest; or (3) contractual
arrangements, typically relating to purchases and sales of properties, in which
the parties to the transaction agree to methods of allocating remediation
costs.  In these circumstances, Occidental evaluates the financial
viability of other parties with whom it is alleged to be jointly liable, the
degree of their commitment to participate and the consequences to Occidental of
their failure to participate when estimating Occidental's ultimate share of
liability.  Occidental records reserves at its expected net cost of
remedial activities and, based on these factors, believes that it will not be
required to assume a share of liability of such other potentially responsible
parties in an amount materially above amounts reserved. 

          In
addition to the costs of investigations and cleanup measures, which often take
in excess of ten years at Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation,
and Liability Act (CERCLA) National Priorities List (NPL) sites, Occidental s
reserves include management s estimates of the costs to operate and maintain
remedial systems.  If remedial systems are modified over time in
response to significant changes in site-specific data, laws, regulations,
technologies or engineering estimates, Occidental reviews and adjusts its
reserves accordingly. 

Asset Retirement Obligations 

          In the
period in which an asset retirement obligation is incurred and becomes
reasonably estimable, Occidental recognizes the fair value of the liability if
there is a legal obligation to dismantle the asset and reclaim or remediate the
property at the end of its useful life.  The liability amounts are
based on future retirement cost estimates and incorporate many assumptions such
as time to abandonment, technological changes, future inflation rates and the
adjusted risk-free rate of interest.  When the liability is initially
recorded, Occidental capitalizes the cost by increasing the related PP E
balances.   If the estimated future cost
of the asset retirement obligation changes, an adjustment is recorded to both
the asset retirement obligation and PP E.   Over time, the
liability is increased and expense is recognized for changes in its present
value, and the initial capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of
the asset.  No market risk premium has been included in Occidental s
liability since no reliable estimate can be made at this time. 

45 

Occidental
has identified conditional asset retirement obligations at a certain number of
its facilities that are related mainly to plant
decommissioning.  Occidental believes that there is an indeterminate
settlement date for these asset retirement obligations because the range of time
over which Occidental may settle these obligations is unknown or cannot be
estimated.  Therefore, Occidental cannot reasonably estimate the fair
value of these liabilities.  Occidental will recognize these
conditional asset retirement obligations in the periods in which sufficient
information becomes available to reasonably estimate their fair
values. 

          The
following table summarizes the activity of the asset retirement obligation, of
which $677 million and $480 million is included in deferred credits and other
liabilities - other, with the remaining current portion in accrued liabilities
at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 

Derivative Instruments 

          Derivatives
are carried at fair value and on a net basis when a legal right of offset exists
with the same counterparty.  Occidental applies hedge accounting when
transactions meet specified criteria for such treatment.  If a
derivative does not qualify or is not designated and documented as a hedge, any
fair value gains or losses are recognized in earnings in the current
period.  For cash-flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or
loss on the derivative is reported as a component of other comprehensive income
(OCI) with an offsetting adjustment to the basis of the item being
hedged.  Realized gains or losses from cash-flow hedges, and any
ineffectiveness, are recorded as a component of net sales in the consolidated
statements of income. Ineffectiveness is primarily created by a basis difference
between the hedged item and the hedging instrument due to location, quality or
grade of the physical commodity transactions.  Gains and losses from
derivative instruments are reported net in the consolidated statements of
income. There were no fair value hedges as of and for the years ended December
31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. 

          A hedge is
regarded as highly effective and qualifies for hedge accounting if, at inception
and throughout its life, it is expected that changes in the fair value or cash
flows of the hedged item are almost fully offset by the changes in the fair
value or changes in cash flows of the hedging instrument and actual
effectiveness is within a range of 80 to 125 percent.  In the case of
hedging a forecasted transaction, the transaction must be probable and must
present an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect
reported net income or loss.  Occidental discontinues hedge accounting
when it determines that a derivative has ceased to be highly effective as a
hedge; when the derivative expires, or is sold, terminated, or exercised; when
the hedged item matures or is sold or repaid; or when a forecasted transaction
is no longer deemed probable. 

Stock-Based Incentive Plans 

          Occidental
has established several shareholder-approved stock-based incentive plans for
certain employees (Plans) that are more fully described in Note 12.  A
summary of Occidental s accounting policy under each type of award issued under
the Plans follows below. 

          For cash-
and stock-settled restricted stock units (RSUs), compensation expense is
initially measured on the grant date using the quoted market price of
Occidental s common stock.  For stock options (Options), stock-settled
stock appreciation rights (SARs), performance stock awards (PSAs) and total
shareholder return incentives (TSRIs), compensation expense is initially
measured on the grant date using potential exercise values or estimated payout
level using valuation models.  Compensation expense for all awards is
recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods, which is
generally over the awards  respective vesting or performance
periods.  The compensation expense for PSAs and TSRIs are adjusted
quarterly for any changes in the number of shares expected to be issued based on
the performance criteria using valuation models.  In addition, every
quarter the cash-settled portion of RSUs, SARs, PSAs and TSRIs is further
revalued for changes in the values of the underlying stock.  All such
performance or stock-price-related changes are recognized in periodic
compensation expense. 

46 

Supplemental Cash Flow Information 

          Occidental
paid U.S. federal, state and foreign income taxes of approximately $1.4 billion,
$4.5 billion and $3.5 billion during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and
2007, respectively.  Occidental also paid production, property and
other taxes, mostly in the U.S., of approximately $584 million, $590 million and
$463 million during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.  Cash payments for federal, state and foreign income
paid by discontinued operations were $8 million, $7 million and $17 million for
the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  Interest paid totaled
approximately $164 million, $84 million and $307 million for the years 2009,
2008 and 2007, respectively. 

Foreign Currency Transactions 

          The
functional currency applicable to all of Occidental s foreign oil and gas
operations is the U.S. dollar since cash flows are denominated principally in
U.S. dollars.  Occidental s chemical operations in Brazil use the Real
as the functional currency.  Exchange-rate changes on transactions
denominated in non-U.S. dollar functional currencies generated gains of $36
million and $91 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, and losses of $18
million in 2007. 

Note 2 

Acquisitions and
Dispositions 

Subsequent Event 

          In January
2010, Occidental and its partners signed a technical service contract with the
government of Iraq to develop the Zubair Field in Iraq. 

          Occidental's
management has evaluated events from January 1, 2010 through February 25, 2010
and has made the appropriate disclosures. 

2009 

          On
December 31, 2009, Occidental completed the acquisition of interests in Phibro
LLC (Phibro) from Citigroup Inc. for approximately $370
million.  Phibro, primarily an investor in commodities and securities,
is included as a part of Occidental's midstream and marketing
segment.  The assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at
their estimated fair values at the acquisition date.  The majority of
Phibro's assets and liabilities are derivatives and trading securities, which
are carried at fair value and, consequently, the allocated purchase prices are
included in Note 7, Derivative Activities and Note 15, Fair Value
Measurements.  No goodwill was recorded on this
transaction. 

          In
December 2009, Occidental purchased additional interests in the General Partner
of the Plains All-American Pipeline, L.P. for approximately $330
million.  Occidental now owns approximately 22 percent of this
entity. 

          Occidental
and its partners signed a Development and Production Sharing Agreement (DPSA) in
April 2009 with the National Oil and Gas Authority of Bahrain for further
development of the Bahrain Field, which became effective in December
2009.  Under this agreement, a joint operating company formed by
Occidental and its partners will serve as operator for the project. 

          In 2009,
Occidental acquired various additional oil and gas properties in California and
the Permian Basin for approximately $610 million. 

2008 

In August
2008, Occidental purchased noncontrolling interests in the General Partner of
Plains All-American Pipeline, L.P. for approximately $330 million in
cash. 

                In July
2008, Occidental purchased a 15-percent interest in the Joslyn Oil Sands Project
(Joslyn) in northern Alberta, Canada, for approximately $500 million in
cash. 

                In June
2008, Occidental signed an agreement for a third party to construct a west Texas
gas processing plant that will provide carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) for
Occidental s enhanced oil recovery projects in the Permian
Basin.  Occidental will own and operate the new facility. 

                In June
2008, Occidental and its partner signed 30-year agreements (including a
potential 5-year extension) with the Libyan National Oil Company (NOC) to
upgrade its existing petroleum contracts in Libya.  The new agreements
increased Occidental's after-tax economic returns while allowing NOC and
Occidental to design and implement major field redevelopment and exploration
programs in the Sirte Basin.  Occidental will contribute 37.5 percent
of the development capital.  Under these contracts, Occidental will
pay $750 million as its share of a signature bonus.  Occidental made
its first payment in the amount of $450 million in June 2008 and its second
payment of $150 million in June 2009.  Occidental's remaining payment
of $150 million is due in June 2010. 

                In
February 2008, Occidental purchased from Plains Exploration   Production
Company (Plains) a 50-percent interest in oil and gas properties in the Permian
Basin and western Colorado for approximately $1.5 billion in cash.  In
December 2008, Occidental purchased the remainder of Plains  interests in the
same assets for $1.2 billion in cash. 

47 

2007 

In
September 2007, Occidental sold exploration properties in West Africa and
recorded a pre-tax gain of $103 million. 

              In June
2007, Occidental completed a fair value exchange under which BP p.l.c. (BP)
acquired Occidental's oil and gas interests in Horn Mountain and received
cash.  Occidental acquired oil and gas interests in the Permian Basin
and a gas processing plant in Texas from BP.  Occidental also
purchased for cash BP's west Texas pipeline system and, in a separate
transaction, Occidental sold its oil and gas interests in Pakistan to
BP.  As a result of these transactions, both the Horn Mountain and
Pakistan operations were classified as discontinued operations for all periods
presented.  Net revenues and pre-tax income for discontinued
operations related to Pakistan and Horn Mountain were $193 million and $469
million (including after-tax disposal gains of $230 million) in
2007.  The assets and liabilities of Horn Mountain and Pakistan are
classified as assets of discontinued operations and liabilities of discontinued
operations on the consolidated balance sheet. 

              In January
2007, Occidental sold its 50-percent joint venture interest in Russia for an
after-tax gain of approximately $412 million. 

Note 3 

Accounting and Disclosure
Changes 

Future Accounting and Disclosure Changes 

          Effective
for the first quarter of 2010, Occidental will modify its method of assessing
the consolidation of variable interest entities as a result of adopting new
accounting requirements issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) in June 2009.  Occidental is currently assessing the effect of
this new guidance on its financial statements but does not expect it to be
material. 

Recently Adopted Accounting and Disclosure Changes 

          Effective
for the year ended December 31, 2009, the Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC) and the FASB modified certain accounting and disclosure requirements for
oil and gas properties, which Occidental adopted.  The new guidance
includes changes to pricing methodology and the use of allowable technologies in
the recognition and measurement of reserves, as well as oil and gas disclosure
requirements.  As of December 31, 2009, Occidental conformed its
disclosures to the new guidelines, which did not have a material impact on
Occidental's financial statements. 

          As of
December 31, 2009, Occidental enhanced its disclosures related to the assets
held in defined benefit plans and other post-retirement benefits in accordance
with disclosure requirements issued by the FASB in December 2008 and in April
2009. 

          In the
quarter ended June 30, 2009, Occidental adopted new disclosure requirements for
its evaluation of subsequent events as a result of new accounting guidance
issued by the FASB in May 2009. 

          In the
quarter ended June 30, 2009, Occidental adopted new disclosure requirements for
the fair value of financial instruments in interim periods when it is
practicable to estimate such values as a result of new accounting guidance
issued by the FASB in April 2009. 

          Beginning
January 1, 2009, Occidental modified its calculation of basic earnings per share
(EPS) in accordance with new accounting guidance issued by the FASB in June
2008.  Under this new accounting guidance, instruments containing
rights to nonforfeitable dividends granted in share-based payment transactions
are considered participating securities prior to vesting and, therefore, have
been included in the earnings allocations in computing EPS under the two-class
method.  While prior period EPS data has been adjusted
retrospectively, this change had no material impact on Occidental s financial
statements. 

          Beginning
January 1, 2009, Occidental adopted new disclosure requirements for its
derivative and hedging activities as a result of new accounting guidance issued
by the FASB in March 2008. 

          Beginning
January 1, 2009, Occidental prospectively adopted the deferred portion of new
accounting guidance related to the application of the measurement and disclosure
framework of non-financial assets and liabilities that are recorded at fair
value on a non-recurring basis.  This new guidance was issued by the
FASB in February 2008. 

          Beginning
January 1, 2009, Occidental adopted new accounting guidance related to the
accounting and disclosure requirements for business combinations.  The
new guidance was issued by the FASB in December 2007 and April 2009 and had no
material impact on Occidental s financial statements upon adoption. 

          On January
1, 2009, Occidental adopted new accounting guidance affecting the presentation
and disclosure requirements related to noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries.
Occidental adopted this new guidance prospectively, except for the presentation
and disclosure requirements which were applied retrospectively to all periods
presented. These new requirements were issued in December 2007 and had no
material impact on Occidental s financial statements upon adoption. 

48 

Note 4 

Inventories 

Net
carrying values of inventories valued under the LIFO method were approximately
$175 million and $166 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.  Inventories consisted of the following: 

Note 5 

Long-term Debt 

Long-term
debt consisted of the following: 

In July
2009, Occidental repaid its $600 million debt associated with Dolphin Energy's
debt.  Also, in July 2009, Dolphin Energy refinanced its debt on a
limited-recourse basis.  Occidental provided guarantees limited to
certain political and other events. The fair value of these guarantees was
immaterial.  At December 31, 2009, the notional amount was
approximately $300 million, which represented a substantial majority of
Occidental's total guarantees. 

          In May
2009, Occidental issued $750 million of 4.125-percent senior unsecured notes due
2016, receiving $740 million of net proceeds.  Interest on the notes
will be payable semi-annually in arrears on June 1 and December 1 of each
year. 

          In October
2008, Occidental issued $1 billion of 7-percent senior unsecured notes due 2013,
receiving $985 million of net proceeds. Interest on the notes will be payable
semi-annually in arrears on May 1 and November 1 of each year. 

          Occidental
has a $1.5 billion bank credit facility (Credit Facility) through September
2012, which adjusts to $1.4 billion in September 2011.  The Credit
Facility provides for the termination of the loan commitments and requires
immediate repayment of any outstanding amounts if certain events of default
occur or if Occidental files for bankruptcy.  Up to $350 million of
the Credit Facility is available in the form of letters of
credit.  Occidental did not draw down any amounts under the Credit
Facility during 2009.  Available but unused lines of committed bank
credit totaled approximately $1.5 billion at December 31, 2009. 

          None of
Occidental's committed bank credits contain material adverse change clauses or
debt ratings triggers that could restrict Occidental's ability to borrow under
these lines.  Occidental's credit facilities and debt agreements do
not contain ratings triggers that could terminate bank commitments or accelerate
debt in the event of a ratings downgrade.  Borrowings under the Credit
Facility bear interest at various benchmark rates, including LIBOR, plus a
margin based on Occidental's senior debt ratings.  Additionally,
Occidental paid an annual facility fee of 0.05 percent in 2009 on the total
commitment amount, which was based on Occidental's senior debt
ratings. 

49 

In May
2007, Occidental redeemed all $276 million of the outstanding principal amount
of its 8.25-percent Vintage senior notes due 2012.  In January 2007,
Occidental completed cash tender offers for portions of various debt instruments
totaling $659 million in principal amount.  The redemption and
repurchases resulted in a pre-tax interest expense of $167 million. 

          At
December 31, 2009, minimum principal payments on long-term debt subsequent to
December 31, 2009 aggregated $2.8 billion, of which $239 million is due in 2010,
$68 million in 2011, $368 million in 2012, $1.0 billion in 2013, zero in 2014,
zero in 2015 and $1.1 billion thereafter. 

          As of
December 31, 2009, under the most restrictive covenants of its financing
agreements, Occidental had substantial capacity for additional unsecured
borrowings, the payment of cash dividends and other distributions on, or
acquisitions of, Occidental stock. 

          Occidental
estimates the fair value of fixed-rate debt based on the quoted market prices
for those instruments or on quoted market yields for similarly rated debt
instruments, taking into account their maturities.  The estimated fair
values of Occidental s debt, at December 31, 2009 and 2008, were approximately
$3.1 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, compared to carrying values of
approximately $2.8 billion and $2.7 billion,
respectively.  Occidental's exposure to changes in interest rates
relates primarily to its variable-rate, long-term debt obligations, and is not
expected to be material.  As of December 31, 2009, variable-rate debt
constituted approximately four percent of Occidental's total debt. 

Note 6 

Lease Commitments 

The
present value of minimum capital lease payments, net of the current portion,
totaled $25 million at both December 31, 2009 and 2008.  These amounts
are included in other liabilities. 

          Operating
and capital lease agreements, which include leases for manufacturing facilities,
office space, railcars and tanks, frequently include renewal or purchase options
and require Occidental to pay for utilities, taxes, insurance and maintenance
expense. 

          At
December 31, 2009, future net minimum lease payments for capital and
noncancelable operating leases (excluding oil and gas and other mineral leases,
utilities, taxes, insurance and maintenance expense) were the
following: 

Rental
expense for operating leases, net of sublease rental income, was $172 million in
2009, $178 million in 2008 and $196 million in 2007.  Rental expense
was net of sublease income of $4 million, $7 million and $7 million in 2009,
2008 and 2007, respectively. 

Note 7 

Derivative Activities 

Objective
  Strategy 

          Occidental
has used derivatives to reduce its long-term exposure to price volatility on a
small portion of its oil and gas production.  Through its low-risk
marketing and trading activities and within its established policy controls and
procedures, Occidental has also used derivative instruments, including a
combination of short-term futures, forwards, options and swaps to improve
realized prices for its oil and gas. 

          Additionally,
Occidental, through its Phibro subsidiary, will also engage in trading
activities using derivatives for the purpose of generating profits mainly from
market price changes of commodities. 

          Refer to
Note 1 for Occidental s accounting policy on derivatives. 

50 

Cash-Flow
Hedges 

          Occidental
holds a series of collar agreements that qualify as cash-flow hedges for the
sale of approximately 2 percent of its crude oil production.  These
agreements continue to the end of 2011.  The following table presents
the daily quantities and weighted-average strike prices of Occidental's collar
positions as of December 31, 2009: 

In 2009,
Occidental entered into financial swap agreements related to the sale of
a portion of its natural gas production from the Rockies that qualify
as cash-flow hedges. The following table presents the daily quantities
and weighted-average hedged prices that will be received by Occidental as
of December 31, 2009: 

Occidental s
marketing and trading operations store natural gas purchased from third parties
at Occidental s leased storage facilities.  Derivative instruments are
used to fix margins on the future sales of the stored volumes.  These
agreements continue through 2010.  As of December 31, 2009, Occidental
had approximately 28 billion cubic feet of natural gas held in storage.
Occidental has designated the forecasted sale of approximately 24 billion cubic
feet of natural gas from storage as cash-flow hedges. 

          The
following table presents the pre-tax gains (losses) recognized in and
reclassified from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (AOCI) and recognized
in income (net sales), including any hedge ineffectiveness, for derivative
instruments classified as cash-flow hedges for the year ended December 31,
2009: 

Cash-Flow
      Hedges 

                    (in
      millions) 

Gains
      (Losses) Recognized 

                    in
      AOCI   

                    Effective
      Portion 

Amount
      of (Gains) Losses Reclassified from AOCI into Income   

                    Effective
      Portion 

Gains
      Recognized 

                    in
      Income   

                    Ineffective
      Portion 

Commodity
      contracts     

Occidental s
      crude oil production 

$ 

(162 

) 

$ 

74 

$ 

10 

Occidental s
      natural gas production 

(2 

) 

Commodity
      contracts     

Natural
      gas storage 

19 

(50 

) 

Total 

$ 

(145 

) 

$ 

24 

$ 

10 

The
following table summarizes net after-tax derivative activity recorded in AOCI
for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008: 

During the
next twelve months, Occidental expects that approximately $106   million of net after-tax
derivative losses included in AOCI, based on their valuation as of December 31,
2009, will be reclassified into income. 

Derivatives
Not Designated as Hedging Instruments 

          Occidental s
third-party marketing and trading activities have been focused on purchasing
crude oil and natural gas for resale from partners, producers and third parties
whose oil and gas supply is located near the midstream and marketing assets;
such as pipelines, processing plants and storage facilities, that are owned or
leased by Occidental.  These purchases allow Occidental to aggregate
volumes to maximize prices received for Occidental s production.  The
aggregate volumes and durations of these third-party marketing and trading
purchase and sales contracts generally approximate each other.  In
addition, Occidental s trading unit, Phibro, uses derivative instruments to
profit from market price changes. 

51 

The
following table presents gross volumes of Occidental s commodity derivatives not
designated as hedging instruments as of December 31, 2009: 

Commodity 

Volumes 

Occidental s
      production sales contracts 

Crude
      oil 

9
      million barrels 

Third-party
      marketing and trading activities 

Purchase
      contracts 

Crude
      oil 

161
      million barrels 

Natural
      gas 

1,386
      billion cubic feet 

Electricity 

408,000
      megawatt hours 

Sales
      contracts 

Crude
      oil 

182
      million barrels 

Natural
      gas 

1,556
      billion cubic feet 

Electricity 

408,000
      megawatt hours 

In
addition, Occidental has certain other commodity trading contracts, including
agricultural products, metals, precious metals and foreign exchange contracts,
which were not material to Occidental as of December 31, 2009. 

          Approximately
$61 million of gains from derivatives not designated as hedging instruments were
recognized in net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009. 

          The
following table presents the gross fair value of Occidental s outstanding
derivatives as of December 31, 2009: 

Asset
      Derivatives 

Fair 

Liability
      Derivatives 

Fair 

(in
      millions) 

Balance
      Sheet Location 

Value 

Balance
      Sheet Location 

Value 

Cash-flow
      hedges  (a)  

Marketing
      and trading assets and other 

$ 

2 

Accrued
      liabilities 

$ 

(168 

) 

Commodity
      contracts 

Long-term
      receivables and other assets, net 

5 

Deferred
      credits and other liabilities 

(174 

) 

$ 

7 

$ 

(342 

) 

Derivatives
      not designated as hedging instruments  (a)  

Marketing
      and trading assets and other 

$ 

776 

Accrued
      liabilities 

$ 

(789 

) 

Commodity
      contracts 

Long-term
      receivables and other assets, net 

72 

Deferred
      credits and other liabilities 

(69 

) 

848 

(858 

) 

Total
      gross fair value of derivatives 

855 

(1,200 

) 

Less:
      counterparty netting and cash collateral 

(642 

) 

648 

Total
      net fair value of derivatives 

$ 

213 

$ 

(552 

) 

(a) 

The
      above fair values are presented at gross amounts, including when the
      derivatives are subject to master netting arrangements and qualify for net
      presentation in the consolidated balance sheet. 

See Note
15 for fair value measurement disclosures on derivatives. 

Credit Risk 

          A majority
of Occidental s derivative transactions are exchange-traded contracts, which are
subject to nominal credit risk as a significant portion of these transactions
are executed on a daily margin basis.  Cash collateral of $222 million
deposited by Occidental with clearing houses ,  which has not been reflected
in the derivative fair value tables, is included in the marketing and trading
assets and other balance as of December 31, 2009. 

          In
addition, Occidental executes a portion of its derivative transactions in the
over-the-counter (OTC) market with various high-credit-quality
counterparties.  Occidental is subject to counterparty credit risk to
the extent the counterparty to the derivatives is unable to meet its settlement
commitments.  Occidental manages this credit risk by
selecting 

52 

counterparties
that it believes to be financially strong, by spreading the credit risk among
many such counterparties, and by entering into master netting arrangements with
the counterparties, as appropriate.  Occidental actively monitors the
creditworthiness of each counterparty and records valuation adjustments to
reflect counterparty risk, if necessary.  Certain of Occidental's OTC
derivative instruments contain collateral thresholds.  If the credit
exposure exceeds collateral thresholds or if Occidental s or the counterparty s
credit rating is reduced by the major credit rating agencies, Occidental or the
counterparty may be required to post collateral via available cash or letters of
credit to satisfy the difference between the current exposure and the negotiated
credit threshold.  As of December 31, 2009, Occidental had a net
liability of $357 million for which Occidental has posted $43 million of
collateral in the normal course of business.  This net liability
amount of $357 million represents the fair value of derivative instruments with
credit-risk-related contingent features.  Occidental believes that if
it had received a one-notch reduction in its credit rating, it would not have
resulted in a material change in its collateral-posting requirements as of
December 31, 2009. 

Foreign Currency Risk 

          Occidental s
foreign operations have currency risk.  Occidental manages its
exposure primarily by balancing monetary assets and liabilities and maintaining
cash positions in foreign currencies only at levels necessary for operating
purposes.  Most international crude oil sales are denominated in U.S.
dollars.  Additionally, all of Occidental s consolidated foreign oil
and gas subsidiaries have the U.S. dollar as the functional
currency.  The effect of exchange rates on transactions in foreign
currencies is included in periodic income. 

Note 8 

Environmental Liabilities and
  Expenditures 

Occidental s
operations are subject to stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws and
regulations relating to improving or maintaining environmental
quality.  Occidental s environmental compliance costs have generally
increased over time and could continue to rise in the
future.  Occidental factors environmental expenditures for its
operations into its business planning process as an integral part of producing
quality products responsive to market demand. 

Environmental Remediation 

          The laws
that require or address environmental remediation, including CERCLA and similar
federal, state, local and foreign laws, may apply retroactively and regardless
of fault, the legality of the original activities or the current ownership or
control of sites.  OPC or certain of its subsidiaries participate in
or actively monitor a range of remedial activities and government or private
proceedings under these laws with respect to alleged past practices at
operating, closed and third-party sites.  Remedial activities may
include one or more of the following:  investigation involving
sampling, modeling, risk assessment or monitoring; cleanup measures including
removal, treatment or disposal; or operation and maintenance of remedial
systems.  The environmental proceedings seek funding or performance of
remediation and, in some cases, compensation for alleged property damage,
punitive damages, civil penalties, injunctive relief and government oversight
costs. 

          As of
December 31, 2009, Occidental participated in or monitored remedial activities
or proceedings at 168 sites.  The following table presents
Occidental s environmental remediation reserves as of December 31, 2009, 2008
and 2007, the current portion of which is included in accrued liabilities ($84
million in 2009, $68 million in 2008 and $69 million in 2007) and the remainder
in deferred credits and other liabilities   other ($319 million in 2009, $371
million in 2008 and $388 million in 2007).  The reserves are grouped
as environmental remediation sites listed or proposed for listing by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency on the CERCLA NPL (NPL sites) and three
categories of non-NPL sites   third-party sites, Occidental-operated sites and
closed or non-operated Occidental sites. 

As of
December 31, 2009, Occidental s environmental reserves exceeded $10 million each
at 14 of the 168 sites described above, and 118 of the sites had reserves from
$0 to $1 million each. 

53 

As of
December 31, 2009, two landfills in western New York owned by Occidental
accounted for 70 percent of its reserves associated with NPL
sites.  Maxus Energy Corporation has retained the liability and
indemnified Occidental for 17 of the remaining NPL sites. 

          As of
December 31, 2009, Maxus has also retained the liability and indemnified
Occidental for 16 of the 81 third-party sites.  Two of the remaining
65 third-party sites   a former copper mining and smelting operation in
Tennessee and an active refinery in Louisiana where Occidental reimburses the
current owner and operator for certain remedial activities   accounted for 54
percent of Occidental s reserves associated with these sites. 

          Five sites
  chemical plants in Kansas, Louisiana and New York and two groups of oil and
gas properties in the southwestern United States   accounted for 71 percent of
the reserves associated with the Occidental-operated sites.  Five
other sites   former chemical plants in Delaware, Michigan, Tennessee and
Washington and a closed coal mine in Pennsylvania   accounted for 75 percent of
the reserves associated with closed or non-operated Occidental
sites. 

          The
following table shows environmental reserve activity for the past three
years: 

Occidental
expects to expend funds corresponding to about half of the current environmental
reserves over the next four years and the balance over the subsequent ten or
more years.  Occidental believes its range of reasonably possible
additional loss beyond those liabilities recorded for environmental remediation
at the sites described above could be up to $375 million. 

Environmental Costs 

          Occidental s
environmental costs, some of which include estimates, are shown below for each
segment for the years ended December 31: 

Operating
expenses are incurred on a continual basis.  Capital expenditures
relate to longer-lived improvements in currently operating
properties.  Remediation expenses relate to existing conditions from
past operations. 

Note 9 

Lawsuits, Claims, Commitments, Contingencies and Related
      Matters 

OPC or
certain of its subsidiaries are named, in the normal course of business, in
lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that seek, among other things,
compensation for alleged personal injury, breach of contract, property damage,
punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses, or injunctive or declaratory
relief.  OPC or certain of its subsidiaries also have been named in
proceedings under CERCLA and similar federal, state, local and foreign
environmental laws.  These environmental proceedings seek funding or
performance of remediation and, in some cases, compensation for alleged property
damage, punitive damages, civil penalties and injunctive relief; however,
Occidental is usually one of many companies in these proceedings and has to date
been successful in sharing response costs with other financially sound
companies.  With respect to all such lawsuits, claims and proceedings,
including environmental proceedings, Occidental accrues reserves when it is
probable a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably
estimated. 

          Lawsuits
filed in Nicaragua against Occidental Chemical Corporation (OxyChem) and other
companies that once manufactured or used the pesticide dibromochloropropane
(DBCP) claim damages of several billion dollars for alleged personal
injuries.  In the opinion of management, the claims against OxyChem
are without merit because, among other things, the DBCP it manufactured was
never sold or used in Nicaragua.  Nicaraguan courts have entered
judgments of approximately $900 million against four defendants, including
OxyChem, which, if affirmed and ultimately enforced, would 

54 

be shared
equally among the defendants.  When the plaintiffs attempted to
enforce one judgment in Miami, the federal district court granted summary
judgment in favor of OxyChem and refused to enforce the judgment, finding the
Nicaraguan court lacked personal jurisdiction because OxyChem DBCP was not used
in Nicaragua, OxyChem did not have sufficient contacts with Nicaragua, and other
grounds for dismissal.  OxyChem has no assets in Nicaragua and, in the
opinion of management, no such Nicaraguan judgment would be enforceable in the
United States. 

          During the
course of its operations, Occidental is subject to audit by tax authorities for
varying periods in various federal, state, local and foreign tax
jurisdictions.  While the audits for taxable years through 2007 have
concluded for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the 2008 and 2009 taxable years
are currently under audit by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service pursuant to its
compliance assurance program.  Foreign government tax authorities are
in various stages of auditing Occidental, and income taxes for taxable years
from 2000 through 2009 remain subject to examination in certain
jurisdictions.  During the course of tax audits, disputes have arisen
and other disputes may arise as to facts and matters of law. 

          Occidental
has entered into agreements providing for future payments to secure terminal and
pipeline capacity, drilling rigs and services, electrical power, steam and
certain chemical raw materials.  Occidental has certain other
commitments under contracts, guarantees and joint ventures, including purchase
commitments for goods and services at market-related prices and certain other
contingent liabilities.  At December 31, 2009, commitments for major
fixed and determinable capital expenditures during 2010 and thereafter were
approximately $1.2 billion. 

          Occidental
has indemnified various parties against specified liabilities that those parties
might incur in the future in connection with purchases and other transactions
that they have entered into with Occidental.  These indemnities
usually are contingent upon the other party incurring liabilities that reach
specified thresholds.  As of December 31, 2009, Occidental is not
aware of circumstances that it believes would reasonably be expected to lead to
future indemnity claims against it in connection with these transactions that
would result in payments materially in excess of reserves. 

          The
ultimate amount of losses and the timing of any such losses that OPC and its
subsidiaries may incur resulting from currently outstanding lawsuits, claims and
proceedings, audits, commitments, contingencies and related matters cannot be
determined reliably at this time.  If these matters were ultimately
resolved unfavorably at amounts substantially exceeding Occidental s reserves,
an outcome not currently expected, it is possible that such outcome could have a
material adverse effect upon Occidental s consolidated financial position or
results of operations.  However, after taking into account reserves,
management does not expect the ultimate resolution of any of these matters to
have a material adverse effect upon Occidental s consolidated financial position
or results of operations. 

Note 10 

Domestic and Foreign Income
Taxes 

The
domestic and foreign components of income from continuing operations before
domestic and foreign income taxes and net of noncontrolling interest amounts
were as follows: 

The
provisions (credits) for domestic and foreign income taxes on continuing
operations consisted of the following: 

55 

The
following is a reconciliation, stated as a percentage of pre-tax income, of the
United States statutory federal income tax rate to Occidental s effective tax
rate on income from continuing operations: 

The tax
effects of temporary differences resulting in deferred income taxes at December
31, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: 

Included
in total deferred tax assets was a current portion aggregating $280 million and
$200 million as of   December
31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, that was reported in prepaid expenses and
other.  Total deferred tax assets were $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion
as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, the noncurrent portion of which
is netted against deferred tax liabilities. 

          Occidental
has, as of December 31, 2009, foreign tax credit carryforwards of $426 million,
which expire in varying amounts through 2019 and various state operating loss
carryforwards, which have varying carryforward periods through
2025.  Occidental establishes a valuation allowance against net
operating losses and other deferred tax assets to the extent it believes future
benefit from these assets will not be realized in the statutory carryforward
periods.  Substantially all of Occidental's valuation allowance is
provided for foreign tax credit and state operating loss
carryforwards. 

          A deferred
tax liability has not been recognized for temporary differences related to
unremitted earnings of certain consolidated foreign subsidiaries aggregating
approximately $5.5 billion at December 31, 2009, as it is Occidental s
intention, generally, to reinvest such earnings permanently.  If the
earnings of these foreign subsidiaries were not indefinitely reinvested, an
additional deferred tax liability of approximately $85 million would be
required, assuming utilization of available foreign tax credits. 

          The
discontinued operations include an income tax benefit of $2 million in 2009, a
charge of $29 million in 2008 and a charge of $141 million in 2007. 

          Additional
paid-in capital was credited $24 million in 2009, $77 million in 2008 and $43
million in 2007 for an excess tax benefit from the exercise of certain
stock-based compensation awards. 

          As of
December 31, 2009, Occidental had liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits of
approximately $52 million included in deferred credits and other liabilities  
other, all of which, if subsequently recognized, would have affected
Occidental s effective tax rate. 

56 

A
reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits
is as follows: 

Occidental
records estimated potential interest and penalties related to liabilities for
unrecognized tax benefits in the provisions for domestic and foreign income and
other taxes and these amounts were not material for the years ended December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007. 

          Occidental
is subject to audit by various tax authorities in varying
periods.  See Note 9 for a discussion of these matters. 

          It is
unlikely that Occidental s liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits related to
existing matters would increase or decrease within the next twelve months by a
material amount.  Occidental cannot reasonably estimate a range of
potential changes in such benefits due to the unresolved nature of the various
audits. 

Note 11 

Stockholders  Equity 

The
following is an analysis of common stock issuances: 

Treasury Stock 

          Occidental
has had a 95-million share authorization in place since 2008 for its share
repurchase program; however, the program does not obligate Occidental to acquire
any specific number of shares and may be discontinued at any time.  In
2008 and 2007, Occidental purchased 19.8 million and 20.6 million shares,
respectively, under the program at an average cost of $76.33 and $54.75 per
share, respectively. 

          Additionally,
Occidental purchased shares from the trustee of its defined contribution savings
plan during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. 

Nonredeemable Preferred Stock 

          Occidental
has authorized 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock with a par value of $1.00
per share.  At   December
31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, Occidental had no outstanding shares of preferred
stock. 

Earnings Per Share 

          As
discussed in Note 3, Occidental adopted new accounting guidance for EPS on
January 1, 2009.  Under this new accounting guidance, Occidental's
instruments containing rights to nonforfeitable dividends granted in share-based
payment transactions are considered participating securities prior to vesting,
and, therefore, have been included in the earnings allocations in computing
basic and diluted EPS under the two-class method. 

57 

Basic EPS
was computed by dividing net income attributable to common stock by the
weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during each period, net of
treasury shares and including vested but unissued shares and share units. The
computation of diluted EPS further reflected the dilutive effect of stock
options and unvested stock awards. The following table presents the calculation
of basic and diluted EPS for the years ended December 31: 

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 

          Accumulated
other comprehensive loss consisted of the following after-tax
losses: 

(a) 

See
      Note 13 for further information. 

Note 12 

Stock-Based Incentive
Plans 

Occidental
has established several Plans that allow it to issue stock-based awards in the
form of RSUs, Options, SARs, PSAs and TSRIs.  At December 31, 2009, an
aggregate of 66 million shares of Occidental common stock were reserved for
issuance under outstanding awards and approximately 54 million shares were
available for future awards.  During 2009, non-employee directors were
granted awards for 63,134 shares of restricted stock that fully vested on the
grant date.  Compensation expense for these awards was measured using
the quoted market price of Occidental's common stock on the grant date and was
fully recognized at that time. 

The table
below summarizes certain stock-based incentive amounts for the past three
years: 

(a) 

Includes
      cash paid under the cash-settled SARs and the cash-settled portion of the
      PSAs and RSUs. 

(b) 

As
      measured on the vesting date for the stock-settled portion of the RSUs and
      PSAs. 

58 

As of
December 31, 2009, there was $174 million of pre-tax unrecognized compensation
expense, based on year-end valuation, related to all unvested stock-based
incentive award grants.  This expense is expected to be recognized
over a weighted-average period of 2.4 years. 

RSUs 

          Certain
employees are awarded the right to receive cash-settled RSUs, which are
equivalent in value to actual shares of Occidental common stock but are paid in
cash at the time of vesting.  These awards vest either in total over
two years or ratably over three years after the grant date and can be forfeited
or accelerated under certain conditions.  For those awards which vest
in total over two years, dividend equivalents are accumulated during the vesting
period and are paid when they vest.  For those awards which vest
ratably, dividend equivalents are paid during the vesting period.  The
weighted-average, grant-date fair values of these awards granted in 2009, 2008
and 2007 were $66.43, $76.23 and $61.90 per share, respectively. 

          Certain
employees are awarded the right to receive stock-settled RSUs that vest ratably
over three or five years from the grant date and can be forfeited or accelerated
under certain conditions.  Dividend equivalents are paid during the
vesting period.  There were no such awards granted in 2009 and the
2008 and 2007 grants were immaterial. 

          A summary
of changes in Occidental s unvested cash- and stock-settled RSUs during the year
ended December 31, 2009 is presented below: 

Stock Options and SARs 

Certain
employees have been granted Options that are settled in stock and SARs that are
settled either only in stock or only in cash.  No Options or SARs have
been granted since 2006 and all outstanding awards are
vested.  Exercise prices of the Options and SARs were equal to the
quoted market value of Occidental s stock on the grant
date.  Generally, the Options and SARs vest ratably over three years
from the grant date with a maximum term of ten years.  These Options
and SARs may be forfeited or accelerated under certain
circumstances. 

          The fair
value of each Option, stock-settled SAR or cash-settled SAR is initially
measured on the grant date using the Black Scholes option valuation
model.  The expected life is estimated based on the actual
weighted-average life of historical exercise activity of the grantee population
at the grant date.  The volatility factors are based on the historical
volatilities of Occidental common stock over the expected lives as estimated on
the grant date.  The risk-free interest rate is the implied yield
available on zero coupon T-notes (US Treasury Strip) at the grant date with a
remaining term equal to the expected life.  The dividend yield is the
expected annual dividend yield over the expected life, expressed as a percentage
of the stock price on the grant date.  Estimates of fair value may not
accurately predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by
employees who receive stock-based incentive awards, and subsequent events may
not be indicative of the reasonableness of the original estimates of fair value
made by Occidental. 

The
following is a summary of Option and SAR transactions during the year ended
December 31, 2009: 

59 

Performance-Based Awards 

          Occidental
had certain performance-based restricted awards granted in July 2006 that vested
in 2009. 

PSAs
and TSRIs 

          Certain
executives are awarded PSAs and TSRIs that vest at the end of the four-year
period following the grant date if performance targets are certified as being
met.  TSRIs granted in July 2009 had payouts that ranged from 0 to 200
percent of the target award that would settle, once certified, 60 percent in
stock and 40 percent in cash.  TSRIs granted in July 2008 and 2007 had
payouts that ranged from 0 to 150 percent of the target award that would settle,
once certified, equally in stock and cash.  PSAs granted prior to July
2007 had payouts that ranged from 0 to 200 percent of the target award and
provided that, once certified, the first 100 percent payout would settle only in
stock and any payout in excess of 100 percent would settle in
cash.  Dividend equivalents for PSA and TSRI target shares are paid
during the performance period regardless of the payout range or settlement
provision. 

          The fair
values of PSAs and TSRIs are initially determined based on the underlying value
of Occidental's common stock and estimated payout level.  The estimate
of the ultimate payout level of the PSAs and TSRIs are determined on the grant
date using a Monte Carlo simulation model based on Occidental's assumptions,
noted in the following table, and the volatility from corresponding peer
companies.  The expected life is based on the vesting period
(Term).  The risk-free interest rate is the implied yield available on
zero coupon T-notes (US Treasury Strip) at the time of grant with a remaining
term equal to the Term.  The dividend yield is the expected annual
dividend yield over the Term, expressed as a percentage of the stock price on
the grant date.  Estimates of fair value may not accurately predict
actual future events or the value ultimately realized by the employees who
receive the awards, and subsequent events may not be indicative of the
reasonableness of the original estimates of fair value made by
Occidental. 

The
grant-date assumptions used in the Monte Carlo simulation models for the
estimated payout level of PSAs and TSRIs were as follows: 

The fair
value of the cash-settled portion of the PSAs and TSRIs are updated quarterly
through vesting for changes in Occidental common stock price and changes in
estimated payout levels using a Monte Carlo simulation model and updated
assumptions.  Changes in value of the cash-settled portion of the PSAs
and TSRIs are recorded in compensation expense each
quarter.  Compensation expense is recognized ratably over the vesting
period for all awards, along with the quarterly change in the fair value of the
cash-settled portion of the PSAs and TSRIs. 

          A summary
of Occidental s unvested PSAs and TSRIs as of December 31, 2009 and changes
during the year ended December 31, 2009, is presented below: 

(a) 

Unvested
      awards and award grants are presented at the target
    payouts. 

(b) 

The
      weighted-average payout at vesting was 200 percent of the
      target. 

60 

Note
      13  

Retirement Plans and Postretirement
  Benefits 

Occidental
has various benefit plans for its salaried, domestic union and nonunion hourly,
and certain foreign national employees. 

Defined Contribution Plans 

          All
domestic employees and certain foreign national employees are eligible to
participate in one or more of the defined contribution retirement or savings
plans that provide for periodic contributions by Occidental based on
plan-specific criteria, such as base pay, age level and employee
contributions.  Certain salaried employees participate in a
supplemental retirement plan that provides restoration of benefits lost due to
governmental limitations on qualified retirement benefits.  The
accrued liabilities for the supplemental retirement plan were $95 million and
$97 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and Occidental
expensed $97 million in 2009, $93 million in 2008 and $86 million in 2007 under
the provisions of these defined contribution and supplemental retirement
plans. 

Defined Benefit Plans 

          Participation
in defined benefit plans is  limited and approximately
1,100 domestic and 2,100 foreign national employees, mainly union, nonunion
hourly and certain employees that joined Occidental from acquired operations
with grandfathered benefits, are currently accruing benefits  under these
plans. 

          Pension
costs for Occidental s defined benefit pension plans, determined by independent
actuarial valuations, are generally funded by payments to trust funds, which are
administered by independent trustees. 

Other Postretirement Benefit Plans 

          Occidental
provides medical and dental benefits and life insurance coverage for certain
active, retired and disabled employees and their eligible
dependents.  The benefits are generally funded by Occidental as the
benefits are paid during the year.  The total benefit costs, including
the postretirement costs, were approximately $161 million in 2009, $144 million
in 2008 and $131 million in 2007. 

Obligations and Funded Status 

          Occidental
recognizes the overfunded or underfunded amounts of its defined benefit pension
and postretirement plans in its financial statements and uses a measurement date
of December 31.  The following table shows the funding status of
Occidental's plans: 

61 

The  projected benefit
obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for
defined benefit pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess
of plan assets were $184 million, $161 million and $35 million, respectively, as
of December 31, 2009, and $388 million, $363 million and $233 million,
respectively, as of December 31, 2008.  The projected benefit
obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for
defined benefit pension  plans with plan assets in excess of the
accumulated benefit obligation were $399 million, $390 million and $447 million,
respectively, as of December 31, 2009, and $154 million, $146 million and $167
million, respectively, as of December 31, 2008. 

           Occidental has 401(h)
accounts established within certain defined benefit pension 
plans.  These plans allow Occidental to fund postretirement medical
benefits for employees at two of its operations.  Contributions to
these 401(h) accounts are made at Occidental's discretion.  All of
Occidental's other postretirement benefit plans are
unfunded.   

Amounts
recognized in the consolidated balance sheets consist of: 

At
December 31, 2009 and 2008, AOCI included the following after-tax
balances: 

Occidental
does not expect any plan assets to be returned during 2010. 

Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost and Other Amounts
Recognized in OCI 

(a) 

Settlement
      cost relates to benefit distributions made in 2007. 

The
estimated net loss and prior service cost for the defined  benefit pension plans that
will be amortized from AOCI into net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal
year are $12 million and $1 million, respectively.  The estimated net
loss and prior service cost for the defined benefit postretirement  plans
that will be amortized from AOCI into net periodic benefit cost over the next
fiscal year are $25 million and $1 million, respectively. 

Additional Information 

          Occidental s
defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plan obligations are
determined based on various assumptions and discount rates.  The
discount rate assumptions used are meant to reflect the interest rate at which
the obligations could effectively be settled on the measurement
date.  Occidental uses the fair value of assets to determine expected
return on plan assets in calculating pension expense.  Occidental
funds and expenses negotiated pension increases for domestic union employees
over the terms of the applicable collective bargaining agreements. 

62 

The
following table sets forth the weighted-average assumptions used to determine
Occidental's benefit obligation and net periodic benefit cost for domestic
plans: 

For
domestic pension plans and postretirement benefit plans, Occidental based the
discount rate on the Hewitt Bond Universe yield curve in 2009 and
2008.  The weighted-average rate of increase in future compensation
levels is consistent with Occidental s past and anticipated future compensation
increases for employees participating in retirement plans that determine
benefits using compensation.  The assumed long-term rate of return on
assets is estimated with regard to current market factors but within the context
of historical returns.  Occidental considers historical returns and
correlation of equities and fixed income securities and current market factors
such as inflation and interest rates. 

          For
pension plans outside the United States, Occidental based its discount rate on
rates indicative of government or investment grade corporate debt in the
applicable country, taking into account hyperinflationary environments when
necessary.  The discount rates used for the foreign pension plans
ranged from 1.5 percent to 12.0 percent at both December 31, 2009 and
2008.  The average rate of increase in future compensation levels
ranged from a low of 1.5 percent to a high of 12.0 percent in 2009, depending on
local economic conditions.  The expected long-term rate of return on
plan assets was 6.9 percent and 5.2 percent in excess of local inflation in 2009
and 2008, respectively. 

          The
postretirement benefit obligation was determined by application of the terms of
medical and dental benefits and life insurance coverage, including the effect of
established maximums on covered costs, together with relevant actuarial
assumptions and health care cost trend rates projected at an assumed Consumer
Price Index (CPI) increase of 2.55 percent and 2.25 percent as of December 31,
2009 and 2008, respectively.  Beginning in 1993, participants other
than certain union employees have paid for all medical cost increases in excess
of increases in the CPI.  For those union employees, the health care
cost trend rates were projected at annual rates ranging ratably from 9
percent in 2009 to 6 percent through the year 2015 and level
thereafter.  A 1-percent increase or a 1-percent decrease in these
assumed health care cost trend rates would result in an increase of $26 million
or a reduction of $25 million, respectively, in the postretirement benefit
obligation as of December 31, 2009, and a corresponding increase or reduction of
$2 million in interest cost in 2009.  The annual service costs would
not be materially affected by these changes. 

          The
actuarial assumptions used could change in the near term as a result of changes
in expected future trends and other factors that, depending on the nature of the
changes, could cause increases or decreases in the plan
liabilities. 

Fair Value of Pension and Postretirement Plan Assets 

          Occidental
employs a total return investment approach that uses a mix of equity and fixed
income investments to maximize the long-term return of plan assets at a prudent
level of risk.  The investments are monitored by Occidental s
Investment Committee in its role as fiduciary.  The Investment
Committee, consisting of senior Occidental executives, selects and employs
various external professional investment management firms to manage specific
investments across the spectrum of asset classes. The resulting aggregate
investment portfolio contains a diversified blend of equity and fixed-income
investments.  Equity investments are diversified across United States
and non-United States stocks, as well as differing styles and market
capitalizations.  Other asset classes such as private equity and real
estate may be used to enhance long-term returns while improving portfolio
diversification.  The target allocation of plan assets is 60 percent
equity securities and 40 percent debt securities.  Investment
performance is measured and monitored on an ongoing basis through quarterly
investment and manager guideline compliance reviews, annual liability
measurements, and periodic studies. 

          Pension
and postretirement plan assets are measured at fair value.  Common
stocks, publicly registered mutual funds, U.S. government securities, corporate
bonds, convertible bonds, and preferred stocks are valued using quoted market
prices in active markets when available.  When quoted market prices
are not available, these investments are valued using pricing models with
observable inputs from both active and non-active
markets.  Common/collective trusts are valued at the net asset value
(NAV) of the units provided by the fund issuer, which represents the quoted
price in a non-active market.  Collateral received for securities
loaned include investments in short-term investment funds.  The
short-term investment funds are valued at the NAV of the units provided by the
fund issuer.  Partnerships and joint ventures are valued using the
liquidation value, which approximates fair value.  The guaranteed
deposit account is valued using a composite market value factor, which
approximates fair value. 

63 

The fair
values of Occidental s pension plan assets by asset category are as follows (in
millions): 

(a) 

This
      category represents investment grade bonds of U.S. and non-U.S. issuers
      from diverse industries. 

(b) 

This
      category includes investment funds that primarily invest in U.S. and
      non-U.S. common stocks and fixed income securities. 

(c) 

This
      category represents investment in U.S. and non-U.S. common and preferred
      stocks from diverse industries. 

(d) 

Amount
      excludes net payables of $21 million as of December 31,
    2009. 

The
activity during the year ended December 31, 2009 for the assets using Level 3
fair value measurements was not significant. 

          Occidental
expects to contribute $11 million to its defined benefit pension plans during
2010. All of the contributions are expected to be in the form of
cash. 

          Estimated
future benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate,
are as follows: 

Note 14 

Investments
      and Related-Party Transactions 

At
December 31, 2009 and 2008, investments in unconsolidated entities, including
advances, comprised $1.7 billion and $1.3 billion of equity-method investments,
respectively. 

Equity Investments 

          At
December 31, 2009, Occidental s equity investments consisted mainly of a
24.5-percent interest in the stock of Dolphin Energy, an approximately
22-percent interest in the General Partner of Plains All-American Pipeline L.P.
and various other partnerships and joint ventures.  Equity investments
paid dividends of $139 million, $111 million and $33 million to Occidental in
2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  At December 31, 2009, cumulative
undistributed earnings of equity-method investees since their respective
acquisitions were $306 million.  At December 31, 2009, Occidental's
investments in equity investees exceeded the underlying equity in net assets by
$938 million, of which $174 million represents goodwill and $764 million relates
to assets, including intangibles, which are being amortized over their estimated
useful lives. 

64 

The
following table presents Occidental s ownership interest in the summarized
financial information of its equity-method investments: 

Occidental s
investment in Dolphin, which was acquired in 2002, consists of two separate
economic interests through which Occidental owns (i) a 24.5-percent undivided
interest in the assets and liabilities associated with a DPSA which is
proportionately consolidated in the financial statements; and (ii) a
24.5-percent interest in the stock of Dolphin Energy, which is accounted for as
an equity investment. 

          In
Ecuador, Occidental has a 14-percent interest in the Oleoducto de Crudos Pesados
Ltd. (OCP) oil export pipeline, which Occidental records as an equity
investment. 

          Occidental
has a 50-percent interest in Elk Hills Power, LLC (EHP), a limited liability
company that operates a gas-fired, power-generation plant in California, which
it accounts for as an equity-method investment. 

Related-Party Transactions 

          Occidental
purchases power, steam and chemicals from and sells oil, gas, chemicals and
power to certain of its equity investees at market-related
prices.  During 2009, 2008 and 2007, Occidental entered into the
following related-party transactions and had the following amounts due from or
to its related parties: 

65 

Note
      15 

Fair
      Value Measurements 

Fair Values - Recurring 

          The
following tables provide fair value measurement information for such assets and
liabilities that are measured on a recurring basis (in millions): 

(a) 

Represents
      the impact of netting assets, liabilities and collateral when a legal
      right of offset exists. 

Fair Values - Nonrecurring 

          At
year-end, Occidental evaluates its significant properties for potential
impairment.  Based on this annual impairment evaluation, certain
Argentine producing properties were impaired as of December 31,
2009.  The fair value of the PP E was $144 million, resulting in
an impairment charge of $170 million, and was measured using an income approach
based upon internal estimates of future production levels, prices, costs and a
discount rate, which were Level 3 inputs. 

Financial Instruments Fair Value 

          The
carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents and other on-balance-sheet
financial instruments, other than fixed-rate debt, approximate fair
value.  The cost, if any, to terminate off-balance-sheet financial
instruments is not significant. 

66 

Note
      16 

Industry
      Segments and Geographic Areas 

Occidental
conducts its continuing operations through three segments: (1) oil and gas; (2)
chemical; and (3) midstream and marketing.  The oil and gas segment
explores for, develops, produces and markets crude oil, including NGLs and
condensate, as well as natural gas.  The chemical segment manufactures
and markets basic chemicals, vinyls and other chemicals.  The
midstream and marketing segment gathers, treats, processes, transports, stores,
purchases and markets crude oil (including NGLs and condensate), natural gas,
CO 2 
and power.  It also trades around its assets, including pipelines and
storage capacity, and trades commodities and securities. 

          Earnings
of industry segments and geographic areas generally exclude income taxes,
interest income, interest expense, environmental remediation expenses,
unallocated corporate expenses and discontinued operations, but include gains
and losses from dispositions of segment and geographic area assets and income
from the segments  equity investments.  Intersegment sales are
generally made at prices approximately equal to those that the selling entity is
able to obtain in third-party transactions and eliminate upon
consolidation. 

          Identifiable
assets are those assets used in the operations of the
segments.  Corporate assets consist of cash, certain corporate
receivables and PP E, and the investment in Joslyn. 

67 

Footnotes:  

(a) 

Crude
      oil sales represented approximately 87 percent, 87 percent and 85 percent
      of the oil and gas segment net sales for the years ended December 31,
      2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(b) 

Total
      product sales for the chemical segment were as follows: 

(c) 

Total
      sales for the midstream and marketing segment were as
    follows: 

(d) 

Represents
      amount attributable to common stock after deducting noncontrolling
      interest amounts of $51 million, $116 million and $75 million for 2009,
      2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(e) 

The
      2009 amount includes a $170 million fourth quarter pre-tax charge for the
      impairment of certain Argentine producing properties and an $8 million
      pre-tax charge for the termination of rig contracts.  The 2008
      amount includes a pre-tax charge of $599 million for asset impairments,
      including undeveloped acreage in Argentina and Yemen and domestic
      producing properties, and a pre-tax charge of $58 million for termination
      of rig contracts.  The 2007 amount includes an after-tax gain of
      $412 million from the sale of Occidental s interest in a Russian joint
      venture, an after-tax gain of $112 million from certain litigation
      settlements, a pre-tax gain of $103 million from the sale of exploration
      properties, a pre-tax gain of $35 million from the sale of miscellaneous
      domestic oil and gas interests and a $74 million pre-tax loss from the
      exploration impairments. 

(f) 

Includes
      unallocated net interest expense, administration expense, environmental
      remediation and other pre-tax items noted in footnote (g)
      below. 

(g) 

Includes
      the following significant items affecting earnings for the years ended
      December 31: 

(h) 

Includes
      capital expenditures, capitalized interest and capitalized CO 2 , and
      excludes purchases of assets, net.  Also includes amounts
      attributable to the noncontrolling interest in a Colombian
      subsidiary. 

(i) 

Includes
      a pre-tax charge of $90 million for plant closure and
      impairments. 

Geographic Areas 

          In
millions 

(a) 

Sales
      are shown by individual country based on the location of the entity making
      the sale. 

68 

2009 Quarterly Financial Data  
      (Unaudited)  

Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation 

In
      millions, except per-share amounts 

and
      Subsidiaries 

(a) 

Includes
      a fourth quarter pre-tax charge of $170 million for asset impairments
      related to certain Argentine producing properties. 

(b) 

Represent
      amounts attributable to common stock after deducting noncontrolling
      interest amounts. 

69 

2008 Quarterly Financial Data  
      (Unaudited)  

Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation 

In
      millions, except per-share amounts 

and
      Subsidiaries 

(a) 

Includes
      a fourth quarter pre-tax charge of $599 million for asset impairments,
      including undeveloped acreage in Argentina and Yemen and domestic
      producing properties (included in depreciation, depletion and amortization
      expense), and a fourth quarter pre-tax charge of $58 million for rig
      contract terminations. 

(b) 

Includes
      a fourth quarter pre-tax charge of $90 million for plant closure and
      impairments. 

(c) 

Represent
      amounts attributable to common stock after deducting noncontrolling
      interest amounts. 

70 

Supplemental
Oil and Gas Informatio n
     ( Unaudited)  

The
following tables set forth Occidental s net interests in quantities of proved
developed and undeveloped reserves of crude oil, NGLs, condensate and natural
gas and changes in such quantities.  Unless otherwise indicated
hereafter, discussion of oil or oil and liquids refers to crude oil, condensate
and NGLs.  In addition, discussions of oil and gas production or
volumes, in general, refer to sales volumes unless context requires or it is
indicated otherwise.  The reserves are stated after applicable
royalties.  The estimated reserves include Occidental's economic
interests under production sharing contracts (PSCs) and other similar economic
arrangements. 

Occidental s
estimates of proved reserves and associated future net cash flows as of December
31, 2009 were made solely by Occidental s technical personnel and are the
responsibility of management.  The reserve estimation process involves
reservoir engineers, geoscientists, planning engineers and financial
analysts.  As part of this process, all reserves volumes are estimated
by a forecast of production rates, operating costs and capital
expenditures.  Price differentials between benchmark prices and
realized prices and specifics of each operating agreement are then used to
estimate the net reserves.  Production rate forecasts are derived by a
number of methods, including estimates from decline curve analyses, material
balance calculations that take into account the volume of substances replacing
the volumes produced and associated reservoir pressure changes, or computer
simulation of the reservoir performance.  Operating and capital costs
are forecasted using the current cost environment applied to expectations of
future operating and development activities. 

The
current Senior Director of Worldwide Reserves and Reservoir Engineering is
responsible for overseeing the preparation of reserve estimates, including the
internal audit and review of Occidental's oil and gas reserves
data.  The Senior Director has over 28 years of experience in the
upstream sector of the exploration and production business, and has held various
assignments in North America, Asia and Europe.  He is a three-time
past Chair of the Society of Petroleum Engineers Oil and Gas Reserves
Committee.  He is an American Association of Petroleum Geologists
(AAPG) Certified Petroleum Geologist and the current Chair of the AAPG Committee
on Resource Evaluation. He is a member of the Society of Petroleum Evaluation
Engineers, the Colorado School of Mines Potential Gas Committee and the UNECE
Expert Group on Resource Classification.  The Senior Director has
Bachelor of Science and Master of Science degrees in geology from Emory
University in Atlanta. 

Occidental
has a Corporate Reserves Review Committee (Reserves Committee), consisting of
senior corporate officers, to monitor and review Occidental's oil and gas
reserves.  The Reserves Committee reports to the Audit Committee of
Occidental's Board of Directors periodically during the year.  Since
2003, Occidental has retained Ryder Scott Company, L.P. (Ryder Scott),
independent petroleum engineering consultants, to review its annual oil and gas
reserve estimation processes. 

In 2009,
Ryder Scott compared Occidental s methods and procedures for estimating oil and
gas reserves to generally accepted industry standards and reviewed certain
pertinent facts interpreted and assumptions made in estimating the proved
reserves volumes, preparing the economic evaluations and determining reserves
classifications.  Ryder Scott reviewed the specific application of
such methods and procedures for selected oil and gas properties considered to be
a valid representation of Occidental s total reserves portfolio.  In
2009, Ryder Scott reviewed approximately 20 percent of Occidental s proved oil
and gas reserves.  Since being engaged in 2003, Ryder Scott has
reviewed the specific application of Occidental s reserve estimation methods and
procedures for approximately 71 percent of Occidental s proved oil and gas
reserves.  Management retains Ryder Scott to provide objective
third-party input on its methods and procedures and to gather industry
information applicable to Occidental s reserve estimation and reporting
process.  Ryder Scott has not been engaged to render an opinion as to
the reasonableness of reserves quantities reported by Occidental. 

Based on
its reviews, including the data, technical processes and interpretations
presented by Occidental, Ryder Scott has concluded that the overall procedures
and methodologies utilized in determining the proved reserves for the reviewed
properties as estimated by Occidental are reasonable and consistent with
generally accepted industry standards and comply with current Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) standards. 

71 

Estimates
of proved reserves are collected in a database and changes in this database are
reviewed by engineering personnel to ensure accuracy.  Finally,
reserves volumes and changes are reviewed and approved by Occidental's senior
management. 

Occidental
has classified its Horn Mountain (in 2007) and Pakistan (in 2007) operations as
discontinued operations on a retrospective basis and excluded them from all
tables in the Supplemental Oil and Gas Information section. 

Effective for the year ended December 31, 2009, the SEC
and the Financial Accounting Standards Board     modified certain disclosure requirements for oil and gas
properties.  As of December 31, 2009, Occidental conformed its
disclosures to the new guidelines as follows:  

additional
      disclosures were provided regarding proved undeveloped reserves, including
      investments and progress made to convert proved undeveloped reserves to
      proved developed reserves and reasons why any material amounts of proved
      undeveloped reserves remain undeveloped for five or more years;
      and 

general
      disclosures were incorporated regarding recording of new reserves,
      material additions to reserve estimates and, as appropriate, reasonable
      technologies used to establish reserves estimates and
      categories; 

proved
      oil and gas reserves were calculated using the unweighted arithmetic
      average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within the year
      instead of the year-end spot price; and 

the
      standard for reasonable certainty in determination of reserves was applied
      using its newly defined meaning of "a high degree of
      confidence." 

The new
rules also require that reserves coming from certain non-traditional sources and
technologies be included in reserves if they can be proved.  As of
December 31, 2009, Occidental did not have any reserves from non-traditional
sources. 

Historically,
Occidental s production volumes and reserves have been reported as a mix of
pre-tax and after-tax volumes while its revenues have reflected only pre-tax
sales.  This difference is caused by Occidental s PSCs in the Middle
East/North Africa where production is immediately taken and sold to pay the
local income tax.  Occidental has historically reported these volumes
as additional revenues and income taxes but not additional production and
reserves.  To simplify Occidental s reporting and to conform with
industry practice, Occidental has included these volumes in its reserves as of
December 31, 2009.  Beginning in 2010, Occidental s production volumes
and revenues will be reported on the same basis.   

72 

(a) 

Excludes
      proved oil reserves related to the noncontrolling interest of a Colombian
      subsidiary. 

(b) 

Proved
      reserve amounts relate to PSCs. 

(c) 

Excludes
      proved oil reserves of 30 million barrels as of December 31, 2006, related
      to Occidental's joint venture interest in Russia, which was sold in
      2007. 

(d) 

Approximately
      five percent of the proved developed reserves at December 31, 2009 are
      nonproducing, the majority of which are located in the United
      States. 

(e) 

The
      amount of Occidental's proved undeveloped reserves that have not been
      developed for over five years was not material. 

73 

(a) 

Proved
      reserve amounts relate to PSCs. 

(b) 

Approximately
      two percent of the proved developed reserves at December 31, 2009 are
      nonproducing, the majority of which are located in the United
      States. 

(c) 

The
      amount of Occidental's proved undeveloped reserves that have not been
      developed for over five years was not material. 

74 

Capitalized
costs relating to oil and gas producing activities and related accumulated
DD A were as follows: 

(a) 

Includes
      net capitalized cost of $31 million, $45 million and $36 million in 2009,
      2008 and 2007, respectively, related to the noncontrolling interest in a
      Colombian subsidiary. 

(b) 

The
      2009 and 2008 amounts primarily consist of Midcontinent Gas, Permian,
      California and Libya.  The 2007 amount primarily consists of
      California, Argentina and Libya. 

(c) 

Includes
      costs related to leases, exploration costs, lease and well equipment,
      other equipment, capitalized interest, asset retirement obligations and
      other costs. 

Costs
incurred in oil and gas property acquisition, exploration and development
activities, whether capitalized or expensed, were as follows: 

75 

The
results of operations of Occidental s oil and gas producing activities, which
exclude oil and gas trading activities and items such as asset dispositions,
corporate overhead, interest and royalties, were as follows: 

(a) 

Includes
      revenues of $118 million, $209 million and $144 million, production costs
      of $17 million, $21 million and $17 million, and results of operations of
      $49 million, $116 million and $69 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
      respectively, related to the noncontrolling interest in a Colombian
      subsidiary. 

(b) 

Revenues
      from net production exclude royalty payments and other
      adjustments. 

(c) 

United
      States federal income taxes reflect certain expenses related to oil and
      gas activities allocated for United States income tax purposes only,
      including allocated interest and corporate overhead. 

76 

Results per Unit of Production  

(a) 

Includes
      the noncontrolling interest in a Colombian subsidiary. 

(b) 

Natural
      gas volumes have been converted to barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) based
      on energy content of six thousand cubic feet (Mcf) of gas to one barrel of
      oil. 

(c) 

Revenues
      from net production exclude royalty payments and other
      adjustments. 

(d) 

United
      States federal income taxes reflect certain expenses related to oil and
      gas activities allocated for United States income tax purposes only,
      including allocated interest and corporate overhead. 

77 

Standardized Measure, Including Year-to-Year Changes Therein, of
Discounted Future Net Cash Flows 

          For
purposes of the following disclosures, future cash flows as of December 31, 2009
were computed by applying to Occidental's proved oil and gas reserves the
unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month
within the year ended December 31, 2009, unless prices were defined by
contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future
conditions.  Future cash flows as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 were
computed by applying year-end prices to Occidental s proved reserves, unless
prices were defined by contractual arrangements.  Future operating and
capital costs are forecasted using the current cost environment applied to
expectations of future operating and development activities.  Future
income tax expenses were computed by applying, generally, year-end statutory tax
rates (adjusted for permanent differences, tax credits, allowances and foreign
income repatriation considerations) to the estimated net future pre-tax cash
flows.  The discount was computed by application of a 10-percent
discount factor.  The calculations assumed the continuation of
existing economic, operating and contractual conditions at each of December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007.  Such arbitrary assumptions have not necessarily
proven accurate in the past.  Other assumptions of equal validity
would give rise to substantially different results. 

          The
realized prices used to calculate future cash flows vary by producing area and
market conditions.  For the 2009, 2008 and 2007 disclosures, the West
Texas Intermediate oil prices used were $61.18 per barrel, $44.60 per barrel and
$95.98 per barrel, respectively.  The Henry Hub gas prices used for
the 2009, 2008 and 2007 disclosures were $3.986 per MMBtu, $5.71 per MMBtu and
$6.795 per MMBtu, respectively. 

78 

Average
Sales Prices and Average Production Costs  of  Oil and
Gas 

          The
following table sets forth, for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2009, Occidental s approximate average sales prices and average
production costs of oil and gas.  Production costs are the costs
incurred in lifting the oil and gas to the surface and include gathering,
treating, primary processing, field storage, property and production taxes and
insurance on proved properties, but do not include depreciation, depletion and
amortization, royalties, income taxes, interest, general and administrative and
other expenses. 

(a) 

Sales
      prices include royalties with respect to certain of Occidental s
      interests. 

(b) 

Excludes
      income taxes owed by Occidental but paid by governmental entities on its
      behalf. 

(c) 

Natural
      gas volumes have been converted to BOE based on energy content of six Mcf
      of gas to one barrel of oil. 

(d) 

Excludes
      taxes other than on income of $1.77, $2.62 and $1.97 for the years ended
      December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

79 

Net
Productive and Dry   Exploratory and Development Wells Completed 

          The
following table sets forth, for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2009, Occidental s net productive and dry exploratory and
development wells completed. 

(a) 

Includes
      exploratory and development wells completed by the noncontrolling interest
      in a Colombian subsidiary. 

Productive
Oil and Gas Wells 

          The
following table sets forth, as of December 31, 2009, Occidental s productive oil
and gas wells (both producing and capable of production). 

(a) 

The
      numbers in parentheses indicate the number of wells with multiple
      completions. 

(b) 

Includes
      productive wells related to the noncontrolling interest in a Colombian
      subsidiary. 

(c) 

The
      total number of wells in which interests are owned. 

(d) 

The
      sum of fractional interests. 

80 

Participation
in Exploratory and Development Wells Being Drilled  

The
following table sets forth, as of December 31, 2009, Occidental s participation
in exploratory and development wells being drilled. 

(a) 

Includes
      the noncontrolling interest in a Colombian subsidiary. 

At
December 31, 2009, Occidental was participating in 179 pressure maintenance
projects in the United States, 16 in Latin America and 35 in the Middle
East/North Africa. 

Oil
and Gas Acreage 

          The
following table sets forth, as of December 31, 2009, Occidental s holdings of
developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage. 

(a) 

Includes
      acreage related to the noncontrolling interest of a Colombian
      subsidiary. 

(b) 

Acres
      spaced or assigned to productive wells. 

(c) 

Total
      acres in which interests are held. 

(d) 

Sum
      of the fractional interests owned based on working interests, or interests
      under PSCs and other economic arrangements. 

(e) 

Acres
      on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would
      permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas, regardless
      of whether the acreage contains proved reserves. 

81 

Oil
and Natural Gas Sales Volumes and Production Per Day 

          The
following tables set forth the sales volumes and production of oil and liquids
and natural gas per day for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 2009.  The differences between the sales volumes and production
per day are generally due to the timing of shipments at Occidental s
international locations where product is loaded onto tankers. 

(See
footnotes following the Production per Day table) 

82 

(a) 

Excludes
      sales and production volumes related to the noncontrolling interest in a
      Colombian subsidiary. 

(b) 

Natural
      gas volumes have been converted to BOE based on energy content of six Mcf
      of gas to one barrel of oil. 

83 

Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying
    Accounts 

Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation 

In
      millions 

and
      Subsidiaries 

84 

Item 9 

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
      and Financial Disclosure 

Not
applicable. 

Item 9a 

Controls and
Procedures 

Disclosure Controls and   Procedures   

Occidental's
Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer and its President
and Chief Financial Officer supervised and participated in Occidental's
evaluation of its disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) as of the end
of the period covered by this report.  Based upon that evaluation,
Occidental's Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer and
President and Chief Financial Officer concluded that Occidental's disclosure
controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2009. 

            There has
been no change in Occidental's internal control over financial reporting (as
defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934) during the fourth quarter of 2009 that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, Occidental's internal control over
financial reporting.  Management s Annual Assessment of and Report on
Occidental s Internal Control over Financial Reporting and the Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting are set forth in Item 8. 

Part
III 

Item 10 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
      Governance 

Occidental
has adopted a Code of Business Conduct (Code).  The Code applies to
the Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, President
and Chief Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer and persons performing
similar functions (Key Personnel).  The Code also applies to
Occidental's directors, its employees and the employees of entities it
controls.  The Code is posted at www.oxy.com.  Occidental
will satisfy any disclosure requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding an
amendment to, or waiver from, any provision of the Code with respect to its Key
Personnel or directors by disclosing the nature of that amendment or waiver on
its website. 

            This item
incorporates by reference the information regarding Occidental's directors
appearing under the caption "Election of Directors" and "Nominations for
Directors for Term Expiring in 2012" in Occidental's definitive proxy statement
filed in connection with its May 7, 2010, Annual Meeting of Stockholders (2010
Proxy Statement). The list of Occidental's executive officers and significant
employees and related information under "Executive Officers" set forth in Part I
of this report is incorporated by reference herein. 

Item 11 

Executive
Compensation 

This item
incorporates by reference the information appearing under the captions
"Executive Compensation" (except information under the sub-caption "   2009
Performance Highlights") and "Election of Directors   Information Regarding the
Board of Directors and Its Committees" in the 2010 Proxy Statement. 

Item 12 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
      Management 

This item
incorporates by reference the information with respect to security ownership
appearing under the caption "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management" in the 2010 Proxy Statement.  See also the information
under "Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans" in
Part II, Item 5 of this report. 

Item 13 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director
      Independence 

This item
incorporates by reference the information appearing under the caption "Election
of Directors   Information Regarding the Board of Directors and its Committees  
Independence", "   Corporate Governance" and "   Related Party Transactions" in
the 2010 Proxy Statement. 

Item 14 

Principal Accountant Fees and
  Services 

This item
incorporates by reference the information with respect to accountant fees and
services appearing under the captions "Ratification of Independent Auditors  
Audit and Other Fees" and "   Report of the Audit Committee" in the 2010 Proxy
Statement. 

85 

Part
IV 

Item 15 

Exhibits and Financial Statement
  Schedules 

The
agreements included as exhibits to this report are included to provide
information about their terms and not to provide any other factual or disclosure
information about Occidental or the other parties to the
agreements.  The agreements contain representations and warranties by
each of the parties to the applicable agreement that were made solely for the
benefit of the other agreement parties and: 

should
      not be treated as categorical statements of fact, but rather as a way of
      allocating the risk among the parties if those statements prove to be
      inaccurate; 

have
      been qualified by disclosures that were made to the other party in
      connection with the negotiation of the applicable agreement, which
      disclosures are not necessarily reflected in the
  agreement; 

may
      apply standards of materiality in a way that is different from the way
      investors may view materiality; and 

were
      made only as of the date of the applicable agreement or such other date or
      dates as may be specified in the agreement and are subject to more recent
      developments. 

(a)
(1) and (2). Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule 

            Reference
is made to Item 8 of the Table of Contents of this report, where these documents
are listed. 

(a)
(3). Exhibits 

2.1 *  

Agreement
      and Plan of Merger among Occidental Petroleum Corporation, Occidental
      Transaction 1, LLC and Vintage Petroleum, Inc., dated as of October 13,
      2005. (Disclosure schedules to this agreement have been omitted pursuant
      to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K) (filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Current
      Report on Form 8-K of Occidental dated October 13, 2005 (filed October 17,
      2005), File No. 1-9210). 

3.(i) *  

Restated
      Certificate of Incorporation of Occidental, dated November 12, 1999 (filed
      as Exhibit 3.(i) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Occidental for the
      fiscal year ended December 31, 1999, File No. 1-9210). 

3.(i)(a) *  

Certificate
      of Change of Location of Registered Office and of Registered Agent, dated
      July 6, 2001 (filed as Exhibit 3.1(i) to the Registration Statement on
      Form S-3 of Occidental, File No. 333-82246). 

3.(i)(b) *  

Certificate
      of Amendment of Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation, dated May 5, 2006 (filed as Exhibit 3.(i)(b) to the
      Annual Report on Form 10-K of Occidental for the fiscal year ended
      December 31, 2006, File No.1-9210). 

3.(i)(c) *  

Certificate
      of Amendment of Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation, dated May 1, 2009 (filed as Exhibit 3.(i)(c) to the
      Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Occidental for the fiscal quarter ended
      June 30, 2009, File No. 1-9210). 

3.(ii) *  

Bylaws
      of Occidental, as amended through May 1, 2009 (filed as Exhibit 3.(ii) to
      the Current Report on Form 8-K of Occidental dated May 1, 2009 (date of
      earliest event reported), File No. 1-9210). 

4.1 *  

Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation Amended and Restated Five-Year Credit Agreement,
      dated as of September 27, 2006, among Occidental; J.P. Morgan Securities
      Inc. and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as Co-Arrangers and Joint
      Bookrunners; JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as
      Co-Syndication Agents, BNP Paribas, Bank of America, N.A., Barclays Bank
      PLC and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, as Co-Documentation Agents, The
      Bank of Nova Scotia, as Administrative Agent (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the
      Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Occidental for the fiscal quarter ended
      September 30, 2006, File No. 1-9210). 

4.2 *  

Indenture
      (Senior Debt Securities), dated as of April 1, 1998, between Occidental
      and The Bank of New York, as Trustee (filed as Exhibit 4 to the
      Registration Statement on Form S-3 of Occidental, File No.
      333-52053). 

4.3 *  

Specimen
      certificate for shares of Common Stock (filed as Exhibit 4.9 to the
      Registration Statement on Form S-3 of Occidental, File No.
      333-82246). 

4.4 *  

Form
      of Officers  Certificate, dated October 21, 2008, establishing the terms
      and form of the 7% Notes due 2013 (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Current
      Report on Form 8-K of Occidental dated October 16, 2008 (date of earliest
      event reported), File No. 1-9210). 

4.5 *  

Form
      of 7% Note due 2013 (filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Current Report on Form
      8-K of Occidental dated October 16, 2008 (date of earliest event
      reported), File No. 1-9210). 

4.6 *  

Form
      of Officers  Certificate, dated May 15, 2009, establishing the terms and
      form of the 4.125% Notes due 2016 (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Current
      Report on Form 8-K of Occidental dated May 12, 2009 (date of earliest
      event reported), File No. 1-9210). 

4.7* 

Form
      of 4.125% Note due 2016 (filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Current Report on
      Form 8-K of Occidental dated May 12, 2009 (date of earliest event
      reported), File No. 1-9210). 

4.8 

Instruments
      defining the rights of holders of other long-term debt of Occidental and
      its subsidiaries are not being filed since the total amount of securities
      authorized under each of such instruments does not exceed 10 percent of
      the total assets of Occidental and its subsidiaries on a consolidated
      basis. Occidental agrees to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the
      Commission upon request. 

All
      of the Exhibits numbered 10.1 to 10.62 are management contracts and
      compensatory plans required to be identified specifically as responsive to
      Item 601(b)(10)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K pursuant to Item 15(b) of Form
      10-K. 

10.1 *  

Amended
      and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of October 9, 2008, between
      Occidental and Dr. Ray R. Irani (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly
      Report on Form 10-Q of Occidental for the quarterly period ended September
      30, 2008, File No. 1-9210). 

*
Incorporated herein by reference 

86 

*
Incorporated herein by reference 

87 

*
Incorporated herein by reference 

88 

10.48 *  

Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan Total Shareholder
      Return Incentive Award Agreement (Equity-based, Equity and Cash-Settled
      Award) (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of
      Occidental dated July 18, 2007 (date of earliest event reported), File No.
      1-9210). 

10.49 *  

Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan Long-Term Incentive
      Award Agreement (Equity-based, Cash-Settled Award) (filed as Exhibit 10.3
      to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Occidental dated July 18, 2007 (date
      of earliest event reported), File No. 1-9210). 

10.50 *  

Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan Occidental Oil And Gas
      Corporation Return On Assets Incentive Award Agreement (Cash-Based,
      Cash-Settled Award) (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Quarterly Report on Form
      10-Q of Occidental for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2007, File No.
      1-9210). 

10.51 *  

Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan Occidental Chemical
      Corporation Return On Assets Incentive Award Agreement (Cash-Based,
      Cash-Settled Award) (filed as Exhibit 10.6 to the Quarterly Report on Form
      10-Q of Occidental for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2007, File No.
      1-9210). 

10.52 *  

Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan Return on Equity
      Incentive Award (Cash-based, Cash-settled Award) (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to
      the Current Report On Form 8-K of Occidental dated July 16, 2008 (date of
      earliest event reported), File No. 1-9210). 

10.53 *  

Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan Total Shareholder
      Return Incentive Award Agreement (Equity-based, Equity and Cash-settled
      Award) (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report On Form 8-K of
      Occidental dated July 16, 2008 (date of earliest event reported), File No.
      1-9210). 

10.54 *  

Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan Long-Term Incentive
      Award Agreement (Equity-based, Cash-settled Award) (filed as Exhibit 10.4
      to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Occidental for the fiscal quarter
      ended June 30, 2008, File No. 1-9210). 

10.55 *  

Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan Occidental Oil and Gas
      Corporation Return on Assets Incentive Award Agreement (Cash-based,
      Cash-settled Award) (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Quarterly Report on Form
      10-Q of Occidental for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2008, File No.
      1-9210). 

10.56 *  

Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan Occidental Chemical
      Corporation Return on Assets Incentive Award Agreement (Cash-based,
      Cash-settled Award) (filed as Exhibit 10.6 to the Quarterly Report on Form
      10-Q of Occidental for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2008, File No.
      1-9210). 

10.57 *  

Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan Return on Equity
      Incentive Award Agreement (Cash-based, Cash-settled Award) (filed as
      Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Occidental dated July
      15, 2009 (Date of Earliest Event Reported), File No.
    1-9120). 

10.58 *  

Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan Total Shareholder
      Return Incentive Award Agreement (Equity-based, Equity and Cash-settled
      Award) (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of
      Occidental dated July 15, 2009 (Date of Earliest Event Reported), File No.
      1-9210). 

10.59 *  

Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan Occidental Chemical
      Corporation Return on Assets Incentive Award Agreement (Cash-based,
      Cash-settled Award) (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Quarterly Report on Form
      10-Q of Occidental for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2009, File No.
      1-9210). 

10.60 *  

Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan Occidental Oil and Gas
      Corporation Return on Assets Incentive Award Agreement (Cash-based,
      Cash-settled Award) (filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Quarterly Report on Form
      10-Q of Occidental for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2009, File No.
      1-9210). 

10.61 *  

Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan Long-Term Incentive
      Award Terms and Conditions (Equity-based, Cash-settled Award) (filed as
      Exhibit 10.5 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Occidental for the
      fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2009, File No. 1-9210). 

10.62* 

Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan Long-Term Incentive
      Award Terms and Conditions (Equity-based, Cash-settled Award) (alternate  
      CV) (filed as Exhibit 10.6 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of
      Occidental for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2009, File No.
      1-9210). 

12 

Statement
      regarding computation of total enterprise ratios of earnings to fixed
      charges for each of the five years in the period ended December 31,
      2009. 

21 

List
      of subsidiaries of Occidental at December 31, 2009. 

23.1 

Consent
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 

23.2 

Consent
      of Independent Petroleum Engineers. 

31.1 

Certification
      of CEO Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
      2002. 

31.2 

Certification
      of CFO Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
      2002. 

32.1 

Certifications
      of CEO and CFO Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
      2002. 

99.1 

Ryder
      Scott Company Report on Reserves Procedures and
    Methodologies. 

101.INS  
                   
                      XBRL
      Instance Document. 

101.SCH  
                   
                      XBRL
      Taxonomy Extension Schema Document. 

101.CAL  
                   
                      XBRL
      Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document. 

101.LAB  
                   
                      XBRL
      Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document. 

101.PRE  
                   
                      XBRL
      Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document. 

101.DEF  
                   
                      XBRL
      Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase
Document. 

*
Incorporated herein by reference 

89 

Signatures 

Pursuant
to the  requ irements of
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized. 

OCCIDENTAL
      PETROLEUM CORPORATION 

February
      25, 2010 

By: 

/s/  Ray
      R. Irani   

Ray
      R. Irani 

Chairman
      of the Board of Directors 

and
      Chief Executive Officer 

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated. 

Title  

Date  

/s/  Ray
      R. Irani   

Ray
      R. Irani 

Chairman
      of the Board of Directors 

February
      25, 2010 

and
      Chief  Ex ecutive
      Officer 

/s/  Stephen
      I. Chazen   

Stephen
      I. Chazen 

President
      and Chief Financial Officer 

February
      25, 2010 

/s/  Roy
      Pineci   

Roy
      Pineci 

Vice
      President, Controller and 

February
      25, 2010 

Principal
      Accounting Officer 

/s/  Spencer
      Abraham   

Spencer
      Abraham 

Director 

February
      25, 2010 

/s/  Ronald
      W. Burkle   

Ronald
      W. Burkle 

Director 

February
      25, 2010 

/s/  John
      S. Chalsty   

John
      S. Chalsty 

Director 

February
      25, 2010 

/s/  Edward
      P. Djerejian   

Edward
      P. Djerejian 

Director 

February
      25, 2010 

/s/  John
      E. Feick   

John
      E. Feick 

Director 

February
      25, 2010 

/s/  Carlos
      M. Gutierrez   

Carlos
      M. Gutierrez 

Director 

February
      25, 2010 

90 

91 

This
report was printed on recycled paper. 

              2010
Occidental Petroleum Corporation 

92 

EXHIBITS 

10.16 

Amendment
      Number 1 to the Occidental Petroleum Corporation Supplemental Retirement
      Plan II (Effective as of January 1, 2005, Amended and Restated as of
      November 1, 2008). 

10.17  
                     
                        Amendment
      Number 2 to the Occidental Petroleum Corporation Supplemental Retirement
      Plan II (Effective as of January 1, 2005, Amended and Restated as of
      November 1, 2008). 

12 

Statement
      regarding computation of total enterprise ratios of earnings to fixed
      charges for each of the five years in the period ended December 31,
      2009. 

21 

List
      of subsidiaries of Occidental at December 31, 2009. 

23.1 

Consent
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 

23.2 

Consent
      of Independent Petroleum Engineers. 

31.1 

Certification
      of CEO Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
      2002. 

31.2 

Certification
      of CFO Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
      2002. 

32.1 

Certifications
      of CEO and CFO Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
      2002. 

99.1 

Ryder
      Scott Company Report on Reserves Procedures and
    Methodologies. 

101.INS  
                     
                        XBRL
      Instance Document. 

101.SCH  
                     
                        XBRL
      Taxonomy Extension Schema Document. 

101.CAL  
                     
                        XBRL
      Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document. 

101.LAB  
                     
                        XBRL
      Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document. 

101.PRE  
                     
                        XBRL
      Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document. 

101.DEF  
                     
                        XBRL
      Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase
Document. 

<EX-10.16>
 2
 ex10_16-2009.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.16

ex10_16-2009.htm 

EXHIBIT
10.16 

AMENDMENT
NUMBER 1 

      TO
THE 

      OCCIDENTAL
PETROLEUM CORPORATION 

      SUPPLEMENTAL
RETIREMENT PLAN II 

      Effective
as of January 1, 2005 

      Amended
and Restated as of November 1, 2008 

The
Occidental Petroleum Corporation Supplemental Retirement Plan II (Effective as
of January 1, 2005 Amended and Restated as of November 1, 2008) ( Plan ) is
hereby amended effective as of March 1, 2009 (unless a different effective
date is specified) as follows: 

1. 

Section
      2.1(e)(1), relating to the definition of  Base Pay of Record,  is amended
      in its entirety to read as follows: 

(1) 

Base
      Pay of Record does not include: 

(A) 

Bonuses,
      incentives, overtime, shift differential, and overseas
      differentials; 

(B) 

Reimbursement
      for expenses or allowances, including automobile allowances and moving
      allowances; 

(C) 

Any
      amount contributed by the Employer (other than pretax deferrals under the
      Savings Plan and any amounts contributed pursuant to the Occidental
      Petroleum Flexible Spending Accounts Plan, as amended from time to time)
      to any qualified plan or plan of deferred compensation; 

(D) 

Any
      amount paid by an Employer for other fringe benefits, such as health and
      hospitalization, and group life insurance benefits, or perquisites;
      and 

(E) 

Allowances
      paid during furlough and, for purposes of subsection (2)(F), such
      furloughs shall not be treated as paid leaves of
  absence. 

2. 

Except
      as amended above, the Plan as in effect prior to this amendment shall
      continue unchanged. 

* * * * *
* * 

In
Witness Whereof,  the Company has caused this amendment to be adopted on
its behalf by the unanimous action of the Pension and Retirement Plan
Administrative Committee this ____ day of _______________,
2009.   

Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation 

Pension
      and Retirement Plan 

Administrative
      Committee 

Martin
      A. Cozyn 

James
      M. Lienert 

Laura
      B. Reider 

Daniel
      S. Watts 

</EX-10.16>

<EX-10.17>
 3
 ex10_17-2009.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.17

ex10_17-2009.htm 

EXHIBIT
10.17 

AMENDMENT
NUMBER 2 

      TO
THE 

      OCCIDENTAL
PETROLEUM CORPORATION 

      SUPPLEMENTAL
RETIREMENT PLAN II 

      Effective
as of January 1, 2005 

      Amended
and Restated as of November 1, 2008 

The
Occidental Petroleum Corporation Supplemental Retirement Plan II (Effective as
of January 1, 2005  Amended and Restated as of November 1, 2008)
( Plan ) is hereby amended effective as of January 1, 2010 as
follows: 

1. 

Section
      2.1(d), relating to the definition of  Annual Bonus Paid,  is amended in
      its entirety to read as follows: 

(d) 

Annual
      Bonus Paid   means up to the first $100,000 of bonus paid to a
      Participant, who is not a  named executive officer , as that term is
      defined in Regulations S-K under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (17
      CFR  229.402(a)(3)), during the Plan Year under a regular annual incentive
      compensation plan, such as the Company's Variable Compensation Program or
      Incentive Compensation Program (but excluding without limitation a special
      individual or group bonus, a project bonus, and any other special
      bonus).  For avoidance of doubt,  Annual Bonus Paid  means no
      more than $100,000 of bonus paid to a Participant, who is not a  named
      executive officer , as that term is defined in Regulations S-K under the
      Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (17 CFR  229.402(a)(3)), during the Plan
      Year under any one or more regular annual incentive compensation
      plan.  

2. 

Section
      4.3(a)(1), relating to the  Eligibility  for  Allocations Relating to the
      Deferred Compensation  and the  Retirement Plan   is amended in
      its entirety to read as follows: 

(1) 

Eligibility. 
      An Employee who is a participant in the Retirement Plan and eligible to
      participate in the Deferred Compensation Plan for the Plan Year shall be
      provided the allocation for the Plan Year specified in paragraph
      (2).  However, notwithstanding anything to the contrary, an
      Employee of New Eastport Services, LLC and its affiliates is not eligible
      to receive an allocation for the Plan Year specified in paragraph
      (2).  

3. 

Section
      4.3(b)(1), relating to the  Eligibility  for  Allocations Relating to the
      Deferred Compensation  and the  Savings Plan   is amended in its
      entirety to read as follows: 

(1) 

A
      Participant who is eligible to participate in the Savings Plan and makes a
      deferral election under the Deferred Compensation Plan for the Plan Year
      shall be provided the allocation for the Plan Year specified in paragraph
      (2).  However, notwithstanding anyting to the contrary, an
      Employee of New Eastport Services, LLC and its affiliates is not eligible
      to receive an allocation for the Plan Year specified in paragraph
      (2). 

4. 

Except
      as amended above, the Plan as in effect prior to this amendment shall
      continue unchanged. 

* * * * *
* * 

In
Witness Whereof,  the Company has caused this amendment to be adopted on
its behalf by the unanimous action of the Pension and Retirement Plan
Administrative Committee this ____ day of _______________,
2009.  

Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation 

Pension
      and Retirement Plan 

Administrative
      Committee 

Martin
      A. Cozyn 

James
      M. Lienert 

Roy
      Pineci 

Laura
      B. Reider 

Daniel
      S. Watts 

</EX-10.17>

<EX-12>
 4
 ex12-2009.htm
 EXHIBIT 12

ex12-2009.htm 

EXHIBIT
12  

OCCIDENTAL
PETROLEUM CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

COMPUTATION
OF TOTAL ENTERPRISE RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 

      (Amounts
in millions, except ratios) 

(a) 

Represent
      adjustments to arrive at distributed income of equity
      investees. 

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 5
 ex21-2009.htm
 EXHIBIT  21

ex21-2009.htm 

EXHIBIT
21 

LIST
OF SUBSIDIARIES 

The
following is a list of the Registrant s subsidiaries at December 31, 2009, other
than certain inactive subsidiaries that did not in the aggregate constitute a
significant subsidiary. 

Name 

Jurisdiction
      of Formation 

Armand
      Products Company 

Delaware 

Bravo
      Pipeline Company 

Delaware 

Carbocloro
      S.A. Industrias Quimicas 

Brazil 

Centurion
      Pipeline GP, Inc. 

Delaware 

Centurion
      Pipeline L.P. 

Delaware 

Centurion
      Pipeline LP, Inc. 

Delaware 

D.S.
      Ventures, Inc. 

Texas 

DMM
      Financial LLC 

Delaware 

EHPP
      Holdings Inc. 

Delaware 

Elk
      Hills Power, LLC 

Delaware 

Glenn
      Springs Holdings, Inc. 

Delaware 

INDSPEC
      Chemical Corporation 

Delaware 

INDSPEC
      Holding Corporation 

Delaware 

Ingleside
      Cogeneration GP 2, Inc. 

Delaware 

Ingleside
      Cogeneration GP, Inc. 

Delaware 

Ingleside
      Cogeneration Limited Partnership 

Delaware 

Joslyn
      Partnership 

Alberta,
      Canada 

Laguna
      Petroleum Corporation 

Texas 

MC2
      Technologies Inc. 

Delaware 

Moncrief
      Minerals Partnership, L.P. 

Texas 

MTD
      Pipeline LLC 

Delaware 

Natural
      Gas Odorizing, Inc. 

Oklahoma 

New
      Eastport LLC 

Delaware 

New
      Eastport Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

NGL
      Ventures LLC 

Delaware 

Occidental
      (Bermuda) Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Occidental
      (East Shabwa), LLC 

Nevis 

Occidental
      Andina, LLC 

Delaware 

Occidental
      Argentina Exploration and Production, Inc. 

Cayman
      Islands 

Occidental
      Canada Holdings Ltd. 

Nova
      Scotia 

Occidental
      Chemical Chile Limitada 

Chile 

Occidental
      Chemical Corporation 

New
      York 

Occidental
      Chemical Holding Corporation 

California 

Occidental
      Chemical Nevis, Inc. 

Nevis 

Occidental
      Chile Investments, LLC 

Delaware 

Occidental
      Crude Sales, Inc. (International) 

Delaware 

Occidental
      Crude Sales, Inc. (South America) 

Delaware 

Occidental
      de Colombia, Inc. 

Delaware 

Occidental
      del Ecuador, Inc. 

Nevis 

Occidental
      Dolphin Holdings Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Occidental
      Energy Marketing, Inc. 

Delaware 

Occidental
      Energy Ventures Corp. 

Delaware 

Occidental
      Exploration and Production Company 

California 

Occidental
      International (Libya), Inc. 

Delaware 

Occidental
      International Exploration and Production Company 

California 

Occidental
      International Holdings Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Occidental
      International Oil and Gas Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Occidental
      International Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

Occidental
      Joslyn GP 1 Co. 

Nova
      Scotia 

Occidental
      Joslyn GP 2 Co. 

Nova
      Scotia 

EXHIBIT
21  (cont'd)  

Name 

Jurisdiction
      of Formation 

Occidental
      Karawan Holding Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Occidental
      Karawan, LLC 

Delaware 

Occidental
      Latin America Holdings, Inc. 

Delaware 

Occidental
      Libya Oil   Gas B.V. 

The
      Netherlands 

Occidental
      Mukhaizna, LLC 

Delaware 

Occidental
      of Abu Dhabi Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Occidental
      of Abu Dhabi, LLC 

Delaware 

Occidental
      of Bahrain (Block 1) Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Occidental
      of Bahrain (Block 3) Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Occidental
      of Bahrain (Block 4) Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Occidental
      of Bahrain (JOC Holding) LLC 

Delaware 

Occidental
      of Bahrain (Offshore), LLC 

Delaware 

Occidental
      of Bahrain Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Occidental
      of Elk Hills, Inc. 

Delaware 

Occidental
      of Iraq Holdings Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Occidental
      of Iraq, LLC 

Delaware 

Occidental
      of Oman, Inc. 

Nevis 

Occidental
      of Yemen (Block 75), LLC 

Delaware 

Occidental
      of Yemen (Block S-1), Inc. 

Cayman
      Islands 

Occidental
      of Yemen Holdings (Block 75) Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Occidental
      Oil and Gas Corporation 

Texas 

Occidental
      Oil and Gas Holding Corporation 

California 

Occidental
      Oman Gas Company LLC 

Delaware 

Occidental
      Oman Gas Holdings Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Occidental
      OOOI Holder, Inc. 

Delaware 

Occidental
      Overseas Holdings BV 

The
      Netherlands 

Occidental
      Overseas Operations, Inc. 

Delaware 

Occidental
      Peninsula II, Inc. 

Nevis 

Occidental
      Peninsula, LLC 

Delaware 

Occidental
      Permian Ltd. 

Texas 

Occidental
      Permian Manager LLC 

Delaware 

Occidental
      Petroleum Investment Co. 

California 

Occidental
      Petroleum of Qatar Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Occidental
      Power Marketing, L.P. 

Delaware 

Occidental
      Power Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

Occidental
      PVC, LLC 

Delaware 

Occidental
      Qatar Energy Company LLC 

Delaware 

Occidental
      Quimica do Brasil Ltda. 

Brazil 

Occidental
      Resources Company 

Cayman
      Islands 

Occidental
      Tower Corporation 

Delaware 

Occidental
      Transportation Holding Corporation 

Delaware 

Occidental
      Yemen Ltd. 

Bermuda 

OOG
      Partner Inc. 

Delaware 

OOOI
      Chem Sub, LLC 

Delaware 

OOOI
      Chemical International, LLC 

Delaware 

OOOI
      Chemical Management, Inc. 

Delaware 

OOOI
      Chile Holder, Inc. 

Nevis 

OOOI
      Oil and Gas Management, Inc. 

Delaware 

OOOI
      Oil and Gas Sub, LLC 

Delaware 

Oxy
      Cogeneration Holding Company, Inc. 

Delaware 

OXY
      CV Pipeline LLC 

Delaware 

Oxy
      Dolphin E P, LLC 

Nevis 

Oxy
      Dolphin Pipeline, LLC 

Nevis 

Oxy
      Energy Canada, Inc. 

Delaware 

Oxy
      Energy Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

Oxy
      Holding Company (Pipeline), Inc. 

Delaware 

EXHIBIT
21  (cont'd)  

Name 

Jurisdiction
      of Formation 

OXY
      Libya E P Concession 103 Ltd. 

Bermuda 

OXY
      Libya E P EPSA 102 B.V. 

The
      Netherlands 

OXY
      Libya E P EPSA 1981 Ltd. 

Bermuda 

OXY
      Libya E P EPSA 1985 Ltd. 

Bermuda 

OXY
      Libya E P NC 143, 144, 145, 150 B.V. 

The
      Netherlands 

OXY
      Libya, LLC 

Delaware 

OXY
      Long Beach, Inc. 

Delaware 

OXY
      LPG LLC 

Delaware 

OXY
      NM LP 

Texas 

OXY
      Oil Partners, Inc. 

Delaware 

Oxy
      Oleoducto SOP, LLC 

Delaware 

Oxy
      Overseas Services Ltd. 

Bermuda 

OXY
      PBLP Holder, Inc. 

Delaware 

OXY
      PBLP Manager, LLC 

Delaware 

Oxy
      Pipeline I Company 

Delaware 

Oxy
      Pipeline II Company 

Delaware 

OXY
      Qatar GTL, LLC 

Nevis 

OXY
      Tidelands, Inc. 

Delaware 

Oxy
      Transport I Company 

Delaware 

OXY
      USA Inc. 

Delaware 

OXY
      USA WTP LP 

Delaware 

Oxy
      Vinyls Canada Co. 

Nova
      Scotia 

Oxy
      Vinyls, LP 

Delaware 

OXY
      VPP Investments, Inc. 

Delaware 

Oxy
      Westwood Corporation 

California 

OXY
      Wilmington, LLC 

Delaware 

OXYMAR 

Texas 

Permian
      Basin Limited Partnership 

Delaware 

Permian
      VPP Holder, LP 

Delaware 

Permian
      VPP Manager, LLC 

Delaware 

Phibro
      (Asia) Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Phibro
      Clearing LLC 

Delaware 

Phibro
      GmbH 

Switzerland 

Phibro
      LLC 

Delaware 

Phibro
      Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Placid
      Oil Company 

Delaware 

Repsol
      Occidental Corporation 

Delaware 

Scanports
      Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Scanports
      Shipping, Inc. 

Delaware 

Shipalks
      Shipping Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Stockdale
      Oil   Gas, Inc. 

California 

Thums
      Long Beach Company 

Delaware 

Turavent
      Oil AG 

Switzerland 

Vintage
      Petroleum Boliviana, Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Vintage
      Petroleum International Finance B.V. 

Netherlands 

Vintage
      Petroleum International Holdings, Inc. 

Delaware 

Vintage
      Petroleum International Ventures, Inc. 

Cayman
      Islands 

Vintage
      Petroleum International, Inc. 

Oklahoma 

Vintage
      Petroleum South America Holdings, Inc. 

Cayman
      Islands 

Vintage
      Petroleum South America, LLC 

Oklahoma 

Vintage
      Petroleum, LLC 

Delaware 

Vintage
      Production California LLC 

Delaware 

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 6
 ex23_1-2009.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.1

ex23_1-2009.htm 

EXHIBIT
23.1 

CONSENT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the
Board of Directors 

      Occidental
Petroleum Corporation: 

We
consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (Nos.
33-64719, 333-55404, 333-63444, 333-72719, 333-78031, 333-83124, 333-96951,
333-104827, 333-124732, 333-142705   and
333-152875) on Forms S-3 and S-8 of Occidental Petroleum Corporation of our
reports dated February 25, 2010, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets
of Occidental Petroleum Corporation as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the
related consolidated statements of income, stockholders  equity, comprehensive
income, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2009 and the related financial statement schedule, and the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2009, which reports appear in the December 31, 2009 annual report on Form 10-K
of Occidental Petroleum Corporation. 

/s/ KPMG
LLP 

      Los
Angeles, California 

      February
25, 2010 

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 7
 ex23_2-2009.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.2

ex23_2-2009.htm 

EXHIBIT
23.2 

CONSENT
OF INDEPENDENT PETROLEUM ENGINEERS 

To the
Board of Directors 

      Occidental
Petroleum Corporation: 

We
consent to the (i) inclusion in the Occidental Petroleum Corporation
(Occidental) Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and the
incorporation by reference in Occidental s registration statements (Nos.
33-64719, 333-55404, 333-63444, 333-72719, 333-78031, 333-83124, 333-96951,
333-104827, 333-124732, 333-142705 and 333-152875) (the  Registration
Statements ), of references to our name and to our letter dated January 29,
2010, relating to our review of the methods and procedures used by Occidental
for estimating its oil and gas proved reserves (our  Letter ), (ii) filing of
our Letter with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 99.1 to
the Form 10-K and (iii) incorporation by reference of our Letter in the
Registration Statements. 

/s/  RYDER SCOTT COMPANY,
L.P.  

        RYDER SCOTT COMPANY, L.P. 

        TBPE Firm Registration No.
F-1580 

Houston,
Texas 

      February
25, 2010 

</EX-23.2>

<EX-31.1>
 8
 ex31_1-2009.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

ex31_1-2009.htm 

EXHIBIT
31.1 

      RULE
13a   14(a) / 15d   14 (a) 

      CERTIFICATION 

      PURSUANT
TO  302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

I, Ray R.
Irani, certify that: 

1.           I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Occidental Petroleum
Corporation; 

2.           Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.           Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

4.           The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
have: 

(a)           Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b)           Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

(c)           Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

(d)           Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.           The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

(a)           All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

(b)           Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date:  February
25, 2010 

/s/
      RAY R. IRANI 

Ray
      R. Irani 

Chairman
      of the Board of Directors and 

Chief
      Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 9
 ex31_2-2009.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

ex31_2-2009.htm 

EXHIBIT
31.2 

      RULE
13a   14(a) / 15d   14 (a) 

      CERTIFICATION 

      PURSUANT
TO  302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

I,
Stephen I. Chazen, certify that: 

1.           I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Occidental Petroleum
Corporation; 

2.           Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.           Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

4.           The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
have: 

(a)           Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b)           Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

(c)           Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

(d)           Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.           The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

(a)           All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

(b)           Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date:  February
25, 2010 

/s/
      STEPHEN I. CHAZEN 

Stephen
      I. Chazen 

President
      and Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 10
 ex32_1-2009.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

ex32_1-2009.htm 

EXHIBIT
32.1 

      CERTIFICATION
OF CEO AND CFO PURSUANT TO 

       18 U.S.C.     1350,  

      AS
ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 

         906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF
2002  

In
connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Occidental Petroleum
Corporation (the  Company ) for the fiscal period ended December 31, 2009, as
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 25, 2010 (the
 Report ), Ray R. Irani, as Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and Stephen
I. Chazen, as Chief Financial Officer of the Company, each hereby certifies,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002, that, to the best of his knowledge: 

(1) 

The
      Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
      the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2) 

The
      information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
      respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
      Company. 

/s/
      RAY R. IRANI 

Name: 

Ray
      R. Irani 

Title: 

Chairman
      of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer 

Date: 

February
      25, 2010 

/s/
      STEPHEN I. CHAZEN 

Name: 

Stephen
      I. Chazen 

Title: 

President
      and Chief Financial Officer 

Date: 

February
      25, 2010 

A signed
original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to
Occidental Petroleum Corporation and will be retained by Occidental Petroleum
Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff
upon request. 

This
certification accompanies the Report pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not, except to the extent required by the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, be deemed filed by the Company for purposes of
Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended. 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-99.1>
 11
 ex99_1-2009.htm
 EXHIBIT 99.1

ex99_1-2009.htm 

EXHIBIT 99.1  

[Ryder
Scott Company Letterhead] 

January 29, 2010 

The Board
of Directors 

      Occidental
Petroleum Corporation: 

Ryder Scott Company compared
Occidental s methods and procedures for estimating oil and gas reserves to
generally accepted industry standards and reviewed certain pertinent facts
interpreted and assumptions made by the engineering and geological staff of
Occidental Petroleum Corporation for estimating the proved reserves volumes,
preparing the economic evaluations and determining the reserves classifications
in accordance with United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
regulatory standards as of December 31, 2009.  Ryder Scott reviewed
the specific application of such methods and procedures for selected oil and gas
properties considered to be a valid representation of Occidental s total
reserves portfolio.  The specific properties reviewed represent
approximately 20 percent of Occidental s proved oil and gas reserves as of
December 31, 2009.  Since being engaged in 2003, Ryder Scott reviewed
the specific application of Occidental s reserve estimation methods and
procedures for approximately 71   percent of Occidental s
proved oil and gas reserves. 

Based on our reviews, including the
data, technical processes and interpretations presented by Occidental, it is our
opinion that the overall procedures and methodologies utilized in determining
the proved reserves for the reviewed properties as estimated by Occidental are
reasonable and consistent with generally accepted industry standards and comply
with current SEC standards.  Ryder Scott has not been engaged to
render an opinion as to the reasonableness of reserves quantities reported by
Occidental. 

Very
      truly yours, 

RYDER
      SCOTT COMPANY, L.P. 

TBPE
      Firm Registration No. F-1580 

/s/
      John E. Hodgin 

John
      E. Hodgin, P.G., P.E. 

TBPE
      License No. 97667 

President 

</EX-99.1>

<EX-101.INS>
 12
 oxy-20091231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 13
 oxy-20091231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 14
 oxy-20091231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.LAB>
 15
 oxy-20091231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 16
 oxy-20091231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

<EX-101.DEF>
 17
 oxy-20091231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

