<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080229_10-K_edgar_data_78003_0000930413-08-001360_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>3102207</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>514704</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>44906</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1524867</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>94</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000930413-08-001360.hdr.sgml : 20080229
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080229150557
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000930413-08-001360
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		17
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20071231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080229
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080229

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PFIZER INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000078003
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				135315170
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-03619
		FILM NUMBER:		08655003

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		235 E 42ND ST
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10017
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2125732323

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		235 E 42ND ST
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10017

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	PFIZER CHARLES & CO INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19710908

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 NxbE+27S+GeCzzVngX1tkcJXu4TDKJZ0gTVkY9M9iSaVQAShyS/UTfSR4KjXS6D9
 1TgXja3HDiVX1RVY+ZfEpA==

 0000930413-08-001360.txt : 20080229

10-K
 1
 c52104_10-k.htm

-- Converted by SEC Publisher, created by BCL Technologies Inc., for SEC Filing 

UNITED STATES   
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   
  Washington, D.C. 20549   
______________________ 
  FORM 10 - K  

For the transition period from           to           
Commission file number 1-3619   
  PFIZER INC.   
 (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  

Title
    of each class   
       Name
    of each exchange 
    on which registered   

Common
    Stock,  .05 par value   
      New
    York Stock Exchange  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  
                None                   
 
           Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.   Yes No   Indicate by check mark if the
registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  
 
 Yes   x         No       
 
           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  

Yes            No     x  
 
           Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge,
in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  
 
           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See definition of  accelerated
filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer   x  
      Accelerated filer      
      Non-accelerated filer      
      Smaller reporting company      

Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  
 
 Yes             No   x   

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price as of the last business day of the registrant s most
recently completed second fiscal quarter, July 1, 2007, was approximately  125 billion. The registrant has no non-voting common stock.  
           The number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant s
classes of common stock as of February 15, 2008 was 6,760,988,882 shares of common
stock, all of one class.  

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED
    BY REFERENCE   

Portions of the 2007 Annual
    Report to Shareholders   
      Parts I, II and IV  

Portions of the Proxy Statement
    for the 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders   
      Parts I and III  

TABLE OF CONTENTS   

Page   

PART I  	 
	 
 1 	 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS  	 
	 
 1 	 

General 	 
	 
 1 	 

Pfizer Website 	 
	 
 1 	 

Business Segments 	 
	 
 2 	 

Pharmaceutical 	 
	 
 2 	 

Animal Health 	 
	 
 4 	 

Research and Product Development 	 
	 
 5 	 

International Operations 	 
	 
 5 	 

Marketing 	 
	 
 6 	 

Patents and Intellectual Property Rights 	 
	 
 7 	 

Competition 	 
	 
 8 	 

Raw Materials 	 
	 
 10 	 

Government Regulation and Price Constraints 	 
	 
 10 	 

Environmental Law Compliance 	 
	 
 13 	 

Tax Matters 	 
	 
 13 	 

Employees 	 
	 
 13 	 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS AND CAUTIONARY FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT  	 

FUTURE RESULTS  	 
	 
 13 	 

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  	 
	 
 17 	 

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES  	 
	 
 17 	 

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  	 
	 
 18 	 

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS  	 
	 
 18 	 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY  	 
	 
 19 	 

PART II  	 
	 
 21 	 

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE COMPANY S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED  	 

STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  	 
	 
 21 	 

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  	 
	 
 22 	 

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL  	 

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  	 
	 
 22 	 

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT  	 

MARKET RISK  	 
	 
 22 	 

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  	 
	 
 22 	 

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON  	 

ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  	 
	 
 22 	 

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  	 
	 
 22 	 

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION  	 
	 
 23 	 

PART III  	 
	 
 23 	 

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  	 
	 
 23 	 

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  	 
	 
 23 	 

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND  	 

MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  	 
	 
 23 	 

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND  	 

DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE  	 
	 
 23 	 

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES  	 
	 
 23 	 

PART IV  	 
	 
 24 	 

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  	 
	 
 24 	 

15(a)(1) Financial Statements 	 
	 
 24 	 

15(a)(2) Financial Statement Schedules 	 
	 
 24 	 

15(a)(3) Exhibits 	 
	 
 24 	 

PART I   
 
  ITEM 1. BUSINESS   
 
  General   
 
      Pfizer Inc. (which may be referred to as    Pfizer, the Company, we, us or our   ) is a research-based, global pharmaceutical
company. We discover, develop, manufacture and market leading prescription medicines for humans and animals.  
 
      The Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on June 2, 1942.  
 
      We acquired Pharmacia Corporation (Pharmacia) in April 2003. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase. In accordance with GAAP, we did not restate our results of operations and financial
position to reflect the historical results of operations and financial position of Pharmacia.  
 
      We acquired Esperion Therapeutics, Inc. (Esperion) in February 2004. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase. Esperion is a biopharmaceutical company focused on the development of high
density lipoprotein (HDL)-targeted ( good cholesterol ) therapies for the treatment of cardiovascular disease.  
 
      In September 2005, we acquired Vicuron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company focused on the development of novel anti-infectives. The acquisition was also accounted for as a
purchase.  
 
      In February 2006, we acquired from sanofi-aventis the worldwide rights to    Exubera    (inhaled insulation therapy) and the
insulin product business and facilities located in Frankfurt, Germany, which were previously jointly owned by the Company and sanofi-aventis. In the third quarter of 2007, the Company decided to exit    Exubera
   and recorded charges totaling  2.8 billion ( 2.1 billion, net of tax).  
 
      We completed the sale of our Consumer Healthcare business to Johnson   Johnson for  16.6 billion in December 2006. Revenues from our Consumer Healthcare business were  4.0 billion
for full-year 2006.  
 
      In January 2008, we completed the acquisition of Coley Pharmaceutical Group, Inc., a company  

whose area of expertise is immunotherapy with specific emphasis on Toll-like receptor research and development. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase.  
 
      In January 2008, we completed the acquisition of CovX Research LLC, a privately-held biotherapeutics company focused on preclinical oncology and metabolic research and a developer of a
technology platform. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase.  
 
  Pfizer Website   
 
      Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available on our website (www.pfizer.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  
 
      Throughout this 2007 Form 10-K, we  incorporate by reference  certain information from parts of other documents filed with the SEC, including our Annual Report to Shareholders for
2007 and our Proxy Statement for the 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (2008 Proxy Statement). The SEC allows us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our Annual Report to
Shareholders consists of: the 2007 Annual Review (2007 Annual Review); and the 2007 Financial Report (2007 Financial Report), which is contained in Appendix A to our 2008 Proxy Statement. Portions of our 2007 Financial Report are filed as Exhibit 13
to this 2007 Form 10-K. On or about March 14, 2008, our 2007 Annual Review, our 2007 Financial Report and our 2008 Proxy Statement will be available on our website (www.pfizer.com).  
 
      Information relating to corporate governance at Pfizer, including our Corporate Governance Principles; Director Qualification Standards; Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
certifications; Pfizer Policies on Business Conduct (for all of our employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for our Directors; as well as
information concerning our Directors; e-mail  

1  

communication with our Directors; Board Committees; Committee charters and the Lead Independent Director Charter; and transactions in Pfizer securities by Directors and officers, is available on our website
(www.pfizer.com). We will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to Margaret M. Foran, Senior Vice President-Corporate Governance, Associate General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, Pfizer Inc., 235 East 42nd
Street, New York, NY 10017-5755. Information relating to shareholder services, including our Shareholder Investment Program, book-entry share ownership and direct deposit of dividends, is also available on our website (www.pfizer.com).  
 
  Business Segments   
 
      We operate in two business segments: Pharmaceutical and Animal Health.  
 
      We also operate several other businesses, including the manufacture of gelatin capsules, contract manufacturing and bulk pharmaceutical chemicals. Due to the size of these small businesses,
they are grouped into the  Corporate/Other  category of our segment information.  
 
      Comparative segment revenues and related financial information for 2007, 2006, and 2005 are presented in the tables captioned  Segment  and
 Revenues by Therapeutic Area  in Note 21 to our consolidated financial statements,  Segment, Geographic and Revenue Information,  in our 2007 Financial Report. The information from those sections of our 2007 Financial Report is incorporated by reference in this 2007 Form 10-K.  
 
      Our businesses are heavily regulated in most of the countries where we operate. In the U.S., the principal authority regulating our operations is the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA
regulates the safety and efficacy of the products we offer and our research quality, manufacturing processes, product promotion, advertising and product labeling. Similar regulations exist in most other countries, and in many countries the
government also regulates our prices. See  Government Regulation and Price Constraints  below.  

Pharmaceutical   
 
      Our Pharmaceutical business is the largest pharmaceutical business in the world. Each year, Pfizer pharmaceuticals help over 150 million people throughout the world live longer, healthier
lives. With medicines across 11 therapeutic areas, we help to treat and prevent many of the most common and most challenging conditions of our time. Our products are in Cardiovascular and Metabolic Diseases; Central Nervous System Disorders;
Arthritis and Pain; Infectious and Respiratory Diseases; Urology; Oncology; Ophthalmology; and Endocrine Disorders. As of October 2007, our portfolio of medicines included seven medicines that led their therapeutic areas based on
revenues.  
 
      In 2007, Pharmaceutical revenues declined 1%, to  44.4 billion primarily resulting from the earlier-than-expected loss of U.S. exclusivity for    Norvasc
   in March 2007 and the loss of U.S. exclusivity for    Zoloft    in August 2006. Solid performance from products launched in the U.S. since 2005
such as Lyrica, Sutent and Chantix and several in-line products, as well as the favorable impact of foreign exchange, were able to partially offset these declines. Revenues from this segment contributed 91.8% of our total revenues in 2007, 93.2% of
our total revenues in 2006, and 93.4% in 2005. In 2007,    Lipitor, Norvasc,    and    Celebrex    each delivered
at least  2 billion in revenues while  Lyrica, Viagra, Detrol/Detrol LA, Xalatan/Xalacom  and  Zyrtec/Zyrtec D  each surpassed  1 billion. A table captioned  Revenues   Major Pharmaceutical Products,  in our 2007 Financial Report, is incorporated by reference.  
 
      Our major pharmaceutical products and certain recently approved products are as follows:  
 
  Cardiovascular and Metabolic Diseases   

Lipitor   , for the treatment of elevated LDL-   cholesterol levels in the blood, is the most   widely used treatment for
lowering cholesterol   and the best-selling pharmaceutical product of   any kind in the world.  
 
  Norvasc   , for treating hypertension, lost   exclusivity in the U.S. in March 2007 and has   also experienced patent
expirations in most   other major markets with the exception of   Japan and Canada.    Norvasc    is covered by a 
 compound patent in Japan that will expire in   March 2008.  

2  

Caduet    is a single pill therapy combining    Lipitor    and    Norvasc
   for prevention of   cardiovascular events.  
 
  Chantix/Champix   , the first new prescription   treatment to aid smoking cessation in nearly a   decade, became available
to patients in the   U.S. in August 2006. It also is currently   available in over 20 European markets as well   as Canada, Australia, Korea, Brazil
and   Mexico.    For further information on     Chantix/Champix, including a recent label     change in the U.S.,
see the discussion under     the heading Pharmaceutical-Selected Product     Description, Chantix/Champix in the     Financial Review section
of our 2007     Financial Report, which is incorporated by     reference.   

Central Nervous System Disorders   

Lyrica    was approved by the FDA in June 2005   for adjuctive therapy for adults with partial   onset epileptic seizures.
This indication built   on an earlier FDA approval of    Lyrica    for the   treatment of two of the most common forms
of   neuropathic pain painful diabetic peripheral   neuropathy and post-herpetic neuralgia. In   June 2007, Lyrica was approved in the U.S. for 
 the management of fibromyalgia, one of the   most common chronic pain conditions. This   approval represents a breakthrough for the   more than six million Americans who suffer   from this debilitating condition who   previously had no FDA-approved treatment.  
 
  Geodon/Zeldox   , a psychotropic agent, is a   dopamine and serotonin receptor antagonist   indicated for the treatment of
schizophrenia   and acute manic or mixed episodes associated   with bipolar disorder. It is available in both an   oral capsule and rapid-acting
intramuscular   formulation.  
 
  Aricept   , discovered and developed by Eisai   Co., Ltd., is the world s leading medicine to   treat symptoms of
Alzheimer s disease. We co-   promote    Aricept    with Eisai in the U.S. and   several other countries and have
an exclusive   license to sell this medicine in certain other   countries.  
 
  Zoloft   , lost exclusivity in the U.S. in August   2006 and earlier in many European markets. It  

is indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder, panic disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) in adults and children, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) and
social anxiety disorder (SAD).    Zoloft    is approved for acute and long-term use in all of these indications, with the exception of PMDD.    Zoloft    was launched in Japan in July 2006 for the indications of depression/depressed state and panic disorder.  
 
  Arthritis and Pain   

Celebrex    is for the treatment of arthritis pain   and inflammation and acute pain. It also was   approved by the FDA in
July 2005 and in   Europe in February 2007 for the treatment of   ankylosing spondylitis, a form of spinal   arthritis, and in December 2006, for the 
 treatment of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis.  

Infectious and Respiratory Diseases   

Vfend    is a treatment that can be administered   orally or intravenously for certain serious and   potentially fatal
fungal infections, for the   treatment of esophageal candidiasis and for   the treatment of certain blood stream   infections in non-neutropenic patients
(those   without low white blood cell counts). It is also   available in an oral-suspension formulation   suitable for patients unable to swallow the 
 tablet form.  
 
  Zyvox    is for the treatment of bacterial   infections, which increasingly are caused by   drug-resistant bacteria, and the
treatment of   diabetic foot infections.    Zyvox    is available in   intravenous, tablet and oral-suspension 
 formulations.  
 
  Selzentry/Celsentri  is the first in a new class of oral HIV medicines in more than a decade known as CCR5
antagonists. CCR5 antagonists work by blocking the CCR5 co-receptor, the virus  predominant entry route into T-cells.  Selzentry/Celsentri  stops the R5 virus on the outside surface of the cells before it enters, rather than fighting the virus
inside, as do all other classes of oral HIV medicines.  Selzentry/Celsentri  was approved in the U.S. in August 2007 and in Europe in September 2007, and is indicated for
combination anti-   

3  

retroviral treatment of treatment-experienced adults infected with only CCR5-tropic HIV-1 detectable, who have evidence of viral replication and have HIV-1 strains resistant to multiple anti-retroviral agents.  

Urology   

Viagra    remains the leading treatment for   erectile dysfunction (ED), and one of the   world s most recognized
pharmaceutical   brands.  
 
  Detrol    is the world s leading product for the   treatment of overactive bladder.    Detrol LA    is   an extended-release formulation of this   medicine, taken once a day.  

Oncology   

Camptosar   , which is marketed under the name    Campto    in many countries outside the U.S., is   indicated as first-line therapy for metastatic   colorectal cancer in combination with   5-fluorouracil and leucovorin. The U.S. basic   patent
for    Camptosar    expired in February   2008.  
 
  Sutent  is an oral multi-kinase inhibitor that combines anti-angiogenic and anti-tumor activity to inhibit the blood
supply to tumors.  Sutent  was approved by the FDA and launched in the U.S. in January 2006 for advanced renal cell carcinoma, including
metastatic renal cell carcinoma, and gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) after disease progression on or intolerance to imatinib mesylate. In
January 2007,  Sutent  received full marketing authorization and extension of the indication to first-line treatment of advanced and/or metastatic renal cell carcinoma, as well as approval as a second-line treatment of GIST in the
EU.  

Ophthalmology   

Xalatan/Xalacom    is one of the world s leading   branded glaucoma medicines. It is used to   treat open-angle
glaucoma and ocular   hypertension.    Xalacom   , the only fixed   combination prostaglandin (   Xalatan   ) in   combination with a beta blocker, is available   primarily in European markets.  

Endocrine Disorders   

Genotropin    is the world s leading human   recombinant growth hormone. It is used for   the treatment of various
growth disorders in   children and adults. Novo Nordisk has granted   us a non-exclusive license to sell    Genotropin    in the U.S.  

Other   

Zyrtec/Zyrtec D    is for the treatment of year-   round indoor and seasonal outdoor allergies   and hives in adults and
children. We lost U.S.   exclusivity for    Zyrtec    in January 2008. Since   we sold our rights to market
   Zyrtec    over-the-   counter in connection with the sale of our   Consumer Healthcare business, we ceased 
 selling this product in late January 2008.  

Animal Health   
 
      Our Animal Health business is one of the largest in the world. We discover, develop and sell products for the prevention and treatment of diseases in livestock and companion animals. In 2007,
Animal Health revenues increased 14%, to  2.6 billion, primarily due to the continued performance of    Revolution/Stronghold, Rimadyl   , and other products, and the launches of
important new products such as    Convenia    (single dose antibiotic for dogs and cats),    Slentrol    (anti-obesity treatment for dogs),    Cerenia    (prevention and treatment of emesis for dogs), and    Improvac    (boar taint vaccine for pigs).  
 
      Among the products we market are parasiticides, anti-inflammatories, antibiotics, vaccines, antiemetics, and anti-obesity agents, including the products discussed below.  
 
      Parasiticides constitute the largest segment of the animal health market for companion animals, consisting mainly of medicines for the control of parasites such as fleas and heartworm. Our
product,    Revolution/Stronghold,    is our largest-selling parasiticide for dogs and cats.  
 
       Rimadyl    relieves pain and inflammation associated with canine osteoarthritis and soft tissue orthopedic surgery.    Rimadyl    is the only arthritis pain medication prescribed by veterinarians available in chewable tablets, regular caplets and in an injectable formulation.  

4  

Clavamox/Synulox    is an antibiotic for skin and soft tissue infections in dogs and cats.  
 
      Our vaccine portfolio for livestock is extensive and includes    RespiSureOne/StellamuneOne,    a single-dose vaccine used to
prevent pneumonia in swine, and    Bovi-Shield Gold,    a cattle vaccine for reproductive and respiratory protection.  
 
       Dectomax    injectable and pour-on formulations remove and control internal and external parasites in beef cattle.  
 
       Draxxin    is an effective and convenient single dose antibiotic used to treat infections in cattle and swine.  
 
       Excede    is an effective and convenient single-dose antibiotic used to treat infections in dairy cows, beef cattle and swine.  
 
  Research and Product Development   
 
      Innovation by our research and development operations is very important to the Company s success. Our goal is to discover, develop and bring to market innovative products that address
major unmet medical needs. This goal has been supported by our substantial research and development investments. We spent  8.1 billion in 2007,  7.6 billion in 2006 and  7.3 billion in 2005 on research and development in support of
Pfizer s Pharmaceutical and Animal Health businesses.  
 
      We conduct research internally and also through contracts with third parties, through collaborations with universities and biotechnology companies and in cooperation with other pharmaceutical
firms. We also seek out promising compounds and innovative technologies developed by third parties to incorporate into our discovery or development processes or projects, as well as our product lines, through acquisition, licensing or other
arrangements.  
 
      Drug discovery and development is time consuming, expensive and unpredictable. On average, only one out of many thousands of chemical compounds discovered by researchers proves to be both
medically effective and safe enough to become an approved medicine. The process from early discovery to development to regulatory approval can take more than ten years. Drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process. Candidates may not receive
regulatory approval even after many years of research.  

We believe that our investments in research have been rewarded by the number of pharmaceutical compounds we have in all stages of development. We currently are working on 213 projects in
development, including 151 new molecular entities and 62 product-line extensions. In addition, we have more than 300 projects in discovery research. In recent years, our discovery scientists have delivered over 100 new chemical compounds to early
development. While these new candidates may or may not eventually receive regulatory approval, new drug candidates entering development are the foundation for future products.  
 
      In addition to discovering and developing new products, our research operations add value to our existing products by improving their effectiveness and by discovering new uses for
them.  
 
      Information concerning several of our drug candidates in development, as well as supplemental filings for existing products, is set forth under the heading    Product Developments    in our 2007 Financial Report. That information is incorporated by reference.  
 
      Pfizer provides a detailed update of its pipeline twice a year, which is available at    www.pfizer.com/pipeline    for
tracking development compounds across Pfizer s robust pipeline.  
 
      Our competitors also devote substantial funds and resources to research and development. In addition, the consolidation that has occurred in our industry has created companies with substantial
research and development resources. We also compete against numerous small biotechnology companies in developing potential drug candidates. The extent to which our competitors are successful in their research could result in erosion of the sales of
our products and unanticipated product obsolescence.  
 
  International Operations   
 
      We have significant operations outside the United States. They are managed through the same business segments as our U.S. operations  Pharmaceutical and Animal Health.  
 
      Revenues from operations outside the U.S. of  25.3 billion accounted for 52.2% of our total revenues in 2007. Revenues exceeded  500 million in each of 12 countries outside the U.S.
in  

5  

2007. The U.S. was the only country to contribute more than 10% of our total revenues, comprising 47.8% of total revenues in 2007, 53.4% of total revenues in 2006 and 52.2% of total revenues in 2005. Japan is our
second-largest national market, with 7.0% of our total revenues in 2007, 6.7% in 2006 and 7.3% in 2005.  
 
      For a geographic breakdown of revenues and changes in revenues, see the table captioned    Geographic    in Note 21 to our
consolidated financial statements,    Segment, Geographic and Revenue Information,    in our 2007 Financial Report and the table captioned    Change
in Revenues by Segment and Geographic Area    in our 2007 Financial Report. Those tables are incorporated by reference.  
 
      Our international businesses are subject, in varying degrees, to a number of risks inherent in carrying on business in other countries. These include currency fluctuations, capital and exchange
control regulations, expropriation and other restrictive government actions. Our international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws on pricing, reimbursement and access to our products.  
 
      See    Government Regulation and Price Constraints    below for discussion of these matters.  
 
      Depending on the direction of change relative to the U.S. dollar, foreign currency values can increase or decrease the reported dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. In
2007, both revenues and net income were favorably impacted by foreign exchange, as foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar increased our revenues and net income in many countries. While we cannot predict with certainty future changes
in foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have on us, we attempt to mitigate their impact through operational means and by using various financial instruments. See the discussion under Note 10-D to our consolidated financial statements,
   Financial Instruments: Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities    in our 2007 Financial Report. That discussion is incorporated by reference. Related information
about valuation and risks associated with such financial instruments in parts E and F of that Note is also incorporated by reference.  

Marketing   
 
      In our global Pharmaceutical business, we promote our products to healthcare providers and patients. Through our marketing organizations, we explain the approved uses, benefits and risks of our
products to healthcare providers, such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, pharmacists, hospitals, Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs), Managed Care Organizations (MCOs), employers and government agencies. We also market directly to
consumers in the U.S., through direct-to-consumer advertising that communicates the approved uses, benefits, and risks of our products while continuing to motivate people to have meaningful conversations with their doctors. In addition, we sponsor
general advertising to educate the public on disease awareness, important public health issues, and our patient assistance programs.  
 
      Our operations include several pharmaceutical sales organizations. Our structure aligns the sales, marketing, and medical functions to work closely in tandem along the same therapeutic groups
of products, reinforcing common coordination, focus, and accountability across the organizations.  
 
      Our prescription pharmaceutical products are sold principally to wholesalers, but we also sell directly to retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and pharmacies. We seek to gain
access to health authority, PBM and MCO formularies (lists of recommended, approved, and/or reimbursed medicines and other products). We also work with MCOs, PBMs, employers and other appropriate healthcare providers to assist them with disease
management, patient education and other tools that help their medical treatment routines.  
 
      Our Animal Health business also uses its own sales organization to promote its products. Its advertising and promotion are generally targeted to health professionals, directly and through
veterinary journals. Animal health products are sold through veterinarians, distributors and retail outlets as well as directly to users. Where appropriate,
these products are also marketed through print and television advertising.  

6  

During 2007, sales to our three largest wholesalers were as follows:  

McKesson, Inc. 18% of our total revenues;  
 
 Cardinal Health, Inc. 12% of our total   revenues; and  
 
 AmerisourceBergen Corporation 10% of our   total revenues. 

Sales to these wholesalers were concentrated in the Pharmaceutical segment. Apart from these instances, neither of our business segments is dependent on any one customer or group of related customers.  
 
  Patents and Intellectual Property Rights   
 
      Our products are sold around the world under brand-name, logo and certain product design trademarks that we consider in the aggregate to be of material importance. Trademark protection
continues in some countries for as long as the mark is used and, in other countries, for as long as it is registered. Registrations generally are for fixed, but renewable, terms.  
 
      We own or license a number of U.S. and foreign patents. These patents cover pharmaceutical and other products and their uses, pharmaceutical formulations, product manufacturing processes and
intermediate chemical compounds used in manufacturing.  
 
      Patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is
obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country.  
 
      In the aggregate, our patent and related rights are of material importance to our businesses in the U.S. and most other countries. Based on current product sales, and considering the vigorous
competition with products sold by others, the patent rights we consider most significant in relation to our business as a whole, together with the year in which the U.S. basic product patent expires (including, where applicable, the additional
six-month pediatric exclusivity period), are those for the drugs set forth in the table below. The table  

also includes patent expiration information relating to certain recently approved drugs.  

In some instances, there are later-expiring patents relating to our products directed to particular forms or compositions of the drug or to methods of manufacturing or using the drug in the
treatment of particular diseases or conditions. However, in some cases, such patents may not protect the Company s drug from generic competition after the expiration of the basic patent.  
 
 The U.S. basic patents expired for 
  Zyrtec/Zyrtec D    and    Norvasc    in 2007 and for 
  Camptosar    in February 2008.  
 
       Aricept    is patented by Eisai Co., Ltd. We co-promote    Aricept    with Eisai in the
U.S. and several other countries and have an exclusive license to sell the drug in certain other countries.  
 
      In addition to our U.S. basic product patent for    Lipitor,    which (including the pediatric exclusivity period) expires in
March 2010, we have a patent covering specifically the enantiomeric form of the drug, which (including the pediatric exclusivity period) expires in June 2011. See Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements,    Legal Proceedings and Contingencies,    in our 2007 Financial Report regarding pending legal challenges to our    Lipitor    patents in
the U.S. and Canada.  
 
      We market    Genotropin    in the U.S. under a non-exclusive license from Novo-Nordisk.  
 
      Companies have filed applications with the FDA seeking approval of products that we believe infringe our patents covering, among other products,    Lipitor,
Celebrex, Detrol/Detrol LA and Caduet   . In addition, a company has filed an application with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of    Aricept,    which is patented by Eisai Co., Ltd.  

7  

We also have other patent rights covering additional products that have lesser revenues than most of the products set forth in the table above.  
 
      The expiration of a basic product patent or loss of patent protection resulting from a legal challenge normally results in significant competition from generic products against the originally
patented product and can result in a significant reduction in sales of that product in a very short period. In some cases, however, we can continue to obtain commercial benefits from product manufacturing trade secrets; patents on uses for products;
patents on processes and intermediates for the economical manufacture of the active ingredients; patents for special formulations of the product or delivery mechanisms; and conversion of the active ingredient to over-the-counter products.  
 
      One of the main limitations on our operations in some countries outside the U.S. is the lack of effective intellectual property protection for our products. Under international agreements in
recent years, global protection of intellectual property rights is improving. The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade requires participant countries to amend their intellectual property laws to provide patent protection for pharmaceutical
products by the end of a ten-year transition period. A number of countries are doing this. We have experienced significant growth in our businesses in some of those nations, and our continued business expansion in those countries depends to a large
degree on further patent protection improvement.  
 
  Competition   
 
      Our businesses are conducted in intensely competitive and often highly regulated markets. Many of our human pharmaceutical products face competition in the form of branded drugs or generic
drugs that treat similar diseases or indications. The principal forms of competition include efficacy, safety, ease of use, and cost effectiveness. Though the means of competition vary among product categories and business groups, demonstrating the
value of our products is a critical factor for success in all of our principal businesses.  
 
      Our Pharmaceutical business is the largest in the world. Our competitors include other worldwide research-based drug companies,  

smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, and generic drug manufacturers. We compete with other companies that manufacture and sell products that treat similar diseases or indications as our major
products.  
 
      Such competition affects our core product business, focused on applying innovative science to discover and market products that satisfy unmet medical needs and provide therapeutic improvements.
Our emphasis on innovation is underscored by our multi-billion-dollar investment in research and development over the past decade, resulting in one of the strongest product pipelines in the industry. Our investment in research does not stop with a
drug approval; we continue to invest in further understanding the value of our products for the conditions they treat as well as potentially new conditions. We protect the health and well being of patients by ensuring that medically sound knowledge
of the benefits and risks of our medicines is understood and communicated to patients, physicians and global health authorities. We also continue to enhance the organizational effectiveness of our pharmaceutical sales and marketing functions,
coordinating support for our salespeople s efforts to launch and promote our products to our customers.  
 
      Operating conditions have become more challenging under the mounting global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment. We recently have taken and continue to take
measures to evaluate, adapt, and improve our organization and business practices to better meet customer and public needs.  
 
      For instance, we have taken an industry-leading role in evolving our approaches to U.S. direct-to-consumer advertising, interactions with healthcare professionals and medical education grants.
We also continue to sponsor programs to address patient affordability and access barriers, as we strive to advance fundamental health system change through support for better healthcare solutions.  
 
      While our Animal Health business is one of the largest in the world, many other companies offer competitive products. Altogether, there are hundreds of producers of animal health products
throughout the world. The principal methods of competition vary somewhat depending on the particular product. They include product  

8  

innovation, quality, price, service and effective promotion to veterinary professionals and consumers.  
 
  Managed Care Organizations   
 
      The growth of MCOs in the U.S. has been a major factor in the competitive makeup of the healthcare marketplace. Approximately 180 million people in the U.S. now participate in some version of
managed care. Because of the size of the patient population covered by MCOs, marketing of prescription drugs to them and the PBMs that serve many of those organizations continues to grow in importance.  
 
      MCOs can include medical insurance companies, medical plan administrators, health-maintenance organizations, alliances of hospitals and physicians and other physician organizations. The
purchasing power of MCOs has been increasing in recent years due to their growing numbers of enrolled patients. At the same time, those organizations have been consolidating into fewer, even larger entities. This enhances their purchasing strength
and importance to us.  
 
      The growth of MCOs has increased pressure on drug prices. One objective of MCOs is to contain and, where possible, reduce healthcare expenditures. They typically use formularies, volume
purchases and long-term contracts to negotiate discounts from pharmaceutical providers. They use their purchasing power to bargain for lower supplier prices. They also emphasize primary and preventive care, out-patient treatment and procedures
performed at doctors  offices and clinics. Hospitalization and surgery, typically the most expensive forms of treatment, are carefully managed. Since the use of certain drugs can prevent the need for hospitalization, professional therapy or
even surgery, such drugs can become favored first-line treatments for certain diseases.  
 
      As discussed above in    Marketing   , MCOs and PBMs typically develop formularies. Formularies can be based on the prices and
therapeutic benefits of the available products. Due to their generally lower cost, generic medicines are often favored. The breadth of the products covered by formularies can vary considerably from one MCO to another and many formularies include
alternative and competitive products for treatment  

of particular medical problems. MCOs use a variety of means to encourage patients  use of products listed on their formularies.  
 
      Exclusion of a product from a formulary or other restrictions, such as requiring prior authorizations, can lead to its sharply reduced usage in the MCO patient population. Consequently,
pharmaceutical companies compete aggressively to have their products included. Where possible, companies compete for inclusion based upon unique features of their products, such as greater efficacy, better patient ease of use or fewer side effects.
A lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. Products that demonstrate fewer therapeutic advantages must compete for inclusion based primarily on price. We have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major
products included on most MCO formularies.  
 
      The impact of MCOs on drug prices and volumes has increased as the result of their role in negotiating on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries in connection with the Medicare out-patient
Prescription Drug Benefit, Medicare Part D that took effect January 1, 2006. MCOs and PBMs negotiate on behalf of the federal government as Prescription Drug Plans (PDPs). We have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our
major products that are used by the senior population included on the formularies of the new Medicare PDPs for 2006, 2007 and 2008.  
 
  Generic Products   
 
      One of the biggest competitive challenges that we face is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product, we can lose the major
portion of sales of that product in a very short period. Several such competitors make a regular practice of challenging our product patents before their expiry. Generic competitors operate without our large research and development expenses and our
costs of conveying medical information about our products to the medical community. In addition, the FDA approval process exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic
manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy data of the innovator product. Generic products need only demonstrate a level of availability in the bloodstream equivalent  

9  

to that of the innovator product. This means that generic competitors can market a competing version of our product after the expiration or loss of our patent and charge much less.  
 
      In addition, our patent-protected products can face competition in the form of generic versions of branded products of competitors that lose their market exclusivity. For example,
   Lipitor    began to face competition from generic pravastatin (Pravachol) and generic simvastatin (Zocor) during 2006.  
 
      As noted above, MCOs that focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics over brand-name drugs. Many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to
brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs, including Medicaid in the U.S. Laws in the U.S. generally allow, and in some cases require, pharmacists to substitute generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be therapeutically
equivalent to brand-name drugs. The substitution must be made unless the prescribing physician expressly forbids it. In the U.S., Pfizer s Greenstone subsidiary sells generic versions of Pfizer s pharmaceutical products upon loss of
exclusivity, as appropriate.  
 
  Raw Materials   
 
      Raw materials essential to our businesses are purchased worldwide in the ordinary course of business from numerous suppliers. In general, these materials are available from multiple sources. No
serious shortages or delays were encountered in 2007, and none are expected in 2008. The rise in the price of crude oil has resulted in pricing pressures on raw materials that are derived from petroleum and used in our businesses.  
 
  Government Regulation and Price Constraints   
 
  In the United States   
 
       General.    Pharmaceutical companies are subject to extensive regulation by national, state and local agencies in the countries in which they do business.
Of particular importance is the FDA in the U.S. It has jurisdiction over our human pharmaceutical business and administers  

requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, advertising and post-marketing surveillance of our pharmaceutical products. The FDA also regulates our animal health products,
along with the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.  
 
      In addition, many of our activities are subject to the jurisdiction of various other federal regulatory and enforcement departments and agencies, such as the Department of Health and Human
Services, the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice. Individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer protection and
false advertising laws.  
 
      We are subject to possible administrative and legal proceedings and actions by these various regulatory bodies (see Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements,    Legal Proceedings and Contingencies,    in our 2007 Financial Report). Such actions may include product recalls, seizures and other civil and criminal sanctions.  
 
      The U.S. Congress and the FDA are considering proposals to change how the FDA assesses  follow-on biological  products. Depending on the specific provisions, legislative or regulatory
changes that would facilitate the approval of such products could have an adverse impact on the Company s business.  
 
       Medicare.    In December 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the 2003 Medicare Act) was enacted. Medicare
beneficiaries are now eligible to obtain subsidized prescription drug coverage from a choice of private sector plans. Over 90 percent of Medicare beneficiaries now have coverage for prescription medicines. It remains difficult to predict the
long-term impact of the 2003 Medicare Act on pharmaceutical companies. The use of pharmaceuticals has increased slightly among some patients as the result of the expanded access to medicines afforded by coverage under Medicare. However, such
expanded utilization has been largely offset by increased pricing pressure and competition due to the enhanced purchasing power of the private sector plans that negotiate on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries and by an increase in the use
of  

10  

generic medicines in this population. In addition, effective January 1, 2007, Medicare ended reimbursement for ED medicines, including  
 
  Viagra   .  
 
      Pfizer is committed to helping ensure that all Americans without coverage for prescription medicines have access to Pfizer products. To that end, in 2004, we implemented our Helpful Answers
program, an umbrella program that brings together Pfizer s long-standing patient assistance programs with Pfizer Pfriends, a prescription discount card offering savings on Pfizer prescription medicines for all Americans without prescription
drug coverage, regardless of age or income. In addition, in January 2005, we joined Together Rx Access with nine other pharmaceutical companies to offer savings on over 275 medicines to Medicare-ineligible, uninsured individuals under 65 who fall
below certain income thresholds. Pfizer also participates in the Partnership for Prescription Assistance, a single point of access to more than 475 public and private patient assistance programs.  
 
       Importation of Drugs.    There continue to be legislative proposals to amend U.S. law to allow the importation into the U.S. of prescription drugs from
outside the U.S., which can be sold at prices that are regulated by the governments of various foreign countries. In addition to well documented safety concerns, such importation could impact pharmaceutical prices in the U.S. While the 2003 Medicare
Act maintains the current prohibition on such imports, it would allow importation from Canada if the Secretary of Health and Human Services certifies that such importation is safe and would result in savings to consumers. Before the 2003 Medicare
Act, federal law would have permitted importation of medicines into the U.S. from a considerably larger group of developed countries, provided the Secretary of Health and Human Services made the same safety and cost-savings certifications. In
December 2004, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Department of Commerce issued reports on drug importation and foreign price controls. The HHS report noted that it would be  extraordinarily difficult to ensure that drugs
personally imported by individual consumers  could meet the standards of safety that would support certifying such importation as safe. While the report also concluded that the U.S. could  

establish a feasible basis for commercial drug importation, such a change in the law would require  new legal authorities, substantial additional resources and significant restrictions on the types of drugs that could
be imported.  The report also noted that the total savings to be expected from such a commercial importation regime would be relatively small   1% or 2% of total drug spending in the U.S. The Commerce Department report confirmed that the
lower prices in many countries result from governmental price controls, and these price controls adversely affect the amount of funding that is available for the discovery of new drugs.  
 
       Medicaid and Related Matters.    Federal law requires us to give rebates to state Medicaid agencies based on each state s reimbursement of
pharmaceutical products under the Medicaid program. In recent years, various proposals have been offered at the federal and state levels that would bring about major changes in the Medicaid program. In the short term, driven by budget concerns, many
states have implemented restrictive drug lists and state supplemental rebate programs under the Medicaid program. These programs increased our required rebate payments in 2007. Nonetheless, Pfizer enjoys relatively broad formulary access in state
Medicaid fee-for-service programs, although restrictions exist for some products in certain states. Access in the Medicaid managed care program is typically determined by the health plans providing coverage for Medicaid recipients contracting for
the provision of services in the state. Access may vary by plan.  
 
      Since January 1, 2006, federal funds have not been used for reimbursement of erectile dysfunction medications, including    Viagra,    in the Medicaid program. In addition, effective January 1, 2007, changes to the treatment of authorized generics for purposes of calculating Medicaid rebates increased the amount of rebates we are required to pay on brand name drug
sales after loss of exclusivity and on authorized generic sales to the Medicaid program. In addition, a number of states are considering expansion of eligibility for their Medicaid programs that would result in increased exposure to Medicaid
rebates.  
 
      Some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not Medicaid eligible, as  

11  

well as various approaches to controlling pharmaceutical marketing activities. If many states were to require increased rebate payments in discount programs for the uninsured and link Medicaid beneficiaries  access to
our products to such discount programs, the impact on patients  access to medicines and on Pfizer could be significant.  
 
      We also must give discounts or rebates on purchases or reimbursements of pharmaceutical products by certain other federal and state agencies and programs. See the discussion regarding rebates
in the    Revenues    section of our 2007 Financial Report and in Note 1-G to our consolidated financial statements,    Significant Accounting
Policies, Revenues,    in our 2007 Financial Report, which discussions are incorporated by reference.  
 
       Health Reform.    Massachusetts is currently implementing its program for health reform. Part of the ongoing implementation discussion is whether minimal
coverage requires access to brand-name medications or only to generic medications. The latter approach has the potential to have a negative impact on the sale of brand-name medications. This impact would be more significant if generics-only programs
were implemented by other states considering their own approaches to health reform.  
 
  Outside the United States   
 
      We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. In Europe and some other international markets, the government provides healthcare at low direct cost to
consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. This international patchwork of price regulation has led to different prices and some third-party trade in
our products from markets with lower prices. Such trade exploiting price differences between countries can undermine our sales in markets with higher prices.  
 
      The approval of new drugs across the EU may only be achieved using the Mutual Recognition Procedure/Decentralized Procedure or EU Commission/European Medicines Agency (EMEA) Central Approval
Process, which applies in the 27 EU member states, plus Norway and  

Iceland, which are full participants in these registration processes. The use of these procedures provides a more rapid and consistent approval across the member states than was the case when the approval processes were
operating independently within each country.  
 
      Since the EU does not have jurisdiction over patient reimbursement or pricing matters in its member states, we continue to deal with individual countries on such matters across the
region.  
 
      During 2004, a comprehensive package of reforms was adopted (called New Medicines Legislation) amending EU law on the regulation of medicinal products in many areas, including approval
procedures and safety reporting. Of particular note, the data exclusivity periods during which innovative companies  regulatory data are protected are required to be harmonized in all member states. Implementation is complete or underway in
most member states, which will facilitate the approval and launch of generic medicines. In addition, these reforms introduced a clear legal basis for the approval of  biosimilar  or  follow-on biological  products in the EU.
Following the effectiveness of these new regulations (in November 2005), the first such products, including a biosimilar version of    Genotropin   , were approved in the EU in 2006.
The new regulations also shortened certain approval timelines and introduced fast-track and conditional centralized authorizations. Pfizer s    Sutent    was the first product
to be conditionally approved under the new law in 2006 (although its status subsequently was converted to full authorization).  
 
      On January 26, 2007, the new EU Regulation on Medicines for Pediatric Use became effective. This introduced new obligations on pharmaceutical companies to conduct research on their medicines in
children and, subject to various conditions, offers the possibility of incentives for so doing, including exclusivity extensions. The aim of this new regulation is to improve the health of children in the EU through high quality research,
stimulating the development of new medicines, creating infrastructure to enable authorized use and improving the information on medicines for children. A Pediatric Committee (PDCO) was created within the EMEA to provide scientific opinions and input
on development plans for medicines for use with children.  

12  

On November 28, 2007,
the EU Commission hosted the Transatlantic Administrative Simplification Workshop
co-chaired by the EU Commission and the FDA, in co-operation with the EMEA and
the Heads  of European Medicines Agencies, to identify opportunities for administrative
simplification between the U.S. and the EU in the field of pharmaceutical regulation.
These opportunities include possible harmonization of administrative practices
and  guidelines, not necessitating changes in regulations, while maintaining
or increasing the current levels of Public Health protection. By freeing up resources,
this cooperation will allow the industry to focus more of its resources on developing
and  supplying medicines to meet the needs of patients.  
 
  Environmental Law Compliance   
 
      Most of our operations are affected by federal, state and/or local environmental laws. We have made, and intend to continue to make, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable laws.
We also are cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites (see Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements,    Legal Proceedings and Contingencies,    in our 2007 Financial Report).   
 
 As a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2007 for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activity as follows:  

environment-related capital expenditures      64 million  
 
 other environment-related expenses      178 million  
 While we cannot predict with certainty future  
 
 capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance, we do not believe they will have a material effect on our capital expenditures or competitive position.  
 
  Tax Matters   
 
      The discussion of tax-related matters in Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements,    Taxes on Income,    in our 2007
Financial Report, is incorporated by reference.  

Employees   
 
      In our innovation-intensive business, our employees are vital to our success. We believe we have good relationships with our employees. As of December 31, 2007, we employed approximately 86,600
people in our operations throughout the world.  
 
  ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS AND CAUTIONARY FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS   
 
      The statements in this Section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  
 
       Our disclosure and analysis in this 2007 Form 10-K and in our 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders contain some forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on
management s plans and assumptions. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public, as well as oral forward-looking statements. Such statements give our current expectations or
forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. We have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as  anticipate,   estimate,   expect, 
 project,   intend,   plan,   believe,   will,   target ,  forecast  and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance or
business plans or prospects. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales
efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results.   
 
       We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to
risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could   

13  

differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements.   
 
       We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further
disclosures we make on related subjects in our 10-Q and 8-K reports to the SEC. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. These are factors
that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You
should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.   
 
  Government Regulation and Managed Care Trends   
 
      U.S. and foreign governmental regulations mandating price controls and limitations on patient access to our products impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by
changes in such regulations. In the U.S., many of our pharmaceutical products are subject to increasing pricing pressures. Such pressures have increased as the result of the 2003 Medicare Act due to the enhanced purchasing power of the private
sector plans that negotiate on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries. In addition, if the 2003 Medicare Act were amended to impose direct governmental price controls and access restrictions, it would have a significant adverse impact on our business. In
addition, MCOs, as well as Medicaid and other government agencies, continue to seek price discounts. Some states have implemented and other states are considering price controls or patient-access constraints under the Medicaid program and some
states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not Medicaid eligible. Other matters also could be the subject of U.S. federal or state legislative or  

regulatory action that could adversely affect our business, including changes in patent laws, the importation of prescription drugs from outside the U.S. at prices that are regulated by the governments of various foreign
countries and restrictions on U.S. direct-to- consumer advertising or limitations on interactions with healthcare professionals.  
 
      The prohibition on the use of federal funds for reimbursement of ED medications by the Medicaid program, which became effective January 1, 2006, and the similar federal funding prohibition for
the Medicare program, which became effective January 1, 2007, has had an adverse effect on our business. Any prohibitions on the use of federal funds for reimbursement of other classes of drugs in the future may also have an adverse
effect.  
 
      We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. In Europe and some other international markets, the government provides healthcare at low direct cost to
consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. This international patchwork of price regulation has led to different prices and some third-party trade in
our products from markets with lower prices. Such trade exploiting price differences between countries can undermine our sales in markets with higher prices. As a result, it is expected that pressures on the pricing component of operating results
will continue.  
 
  Generic Competition   
 
      Competition from manufacturers of generic drugs is a major challenge for us around the world. Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for one of our products, or upon the
 at-risk  launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of our products, we can lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very short
period, which can adversely affect our business. The U.S. basic patent for    Norvasc    expired in 2007 and a generic version was launched promptly. The U.S. basic patent for
   Zyrtec/Zyrtec D    expired in December 2007 and an over-the-counter version was launched in late January 2008 by the purchaser of  

14  

our Consumer Healthcare business. The U.S. basic patent for    Camptosar    expired in February 2008. Also, the patents covering several of our most
important medicines, including    Lipitor, Celebrex, Detrol/Detrol LA, Caduet    and    Aricept,    are being
challenged by generic manufacturers. In addition, our patent-protected products may face competition in the form of generic versions of branded products of competitors that lose their market exclusivity. For example,    Lipitor    began to face competition from generic pravastatin (Pravachol) and generic simvastatin (Zocor) during 2006.  
 
  Competitive Products   
 
      We cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products or their possible effect on our sales. Products that compete with our drugs, including some of
our best-selling medicines, are launched from time to time. Launches of a number of competitive products have occurred in recent years, and certain potentially competitive products are in various stages of development, some of which have been filed
for approval with the FDA and with regulatory authorities in other countries.  
 
  Dependence on Key In-Line and New Products   
 
      We recorded product sales of more than  1 billion for each of eight pharmaceutical products in 2007:    Lipitor, Norvasc, Lyrica, Celebrex, Viagra,
Detrol/Detrol LA, Xalatan/Xalacom    and 
  Zyrtec/Zyrtec D   . Those products accounted for 58.0% of our total Pharmaceutical revenues in 2007.    Lipitor    sales in 2007 were approximately  12.7 billion, accounting for 28.4% of our total 2007 Pharmaceutical revenues. The U.S. basic patents for    Norvasc    and
   Zyrtec/Zyrtec D    expired in 2007. If the other six products or any of our other major products were to become subject to problems such as loss of patent protection, changes in
prescription growth rates, material product liability litigation, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence or pressure from existing competitive products, or if a new, more effective treatment
should be introduced, the adverse impact on our revenues could be significant. As noted, patents covering several of our best-selling  

medicines have recently expired or will expire in the next few years, and patents covering a number of our best-selling medicines are the subject of pending legal challenges. In addition, our revenues could be significantly
impacted by the timing and rate of commercial acceptance of key new products, including    Lyrica, Sutent, Chantix/Champix    and    Selzentry/Celsentri   .  
 
  Uncertainty Relating to COX-2 Medicines   
 
      Our ability to further increase    Celebrex    sales may be limited by the continuing concern about the safety of
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory pain relievers.  
 
  Research and Development Investment   
 
      The discovery and development of new products as well as the development of additional uses for existing products is very important to the success of the Company. However, balancing current
growth and investment for the future remains a major challenge. Our ongoing investments in new product introductions and in research and development for new products and existing product extensions could exceed corresponding sales growth. This could
produce higher costs without a proportional increase in revenues.  
 
  Development, Regulatory Approval and Marketing of Products   
 
      Risks and uncertainties apply particularly with respect to product-related, forward-looking statements. The outcome of the lengthy and complex process of identifying new compounds and
developing new products is inherently uncertain. There can be no assurance as to whether or when we will receive regulatory approval for new products or for new indications or dosage forms for existing products. Decisions by regulatory authorities
regarding labeling and other matters could adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products. There also are many considerations that can affect marketing of pharmaceutical products around the world. Regulatory delays, the
inability to successfully complete clinical trials, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy, new discoveries, patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects are  

15  

a few of the factors that could adversely affect the realization of research and development and product-related, forward-looking statements.  
 
  Research Studies   
 
      Decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a drug candidate can have a substantial impact on the marketing strategy once the drug receives approval. More detailed
studies may demonstrate additional benefits that can help in the marketing, but they consume time and resources and can delay submitting the drug candidate for initial approval. We try to plan clinical trials prudently, but there is no guarantee
that a proper balance of speed and testing will be made in each case. The quality of our decisions in this area could affect our future results.  
 
  Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Risk   
 
      52.2% of our total 2007 revenues were derived from international operations, including 32.9% from the Europe/Canada region and 13.4% from the Japan/Asia region. These international-based
revenues as well as our substantial international net assets expose our revenues and earnings to foreign currency exchange rate changes. In addition, our interest-bearing investments, loans and borrowings are subject to risk from changes in interest
rates. These risks and the measures we have taken to help contain them are discussed in the section entitled Financial Risk Management in our 2007 Financial Report. For additional details, see Note 10-D to our consolidated financial statements,
   Financial Instruments: Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities,    in our 2007 Financial Report. Those sections of our 2007 Financial Report are incorporated by
reference.  
 
      Notwithstanding our efforts to foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in fiscal circumstances, we cannot predict with certainty changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other
related factors affecting our businesses.  
 
  Risks Affecting International Operations   
 
      Our international operations also could be affected by changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations and  

procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, reimbursement and marketing of products, as well as by unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes. Any of these changes could
adversely affect our business.  
 
  Product Manufacturing and Marketing Risks   
 
      Difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or marketing, including, but not limited to, the inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand or the failure to predict
market demand for, or to gain market acceptance of, approved products, could affect future results.  
 
  Cost and Expense Control/Unusual Events   
 
      Growth in costs and expenses, changes in product, segment and geographic mix and the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, product withdrawals and other unusual events that
could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization and organizational restructuring could adversely affect future results. Such risks and uncertainties include, in particular, our ability to realize the projected
benefits of our cost-reduction initiatives.  
 
  Changes in Laws and Accounting Standards   
 
      Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax-rate changes, new tax laws and
revised tax law interpretations), competition laws and environmental laws in the U.S. and other countries.  
 
  Terrorist Activity   
 
      Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions, including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of terrorist
activity in the U.S. and other parts of the world and related U.S. military action overseas.  

16  

Legal Proceedings   
 
      We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial, securities, environmental and tax litigations and claims, government investigations,
and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. Although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in
the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period.  
 
      Patent claims include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. Although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with
respect to all our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the drug at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of
that drug and could materially affect future results of operations.  
 
  Business Development Activities   
 
      We plan to enhance our product pipeline through acquisitions, licensing and alliances (see
 Regulatory Environment and Pipeline Productivity  under  Our Operating Environment and Response to Key Opportunities and Challenges  in our 2007 Financial Report, which section is incorporated by reference). However, these enhancement plans are subject to the availability and cost of appropriate opportunities and competition from other pharmaceutical companies
that are seeking similar opportunities.  
 
  Information Technology   
 
      We rely to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems and infrastructure. The size and complexity of our computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown,
malicious intrusion and random attack. Likewise, data privacy breaches by employees and others with permitted access to our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. While we have invested
heavily in protection of data and  

information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business.  
 
  ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS   
 
      Not applicable.  
 
  ITEM 2. PROPERTIES   
 
      Our corporate headquarters and the headquarters of our Worldwide Pharmaceuticals and Animal Health businesses are located at our world headquarters, which includes several owned and leased
buildings in New York City.  
 
      For our Worldwide Pharmaceuticals business, we own and lease space around the world for sales and marketing, administrative support and customer service functions.  
 
      Our Global Research and Development and Biotechnology and Bioinnovation Center divisions are headquartered in owned and leased facilities in New London, Connecticut and South San Francisco,
California, respectively. We operate both divisions in 17 locations around the world. More efficient use of our R D facilities is a component of Pfizer s cost-reduction initiatives and the expansion of those initiatives was announced on
January 22, 2007. Since that time, the majority of R D activities in Ann Arbor, Plymouth Township and several buildings in Kalamazoo, Michigan have been concluded, and disposition efforts are underway for those sites. R D operations will
continue, as noted below, in other retained buildings in Kalamazoo. Disposition alternatives, subject to consultation with works councils and local labor laws, are also being pursued in Amboise, France and Nagoya, Japan.  
 
      We have veterinary medicine research and development operations in owned facilities in Henrietta, Kalamazoo and Richland Township, Michigan, and Sandwich, England. Additionally, these
operations occupy leased facilities in Melbourne, Australia.  
 
      Our Global Manufacturing (PGM) division is headquartered in New York, NY and in Peapack, NJ and operates plants in 57 locations around the world that manufacture products for our  

17  

Pharmaceutical and Animal Health businesses. Major facilities are located in Belgium, Brazil, China, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Puerto Rico, Singapore, Sweden, the United Kingdom and the United States.
The Global Manufacturing division also operates distribution facilities in major markets around the world. As part of Pfizer s Transformation and Plant Network Strategy productivity initiatives, 12 of the manufacturing facilities are scheduled
to be sold or closed within the next several years as Global Manufacturing continues to optimize its plant network. This includes a number of plants that were announced for closure in early 2007 as part of Pfizer s streamlining initiatives.
Studies are underway to further consolidate the distribution network.  
 
      In general, our properties are well maintained, adequate and suitable for their purposes. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements,
 Property, Plant and Equipment , in our 2007 Financial Report, which discloses amounts invested in land, buildings and equipment, which is incorporated by reference. See also the
discussion  

under Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements,    Lease Commitments   , in our 2007 Financial Report, which is also incorporated by
reference.  
 
  ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   
 
      Certain legal proceedings in which we are involved are discussed in Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements,    Legal Proceedings and
Contingencies   , in our 2007 Financial Report, which is incorporated by reference.  
 
  ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS   
 
      Not applicable.  

18  

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY   
 
      The executive officers of the Company are set forth in this table. Each holds the offices indicated until his or her successor is chosen and qualified at the regular meeting of the Board of
Directors to be held immediately following the 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Each of the executive officers is a member of the Pfizer Executive Leadership Team.  

Name   	 

Age   	 

Position   	 

Jeffrey B. Kindler 	 

52 	 

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 	 

Richard H. Bagger 	 

47 	 

Senior Vice President, Worldwide Public Affairs and Policy, since 	 

August 2006. Since joining Pfizer in 1993, Mr. Bagger has held 	 

various positions of increasing responsibility in Pfizer s Corporate 	 

Affairs Division. He was promoted to Vice President, Government 	 

Relations in 2002 and to Senior Vice President, Government 	 

Relations in 2003. He assumed additional responsibility for Public 	 

Affairs and Policy in 2005. Prior to joining Pfizer, he was Assistant 	 

General Counsel of Blue Cross and Blue Shield of New Jersey and 	 

previously practiced law with the firm of McCarter and English. 	 

Mr. Bagger also served in both houses of the New Jersey 	 

legislature. 	 

Frank A. D Amelio 	 

50 	 

Senior Vice President   Chief Financial Officer 	 

Joseph M. Feczko 	 

58 	 

Senior Vice President and Chief Medical Officer, since August 	 

2006. Dr. Feczko has held various positions of increasing 	 

responsibility in research and development and medical and 	 

regulatory operations. After four years as Medical Director at 	 

Glaxo s Research   Development headquarters in London, Dr. 	 

Feczko returned to Pfizer in 1996 and was promoted to the position 	 

of Senior Vice President, Medical and Regulatory Operations for 	 

Global Pharmaceuticals. He was promoted to his position as Chief 	 

Medical Officer in 2002. Dr. Feczko, who is board-certified in 	 

Internal Medicine and a specialist in infectious diseases, joined us 	 

in 1982. 	 

Corey S. Goodman 	 

56 	 

Senior Vice President; President of Pfizer s Biotherapeutics and 	 

Bioinnovation Center, since October 2007. Dr. Goodman has 	 

advised numerous biotechnology companies and co-founded two 	 

companies, Exelixis and Renovis, Inc. He served as President and 	 

Chief Executive Officer of Renovis from 2001 until 2007. Dr. 	 

Goodman was a professor at the University of California, Berkeley 	 

from 1987 to 2001, and, while on faculty, served as the Evan Rauch 	 

Professor of Neuroscience, the Director of the Wills Neuroscience 	 

Institute and an Investigator with the Howard Hughes Medical 	 

Institute. Dr. Goodman is an Adjunct Professor at the University of 	 

California San Francisco and an elected member of the U.S. 	 

National Academy of Sciences. He is a Director of Renovis, Inc. 	 

John L. LaMattina 	 

57 	 

Senior Vice President; President, Pfizer Research and Development 	 

(retired at year-end 2007) 	 

19  

Martin Mackay 	 

51 	 

Senior Vice President; President of Pfizer Global Research   	 

Development 	 

Mary McLeod 	 

51 	 

Senior Vice President of Pfizer s Worldwide Human Resources, 	 

since April 2007. She served in this role on an interim basis from 	 

January to April 2007 while she was a consultant at Korn 	 

Consulting Group. Prior to that, she led Human Resources for 	 

Symbol Technologies from 2005 to 2006 and was the head of 	 

Human Resources for Charles Schwab, from 2001 to 2004. From 	 

1999 to 2001, she was Vice President-Human Resources for Cisco 	 

Systems and prior to that, Vice President of Human Resources for 	 

General Electric Company from 1992 to 1997. On February
28, 2008, she was appointed a Director of Belden Inc. 	 

Ian C. Read 	 

54 	 

Senior Vice President; President, Worldwide Pharmaceutical 	 

Operations 	 

Natale S. Ricciardi 	 

59 	 

Senior Vice President; President   Pfizer Global Manufacturing 	 

since October 2004. He held a number of positions of increasing 	 

responsibility in manufacturing before being named U.S. Area Vice 	 

President/Team Leader for Pfizer Global Manufacturing in 1999. 	 

Mr. Ricciardi joined us in 1972. He is a Director of Mediacom 	 

Communications Corp. 	 

David L. Shedlarz 	 

60 	 

Vice Chairman 	 

(retired at year-end 2007) 	 

Sally Susman 	 

46 	 

Senior Vice President - Chief Communications Officer since 	 

February 2008. Prior to joining Pfizer, Ms. Susman held senior 	 

level positions at The Estee Lauder Companies, including Executive 	 

Vice President from December 2004 to January 2008 and Senior 	 

Vice President   Global Communications from September 2000 	 

through November 2004. Earlier in her career, Ms. Susman was 	 

responsible for all of American Express International s internal and 	 

external communications and governmental affairs and spent eight 	 

years in government service focused on international trade issues. 	 

Allen P. Waxman 	 

45 	 

Senior Vice President and General Counsel, since August 2006. Mr. 	 

Waxman joined Pfizer in 2003 as Senior Assistant General Counsel 	 

and Chief of Litigation. He was promoted to Associate General 	 

Counsel in 2005 and to General Counsel in 2006. Prior to joining 	 

Pfizer, Mr. Waxman was a partner at the law firm of Williams   	 

Connolly, LLP in Washington D.C., since 1995, and during that 	 

same period was an adjunct professor of law at Georgetown 	 

University Law Center. 	 

Information concerning Mr. Kindler, Dr. LaMattina and Messrs. D Amelio, Mackay, Read and Shedlarz is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the headings    Nominees For Directors    and    Named Executive Officers Who Are Not Directors    in our 2008 Proxy Statement.  
 
 20  

PART II   

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE COMPANY S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES   
 
      The principal market for our Common Stock is the New York Stock Exchange. Our stock is also listed on the London, Euronext and Swiss Stock Exchanges and is traded on various United States
regional stock exchanges. Additional information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the table captioned
 Quarterly Consolidated Financial Data (Unaudited)  in our 2007 Financial Report.  
 
      This table provides certain information with respect to our purchases of shares of the Company s Common Stock during the fiscal fourth quarter of 2007:  
   Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities(a)   

(a)        
          On June 23, 2005, Pfizer announced
            that the Board of Directors had authorized a  5 billion share-purchase
            plan (the  2005 Stock Purchase Plan ). On June 26, 2006, Pfizer
            announced that the Board of Directors increased
            the 2005 Stock Purchase Plan authorization from  5 billion to  18
            billion. On January 23, 2008, Pfizer announced that the Board of
            Directors had authorized a new  5 billion share-purchase plan
            to be utilized from time to time.   

(b)        
          In addition to purchases under
            the 2005 Stock Purchase Plan, this column reflects the following
            transactions during the fiscal fourth quarter of 2007: (i) the deemed
            surrender to Pfizer of nil shares of common stock to pay the exercise
            price and to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with
            the exercise of employee stock options; (ii) the open-market purchase
            by the trustee of 102,985 shares of common stock in connection with
            the reinvestment of dividends paid on common stock held in trust
            for employees who were granted performance-contingent share awards
            and who deferred receipt of such awards and (iii) the surrender to
            Pfizer of 46,110 shares of common stock to satisfy tax withholding
            obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock issued
            to employees.   

21  

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA   
 
      Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the    Financial Summary    in our 2007 Financial
Report.  
 
  ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   
 
      Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the Financial Review section of our 2007 Financial Report.  
 
  ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   
 
      Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading    Financial Risk Management    in our 2007 Financial Report.  
 
  ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   
 
      Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the Consolidated Financial
Statements    in our 2007 Financial Report and from the consolidated financial statements, related notes and supplementary data in our 2007 Financial Report.  
 
  ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE   
 
      Not applicable.  
 
  ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   
 
  Disclosure Controls   
 
      As of the end of the period covered by this 2007 Form 10-K, we carried out an evaluation,  

under the supervision and with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as such term
is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act )). Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls
and procedures are effective in alerting them in a timely manner to material information required to be disclosed in our periodic reports filed with the SEC.  
 
  Internal Control over Financial Reporting   
 
      Management s report on the Company s internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act), and the related
report of our independent public accounting firm, are included in our 2007 Financial Report under the headings    Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    and    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   , respectively, and are incorporated by
reference.  
 
  Changes in Internal Controls   
 
      During our most recent fiscal quarter, there has not occurred any change in our internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the
Exchange Act) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. However, we do wish to highlight some changes which, taken together, are expected to have a favorable impact on
our controls over a multi-year period. We continue to pursue a multi-year initiative to outsource some transaction-processing activities within certain accounting processes and are migrating to a consistent enterprise resource planning system across
the organization. These are enhancements of ongoing activities to support the growth of our financial shared service capabilities and standardize our financial systems. None of these initiatives is in response to any identified deficiency or
weakness in our internal control over financial reporting.  

22  

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION   
 
      Not applicable.  
 
  PART III   
 
  ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   
 
      Information about our
Directors is incorporated by reference from the discussion under Item 1 of our
2008 Proxy Statement. Information about compliance with Section 16(a) of the
Exchange Act is  incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading  Section
16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in
our 2008 Proxy Statement. Information about the  Pfizer Policies on Business
Conduct governing our employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer, and the Code of Business
Conduct and Ethics governing our Directors, is incorporated by  reference from
the discussion under the heading  Pfizer Policies
on Business Ethics and Conduct  in our 2008
Proxy Statement. Information regarding the procedures by which our  stockholders
may recommend nominees to our board of directors is incorporated by reference
from the discussion under the  heading  Requirements, Including Deadlines,
for Submission of Proxy Proposals, Nomination of Directors and Other Business
of Shareholders  in our 2008 Proxy Statement. Information about our
Audit Committee, including the members of the Committee, and our Audit Committee
financial experts, is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the
headings  The Audit Committee and Audit Committee
 Financial Experts  in our 2008 Proxy Statement. The balance of the information
 required by this item is contained in the discussion entitled  Executive
 Officers of the Company  in Part I of this 2007 Form 10-K.  
 
  ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION   
 
      Information about Director and executive compensation is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the headings:    2007   

Compensation of Non-Employee Directors, Executive Compensation, Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation    in our 2008 Proxy Statement.  
 
  ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS   
 
      Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the headings    Securities Ownership of Management    and    Equity Compensation Plan Information    in our 2008 Proxy Statement.  
 
  ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE   
 
      Information about certain relationships and transactions with related parties is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the headings 
  Review of Related Person Transactions    and    Transactions with Related Persons    in our 2008 Proxy Statement.
Information about director independence is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading    Director Independence    in our 2008 Proxy Statement.  
 
  ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES   
 
      Information about the fees for professional services rendered by our independent auditors in 2007 and 2006 is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading    Audit and Non-Audit Fees    in Item 2 of our 2008 Proxy Statement. Our Audit Committee s policy on pre-approval of audit and permissible non-audit services of our independent auditors is
incorporated by reference from the section captioned    Policy on Audit Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    in Item 2 of our 2008 Proxy Statement.  

23  

PART IV   
 
       ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   
 
       15(a)(1) Financial Statements.    The following consolidated financial statements, related notes, report of independent
registered public accounting firm and supplementary data from our 2007 Financial Report are incorporated by reference into Item 8 of Part II of this 2007 Form 10-K:  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the Consolidated Financial   Statements   
  
 Consolidated Statements of Income   
  
 Consolidated Balance Sheets   
  
 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity   
  
 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   
  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  
 Quarterly Consolidated Financial Data (Unaudited)   

15(a)(2) Financial
Statement Schedules.    Schedules are omitted
because they are not required or because the information is provided elsewhere
in the financial statements. The financial statements of unconsolidated
subsidiaries are omitted because, considered in the aggregate, they would not
constitute a significant subsidiary. 
 
       15(a)(3) Exhibits.
   These exhibits are available upon request.
Requests should be directed to Margaret M. Foran, Senior Vice
President-Corporate Governance, Associate General Counsel and Corporate
Secretary, Pfizer Inc., 235 East 42nd Street, New York, NY 10017-5755. The
exhibit numbers preceded by an asterisk (*) indicate exhibits physically filed
with this 2007 Form 10-K. All other exhibit numbers indicate exhibits filed by
incorporation by reference. Exhibit numbers 10(1) through 10(30) are management
contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.  

1        
	 
 We agree to furnish to the SEC, upon request, a copy of each exhibit to this Agreement and Plan of Merger. 	 

2        
	 
 We agree to furnish to the SEC, upon request, a copy of each instrument with respect to issuances of long-term debt of the Company and its subsidiaries. 	 

24  

25  

26  

SIGNATURES   
 
      Under the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report was signed on behalf of the Registrant by the authorized person named
below.  

Pfizer Inc. 	 

Dated: February 29, 2008 	 

By:    /s/ Margaret M. Foran  	 

Margaret M. Foran, 	 

Senior Vice President-Corporate 	 

Governance, Associate General Counsel 	 

and Corporate Secretary 	 

We, the undersigned directors and officers of Pfizer Inc., hereby severally constitute Margaret M. Foran and Allen P. Waxman, and each of them singly, our true and lawful
attorneys with full power to them and each of them to sign for us, in our names in the capacities indicated below, any and all amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 
      Under the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report was signed by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date
indicated.  

Signature   	 

Title   	 

Date   	 

/s/ Jeffrey B. Kindler  	 

Chairman of the Board and 	 

February 29, 2008 	 

Jeffrey B. Kindler 	 

Chief Executive Officer and Director 	 

(Principal Executive Officer) 	 

/s/ Frank A. D Amelio  	 

Senior Vice President and 	 

February 29, 2008 	 

Frank A. D Amelio 	 

Chief Financial Officer 	 

(Principal Financial Officer) 	 

/s/ Loretta . Cangialosi  	 

Vice President - Controller 	 

February 29, 2008 	 

Loretta V. Cangialosi 	 

(Principal Accounting Officer) 	 

/s/ Dennis A. Ausiello  	 

Director 	 

February 29, 2008 	 

Dennis A. Ausiello 	 

/s/ Michael S. Brown  	 

Director 	 

February 29, 2008 	 

Michael S. Brown 	 

/s/ M. Anthony Burns  	 

Director 	 

February 29, 2008 	 

M. Anthony Burns 	 

/s/ Robert N. Burt  	 

Director 	 

February 29, 2008 	 

Robert N. Burt 	 

/s/ W. Don Cornwell  	 

Director 	 

February 29, 2008 	 

W. Don Cornwell 	 

/s/ William H. Gray III  	 

Director 	 

February 29, 2008 	 

William H. Gray III 	 

/s/ Constance J. Horner  	 

Director 	 

February 29, 2008 	 

Constance J. Horner 	 

<EX-12>
 2
 c52104_ex12.htm

Exhibit 12  
 
 PFIZER INC AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES   
 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES  

All financial information reflects the following as discontinued operations for all periods presented: the Consumer Healthcare business; for 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003: certain European generics businesses; and for 2004 and
2003: our in-vitro allergy and autoimmune diagnostics testing, and surgical ophthalmics.   
 
 All financial information reflects the following as
discontinued operations for 2003: our confectionery, shaving and fish-care products
businesses, as well as the Estrostep, Loestrin and femhrt women's health product
lines for all the years presented.     

(a)            
   
  Interest expense includes amortization
    of debt premium,  discount and expenses. Interest expense does not include
    interest related to uncertain tax positions  of $331 million for 2007; $200
    million for 2006; $203 million for 2005;  $201 million for 2004 and $180
    million for 2003.   

(b)  
   
  Preferred stock dividends are from our Series A convertible perpetual preferred stock held by an Employee Stock Ownership Plan assumed in connection with our acquisition of Pharmacia.   

(c)  
   
  Rents included in the computation consist of one-third of rental expense which we believe to be a conservative estimate of an interest factor in our leases, which are not material.   

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 3
 c52104_ex13.htm

Exhibit 13  

P f i z e r  I n c .  

  2 0 0 7  F i n a n c i a l  R e p o r t  

Financial Review    

Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

Introduction   

  Our Financial Review is provided in
addition to the accompanying consolidated financial statements and footnotes to
assist readers in understanding Pfizer s results of operations, financial
condition and cash flows. The Financial Review is organized as follows:  

Overview of Our Performance and
 Operating Environment.   This section provides information
 about the following: our business; our 2007 performance; our operating
 environment and response to key opportunities and challenges; our
 cost-reduction initiatives; our strategic initiatives, such as significant
 licensing and new business development transactions, as well as the disposition
 of our Consumer Healthcare business in December 2006; and our expectations
 for 2008.   

Accounting Policies.   This
 section, beginning on page 11, discusses those accounting policies that we
 consider important in understanding Pfizer s consolidated financial
 statements. For additional accounting policies, see Notes to Consolidated
 Financial Statements  Note 1. Significant
 Accounting Policies.    

Analysis of the Consolidated Statement
 of Income.   This section, beginning on page 14, provides an analysis
 of our revenues and products for the three years ended December 31, 2007,
 including an overview of important product developments; a discussion about
 our costs and expenses, including an analysis of the financial statement
 impact of our discontinued operations and dispositions during the period; and
 a discussion of Adjusted income, which is an alternative view of performance
 used by management.   

Financial Condition, Liquidity and
 Capital Resources.   This section, beginning on page 29,
 provides an analysis of our balance sheet as of December 31, 2007 and 2006,
 and cash flows for each of the three years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and
 2005, as well as a discussion of our outstanding debt and commitments that
 existed as of December 31, 2007. Included in the discussion of outstanding
 debt is a discussion of the amount of financial capacity available to help
 fund Pfizer s future activities.   

New Accounting Standards.   This
 section, beginning on page 32, discusses accounting standards that we have
 recently adopted, as well as those that have been recently issued, but not
 yet adopted by us. For those standards that we have not yet adopted, we have
 included a discussion of the expected impact to Pfizer, if known.   

Forward-Looking Information and Factors
 That May Affect Future Results.   This section, beginning on page 33,
 provides a description of the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual
 results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking
 statements presented in this Financial Review relating to our financial
 results, operations and business plans and prospects. Such forward-looking
 statements are based on management s current expectations about future
 events, which are inherently susceptible to uncertainty and changes in
 circumstances. Also included in this section are discussions of Financial
 Risk Management and Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.   

Overview of Our Performance and Operating Environment   

   Our Business   

  We are a global, research-based
company applying innovative science to improve world health. Our efforts in
support of that purpose include the discovery, development, manufacture and
marketing of safe and effective medicines; the exploration of ideas that
advance the frontiers of science and medicine; and the support of programs
dedicated to illness prevention, health and wellness, and increased access to
quality healthcare. Our value proposition is to demonstrate that our medicines
can effectively prevent and treat disease, including the associated symptoms and
suffering, and can form the basis for an overall improvement in healthcare
systems and their related costs. Our revenues are derived from the sale of our
products, as well as through alliance agreements, under which we co-promote
products discovered by other companies.  

  Our Pharmaceutical segment
represented approximately 92% of our total revenues in 2007 and, therefore,
developments relating to the pharmaceutical industry can have a significant
impact on our operations.  

   Our 2007 Performance   

  We delivered a solid performance in
2007, reflecting the favorable impact of foreign exchange, the important
contributions of many of our products launched since 2005 and our in-line
products in the aggregate performing well in a tough operating environment,
largely offset by revenue declines from the loss of U.S. exclusivity of Zoloft
in August 2006 and Norvasc in March 2007, and other factors.  

  Specifically, in 2007:  

Revenues   of $48.4 billion
 were flat compared to 2006, due primarily to the favorable impact of foreign
 exchange, an aggregate year-over-year increase in revenues from products
 launched since 2005 and the solid aggregate performance of the balance of our
 broad portfolio of patent-protected medicines, offset by the impact of loss
 of U.S. exclusivity on Zoloft in August 2006 and Norvasc in March 2007.
 Zoloft and Norvasc collectively experienced a decline in revenues of about
 $3.5 billion in 2007 compared to 2006. These declines were offset by an
 aggregate revenue increase in new products and the balance of our portfolio
 of patent-protected products and alliance revenues, such as:   

As of November 2007, our portfolio of
medicines included three of the world s 25 best-selling medicines, with seven  

2007 Financial Report  |  1   

Financial Review    

Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

medicines that led their therapeutic areas based on
 revenues. (See further discussion in the  Analysis of the Consolidated
 Statement of Income  section of this Financial Review.)  

Decision to Exit Exubera:   

Exubera was the first inhaled insulin therapy for the
 treatment of diabetes, and since May 2006, had been launched in Germany,
 Ireland, the U.K. and the U.S. In the third quarter of 2007, after an
 assessment of the financial performance of Exubera, as well as its lack of
 acceptance by patients, physicians and payers, we decided to exit the
 product.  

Our Exubera-related exit plans included working with
 physicians over a three-month period to transition patients to other
 treatment options, evaluating redeployment options for colleagues, working
 with our partners and vendors with respect to transition and exit activities,
 working with regulators on concluding outstanding clinical trials,
 implementing an extended transition program for those patients unable to   

transition to other medications within the three-month
 period, and exploring asset disposal or redeployment opportunities, as
 appropriate, among other activities.  

As part of this exit plan, in 2007, we paid $135 million
 to one of our partners in satisfaction of all remaining obligations under
 existing agreements relating to Exubera and a next generation insulin (NGI)
 under development. In addition, in the event that a new partner is selected,
 we have agreed to transfer our remaining rights and all economic benefits for
 Exubera and NGI. This transfer of our interests would include the transfer of
 the Exubera New Drug Application and Investigational New Drug Applications
 and all non-U.S. regulatory filings and applications, continuation of ongoing
 Exubera clinical trials and certain supply chain transition activities.  

Total pre-tax charges for 2007 were $2.8 billion,
 virtually all of which were recorded in the third quarter. The financial
 statement line items in which the various charges are recorded and related
 activity are as follows:  

(a)   
       Includes adjustments
          for foreign currency translation.   

(b)   
       Amortization of these
          assets had previously been recorded in  Cost of sales  and  Selling,
          informational and administrative expenses .   

(c)   
       Included in  Other
            current liabilities  ($375 million) and  Other noncurrent liabilities  ($39
            million).   

The asset write-offs (intangibles, inventory and fixed
 assets) represent non-cash charges. The other exit costs, primarily
 severance, contract and other termination costs, as well as other
 liabilities, are associated with marketing and research programs, and
 manufacturing operations related to Exubera. These exit costs resulted in
 cash expenditures in 2007 (such as the $135 million settlement referred to
 above) and will result in additional cash expenditures in 2008. We expect
 that substantially all of the cash spending will be completed within the next
 year. During the exit of this product, certain additional cash costs will be
 incurred and reported in future periods, such as maintenance-level operating
 costs. However, those future costs are not expected to be significant. We
 expect that substantially all exit activities will be completed within the
 next year.  

Income from continuing operations before
 cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles  was $8.2
 billion compared to $11.0 billion in 2006. The decrease was primarily due to
 event-driven expenses, such as:  

o  

higher asset impairment charges. In 2007, we expensed $2.8
 billion, pre-tax, related to our decision to exit Exubera, compared to $320
 million, pre-tax, in 2006, related to the impairment of our Depo-Provera
 intangible asset; and  

o  

higher restructuring charges and acquisition-related costs
 associated with our expanded cost-reduction initiatives,  

partially offset by:  

o  

lower  Acquisition-related
 in-process research and development charges  (IPR D). In 2007,
 we incurred IPR D expenses of $283 million, pre-tax, primarily related to
 our acquisitions of BioRexis Pharmaceutical Corp. (BioRexis) and Embrex, Inc.
 (Embrex), compared with IPR D of $835 million, pre-tax, in 2006,
 primarily related to our acquisitions of PowderMed Ltd. (PowderMed), and
 Rinat Neuroscience Corp. (Rinat);  

o  

higher interest income compared to 2006, due primarily to
 higher net financial assets during 2007 compared to 2006, reflecting proceeds
 of $16.6 billion from the sale of our Consumer Healthcare business, and
 higher interest rates; and  

o  

a lower effective income tax rate. In 2007, our effective
 tax rate on continuing operations of 11.0% was lower than the 15.3% rate in
 2006, which largely reflects the tax impact of our decision to exit Exubera
 in 2007, the tax impact of higher cost-reduction expenditures in 2007
 compared to 2006 and the volume and geographic mix of product sales in 2007
 compared to 2006.  

Discontinued operations net of tax   were losses
 of $69 million in 2007, compared with income of $8.3 billion in 2006. The
 results in 2006 relate primarily to our former Consumer Healthcare business,
 which was sold on December 20, 2006. The 2006 amount includes the gain on the
 sale of this business of   

2    |     2007 Financial
Report    

Financial Review 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

approximately $7.9 billion, after tax. (See further
 discussion in the  Our Strategic Initiatives Strategy and Recent
 Transactions: Dispositions  and  Analysis of the Consolidated Statement of
 Income  sections of this Financial Review.)  

Acquisitions   We
 completed a number of strategic acquisitions that we believe will strengthen
 and broaden our existing pharmaceutical capabilities. In 2007, we acquired
 BioRexis, a privately held biopharmaceutical company with a number of
 diabetes candidates and a novel technology platform for developing new
 protein drug candidates, and Embrex, an animal health company that possesses
 a unique vaccine delivery system known as Inovoject that improves consistency
 and reliability by inoculating chicks while they are still inside the egg.
 (See further discussion in the  Our Strategic Initiatives Strategy and Recent
 Transactions: Acquisitions, Licensing and Collaborations  section of this
 Financial Review.)   

Cost-reduction initiatives   We made
 significant progress with our cost-reduction initiatives, which are a
 broad-based, company-wide effort to improve performance and efficiency. We
 incurred related costs of approximately $3.9 billion in 2007, $2.1 billion in
 2006 and $763 million in 2005. Building on what had already been
 accomplished, in January 2007, we announced additional plans to change the
 way we run our business to meet the challenges of a changing business
 environment and to take advantage of the diverse opportunities in the
 marketplace. We are generating cost reductions through site rationalizations
 in Research and Development (R D) and manufacturing, streamlining
 organizational structures, sales force and staff function reductions, and
 increased outsourcing and procurement savings. (See further discussion in the
  Cost-Reduction Initiatives  section of this Financial Review.)   

On January 23, 2008, we filed a
Current Report on Form 8-K, which included a press release announcing our
fourth-quarter and full-year 2007 financial results. In completing our final
analysis, we determined that our accruals related to U.S. rebate liabilities
were understated by $195 million, pre-tax, and $154 million, after-tax. While not material to understanding
fourth quarter and full year 2007 financial results contained in our January
23, 2008, press release, the amounts disclosed above have been recorded in our
actual results for the fourth quarter and full year 2007. We believe noting
this change is beneficial to understanding our actual results for the fourth
quarter and full year 2007 contained in this financial report. The
impact of this change was as follows:  

*  

For an understanding of Adjusted
 income, see the  Adjusted income  section of this Financial Review.  

Our Operating Environment and Response to Key Opportunities and
Challenges   

  We and our industry continue to face
significant challenges in a profoundly changing business environment, and we
are taking steps to fundamentally change the way we run our businesses to meet
these challenges, as well as to take advantage of the diverse and attractive
opportunities that we see in the marketplace. In response to these challenges
and opportunities, we announced five priorities in January 2007:  

Maximize our near and long-term revenues;  

Establish a lower and more flexible cost base;  

Create smaller, more focused and more accountable
 operating areas;  

Engage more productively with customers, patients,
 physicians and other collaborators; and  

Make Pfizer a great place to work.  

We believe that we have made progress
on all of these goals. For details about our strategic initiatives, see the
 Our Strategic Initiatives Strategy and Recent Transactions  section of this
Financial Review, and for details about our cost-reduction initiatives, see the
 Cost-Reduction Initiatives  section of this Financial Review.  

  There are a number of industry-wide
factors that may affect our business and they should be considered along with
the information presented in the  Forward-Looking Information and Factors That
May Affect Future Results  section of this Financial Review. Such industry-wide
factors include pricing and access, intellectual property rights, product
competition, the regulatory environment, pipeline productivity and the changing
business environment.  

    Pricing and Access    

  We believe that our medicines provide
significant value for both healthcare providers and patients, not only from the
improved treatment of diseases, but also from a reduction in other healthcare
costs such as hospitalization or emergency room costs. Notwithstanding the
benefits of our products, the pressures from governments and other payer groups
are continuing and increasing. These pressure points can include price
controls, price cuts (directly or by rebate actions) and regulatory changes
that limit access to certain medicines.  

Governments around the world continue to seek discounts on
 our products, either by leveraging their significant purchasing power or by
 mandating prices or implementing various forms of price controls. The growing
 power of managed care organizations in the U.S. has similarly increased the
 pressure on pharmaceutical prices and access.   

In the U.S., the enactment of the Medicare Prescription
 Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the Medicare Act), which went
 into effect in 2006, expanded access to medicines to patients-in-need through
 prescription drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries. This program has been
 successfully implemented, with high levels of beneficiary satisfaction and
 lower-than-expected costs to the government due to the enhanced purchasing
 power of medical plans in the private sector to negotiate on behalf of
 Medicare beneficiaries. Despite this success, the exclusive role of medical
 plans in the private sector in negotiating prices for the Medicare drug
 benefit  

2007 Financial Report  |  3   

Financial Review 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

remains controversial and legislative changes to allow the
 federal government to directly negotiate prices with pharmaceutical
 manufacturers have been proposed. While expanded access under the Medicare
 Act has resulted in increased sales of our products, the substantial
 purchasing power of medical plans that negotiate on behalf of Medicare
 beneficiaries has increased the pressure on prices.  

In response to cost concerns by payers, utilization of
 generics is increasing as a percentage of total pharmaceutical use,
 especially in the U.S. Payers are also selectively sponsoring campaigns
 designed to interchange generic products for molecularly dissimilar branded
 products within a therapeutic category.  

Consumers have become aware of global price differences
 that result from price controls imposed by certain governments and some have
 become more vocal about their desire that governments allow the sourcing of
 medicines across national borders. In the U.S., there have been several
 proposals advanced by federal legislators to allow easier importation of
 medicines, despite the increased risk of receiving inferior or counterfeit
 products.  

Pharmaceutical promotion is highly regulated in most
 markets around the world. In the U.S., there is growing interest at both the
 federal and state level in further restricting marketing communications and
 increasing the level of disclosure of marketing activities.   

A growing number of health systems in markets around the
 world are employing comparable effectiveness evaluations and using their
 findings to inform pricing and access decisions, especially for newly
 introduced pharmaceutical products. In the U.S., there is growing interest by
 government and private payers in adopting comparable effectiveness
 methodologies. While adoption may enhance the industry s ability to
 demonstrate the relative value of its products, it is also possible that
 implemented comparative effectiveness conventions may be designed by payers
 to minimize product differences.  

Our response:  

We will continue to work within the current legal and
 pricing structures, as well as continue to review our pricing arrangements
 and contracting methods with payers, to maximize access to patients and
 minimize the impact on our revenues.  

We will continue to actively engage patients, physicians
 and payers in dialogues about the value of our products and how we can best
 work with them to prevent and treat disease, and improve outcomes.  

We will continue to encourage payers to work with us early
 in the development process to ensure that our approved products will deliver
 the value expected by those payers.  

We will continue to be a constructive force in helping to
 shape healthcare policy and regulation of our products.  

Intellectual
Property Rights    

  Our business model is highly
dependent on intellectual property rights, primarily in the form of
government-granted patent rights, and on our ability to enforce and defend
those rights around the world.  

Intellectual property legal protections and remedies are a
 significant factor in our business. Many of our products are protected by a
 wide range of patents, such as composition-of-matter patents, compound
 patents, patents covering processes and procedures and/or patents issued for
 additional indications or uses. As such, many of our products have multiple
 patents that expire at varying dates, thereby strengthening our overall patent
 protection. However, once patent protection has expired or been lost prior to
 the expiration date as the result of a legal challenge, generic
 pharmaceutical manufacturers generally produce similar products and sell
 those products for a lower price. This price competition can substantially
 decrease our revenues for products that lose exclusivity, often in a very
 short period in the U.S. in the first year after patent expiration. Revenues
 in many international markets do not have the same sharp decline compared to
 the U.S. in the first year after loss of exclusivity, due to less restrictive
 policies on generic substitution, different competitive dynamics, and less
 intervention by government/payers in physician decision-making, among other
 factors.  

The loss of patent protection with respect to any of our
 major products can have a material adverse effect on future revenues and our
 results of operations. As mentioned above, our performance in 2007 was
 significantly impacted by the loss of U.S. exclusivity of Zoloft in August
 2006 and Norvasc in March 2007. Further, we face a substantial adverse impact
 on our 2008 performance from the loss of U.S. exclusivity and cessation of
 marketing for Zyrtec/Zyrtec D in January 2008, and the expiration of our U.S.
 basic patent for Camptosar in February 2008. These four products represented
 12% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007, and 20% of
 our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006.  

Patents covering our products are also subject to legal
 challenges. Increasingly, generic pharmaceutical manufacturers are launching
 products that are under legal challenge for patent infringement before the
 final resolution of the associated legal proceedings called an  at-risk 
 launch. The success of any of these  at-risk  challenges could significantly
 impact our revenues and results of operations. Generic manufacturers are also
 advancing increasingly novel interpretations of patent law to establish
 grounds for legal challenges to branded patents.  

There is a continuing disparity in the recognition and
 enforcement of intellectual property rights among countries worldwide.
 Organizations such as the World Trade Organization (WTO), under the WTO
 Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS),
 have been instrumental in educating governments about the long-term benefits
 of strong patent laws. However, activists have used both putative ethical
 arguments and technical loopholes to weaken the pharmaceutical industry s
 position in developing markets.  

The integrity of our products is subject to an
 increasingly predatory atmosphere, seen in the growing problem of counterfeit
 drugs, which can harm patients through a lack of active ingredients, the
 inclusion of harmful components or improper accompanying packaging. Our
 ability to work with law enforcement to successfully counter these dangerous
 criminal activities will have an impact on our revenues and results of
 operations.  

4    |     2007 Financial
Report    

Financial Review 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

Our response:  

We will continue to aggressively defend our patent rights
 against increasingly aggressive infringement whenever appropriate. (See also
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note
 20. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies ).  

We will continue to participate in the generics market for
 our products, whenever appropriate, once they lose exclusivity.  

We will continue to take actions to deliver more products
 of greater value more quickly. (See further discussion in the  Regulatory
 Environment and Pipeline Productivity  section of this Financial Review.)  

We will continue to support efforts that strengthen
 worldwide recognition of patent rights, while taking necessary steps to
 ensure appropriate patient access.  

We will continue to employ innovative approaches to
 prevent counterfeit pharmaceuticals from entering the supply chain and to
 achieve greater control over the distribution of our products.  

Product Competition    

  Some of our products face competition
in the form of generic drugs or new branded products, which treat similar
diseases or indications. For example, we lost U.S. exclusivity for Zithromax in
November 2005, Zoloft in August 2006 and Norvasc in March 2007 and, as
expected, significant revenue declines followed. In addition, the U.S. basic
patent for Camptosar expired in February 2008. Lipitor began to face
competition in the U.S. from generic pravastatin (Pravachol) in April 2006 and
generic simvastatin (Zocor) in June 2006, in addition to other competitive
pressures.  

  Our response:  

We will continue to highlight the benefits of our
 products, in terms of cost, safety and efficacy, as appropriate, as we seek
 to serve significantly more patients around the world. (For detailed
 information about Lipitor and other significant products, see further
 discussion in the  Revenues Pharmaceutical Selected Product Descriptions 
 section of this Financial Review.)  

We are committed to driving innovation in product life
 cycle management by taking a broader look at our business model and examining
 it from all angles. We believe there are opportunities to better manage our
 products  growth and development throughout their entire time on the market
 and bring innovation to our  go to market  promotional and commercial
 strategies. We plan to develop ways to further enhance the value of mature
 products, as well as those close to losing their exclusivity, and to create
 product-line extensions where feasible. In connection with the production of
 these products, we are pursuing new ways to accelerate our high-quality,
 low-cost manufacturing initiatives.  

Regulatory
Environment and Pipeline Productivity    

  The discovery and development of
safe, effective new products, as well as the development of additional uses for
existing products, are necessary for the continued strength of our businesses.  

We are confronted by increasing regulatory scrutiny of
 drug safety and efficacy even as we continue to gather safety and other data
 on our products, before and after the products have been launched.  

The opportunities for improving human health remain
 abundant as scientific innovation increases daily into new and more complex
 areas and as the extent of unmet medical needs remains high.  

Our product lines must be replenished over time in order
 to offset revenue losses when products lose their exclusivity, as well as to
 provide for growth.  

Our response:  

As the world s largest privately funded biomedical
 operation, and through our global scale, we will continue to develop and
 deliver innovative medicines that will benefit patients around the world. We
 will continue to make the investments necessary to serve patients  needs and
 to generate long-term growth. For example:  

o  

We will refocus our investments on disease areas of major
 unmet medical needs and advance new technologies. We expect to become an
 industry leader in biotherapeutics and build best-in-class vaccine
 capabilities.  

o  

During 2007, we continued to introduce new products, including
 Selzentry in the U.S. and, in Europe, Celsentri (the trade name for Selzentry
 in Europe), and Ecalta (the trade name for Eraxis in Europe).  

o  

During 2007, we or our development partners submitted two
 new drug applications (NDAs) to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
 for Fablyn (lasofoxifene) and Spiriva Respimat.  

o  

Several key medicines received approval for new
 indications in 2007, including approvals in the U.S. for Lyrica for the
 treatment of fibromyalgia, Lipitor for secondary prevention of cardiovascular
 events in patients with established coronary heart disease and Fragmin for
 the prevention of blood clots in patients with cancer. In the E.U., medicines
 that received approval for new indications in 2007 were Celebrex, for the
 treatment of ankylosing spondylitis, and Sutent, for metastatic renal cell
 carcinoma (mRCC) as a first-line treatment and for gastrointestinal stromal
 tumors (GIST) as a second-line treatment.  

o  

We continue to conduct research on a scale that can help
 redefine medical practice. Our R D pipeline includes 213 projects in
 development: 151 new molecular entities and 62 product-line extensions. They
 span multiple therapeutic areas, and we are leveraging our status as the
 industry s partner of choice to expand our licensing operations. In addition,
 we have more than 320 projects in discovery research. During 2007, 34 new
 compounds were advanced from discovery research into preclinical development,
 22 preclinical development candidates progressed into Phase 1 human testing
 and 16 Phase 1 clinical development candidates advanced into Phase 2
 proof-of-concept trials and safety studies.  

We will continue to focus on reducing attrition as a key
 component of our R D productivity improvement effort. For several years,
 we have been revising the quality hurdles for candidates entering
 development, as well as throughout the development process. As the quality of
 candidates has improved, the development attrition rate has begun to fall. Two new molecular entities and multiple new indication programs for in-line products advanced into Phase 3 development during 2007. We expect a significant number of new molecular entities and new indication programs
to advance to Phase 3 by the end of 2009. With the progress we are seeing in our pipeline -- as well as our efforts in reducing our attrition rate   we are also continuing to target having a steady stream of new medicines from our internal
R D, four a year, starting in 2011.   

2007 Financial Report  |  5    

Financial Review 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

While a significant portion of R D is done internally,
 we will continue to seek to expand our pipeline by entering into agreements
 with other companies to develop, license or acquire promising compounds,
 technologies or capabilities. Co-development, alliance and license agreements
 and acquisitions allow us to capitalize on these compounds to expand our
 pipeline of potential future products.   

o   
 
  Due to our strength in marketing and our global reach, we
 are able to attract other organizations that may have promising compounds and
 that can benefit from our strength and skills. We have more than 400
 alliances across the entire spectrum of the discovery, development and
 commercialization process.   

o   
 
  In the second quarter of 2007, we entered into a
 collaboration agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS) to further
 develop and commercialize apixaban, an oral anticoagulant compound discovered
 by BMS, and in a separate agreement, we are also collaborating with BMS on
 the research, development and commercialization of DGAT-1 inhibitors. (See
 further discussion in the  Our Strategic Initiatives Strategy and Recent
 Transactions: Acquisitions, Licensing and Collaborations  section of this
 Financial Review.)   

o   
 
  We are building a major presence in biologics by
 recognizing that our core strength with small molecules must be complemented
 by large molecules, as they involve some of the most promising R D
 technology and cutting-edge science in medical research, as well as
 integrating our investments, R D and existing internal capabilities with
 disciplined business development. In 2007, we acquired BioRexis, a privately
 held biopharmaceutical company with a number of diabetes candidates and a
 novel technology platform for developing new protein drug candidates. In
 2006, we acquired Rinat, a biologics company with several new
 central-nervous-system product candidates. In 2005, the acquisition of
 Vicuron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Vicuron) built on Pfizer s extensive experience
 in anti-infectives and demonstrates our commitment to strengthen and broaden
 our pharmaceutical business through strategic product acquisitions.   

o   
 
  The acquisition of PowderMed in 2006 is enabling us to
 explore vaccines across various therapeutic areas using the acquired vaccine
 technology and delivery device. (See further discussion in the  Our Strategic Initiatives Strategy and
 Recent Transactions: Acquisitions, Licensing and Collaborations  section of
 this Financial Review.)   

o  
    Our goal is to launch two new externally-sourced
      products each year beginning in 2010.  

Changing Business
Environment    

  With the business environment
changing rapidly, as described above, we recognize that we must also
fundamentally change the way we run our company to meet those challenges.  

  As a result, we will:  

Continue to streamline our company to reduce bureaucracy
 and enable us to move quickly.  

Continue to restructure our cost base to drive
 efficiencies and enable greater agility and operating flexibility.  

Continue to simplify our R D organization and improve
 productivity by consolidating each of the research teams focused on any given
 therapeutic area to one of four major sites.  

Revitalize our internal R D approach by focusing our
 efforts to improve productivity and give discovery and development teams more
 flexibility and clearer goals, as well as committing considerable resources
 to promising therapeutic areas, including oncology, diabetes and neurological
 disorders, among others. Although we decided to exit Exubera, we remain
 committed to investing resources in the development of new and innovative
 medicines to manage diabetes.  

Focus our business development by thoroughly assessing
 every therapeutic area, looking at gaps we have identified and accelerating
 programs we already have. We are also developing opportunistic strategies
 concerning the best products, product candidates and technologies.  

Drive innovation in product life-cycle management by taking
 a broader look at our business model and examining it from all angles. We
 believe there are opportunities to better manage our products  growth and
 development throughout their entire time on the market and bring innovation
 to our  go to market  promotional and commercial strategies. We plan to
 develop ways to further enhance the value of mature products, as well as
 those close to losing their exclusivity, and to create product-line
 extensions where feasible. In connection with the production of these
 products, we are pursuing new ways to accelerate our high-quality, low-cost
 manufacturing initiatives.  

Seek complementary opportunities in products and
 technologies that have the potential to leverage our capabilities and are
 aligned with our goals of improving health.  

Continue to address the wide array of patient populations
 through our innovative access and affordability programs.  

See further discussion in the  Our Cost-Reduction
Initiatives  section of this Financial Review.  

  In addition to the above challenges and opportunities, we
believe that there are other opportunities for revenue generation for our
products, including:  

6  |  2007 Financial Report   

Financial Review 
   Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  

Current demographics of developed countries indicate that
 people are living longer and, therefore, have a growing demand for
 high-quality healthcare, and the most effective medicines.  

Revising our sales model, where appropriate, to better
 engage physicians and customers.  

The large number of patients within our various
 therapeutic categories that are untreated. For example, of the tens of
 millions of Americans who need medical therapy for high cholesterol, we
 estimate only about one-fourth are actually receiving treatment.  

Refocusing the debate on health policy to address the cost
 of disease that remains untreated and the benefits of investing in prevention
 and wellness to not only improve health, but save money.  

Developing medicines that meet medical need and that
 patients will take; that physicians will prescribe; that customers will pay
 for; and that add the most value for Pfizer.  

Stepping up our focus and investments in emerging markets
 by developing strategies in areas, especially Eastern Europe and Asia, where
 changing demographics and economics will drive growing demand for
 high-quality healthcare and offer the best potential for our products.  

Worldwide emphasis on the need to find solutions to
 difficult problems in healthcare systems.  

Our
 Cost-Reduction Initiatives   

During 2007, 2006 and 2005, we made significant progress
 with our cost-reduction initiatives, which were designed to increase
 efficiency and streamline decision-making across the company. These
 initiatives were launched in early 2005 and broadened in October 2006.  

On January 22, 2007, we announced additional plans to
 change the way we run our business to meet the challenges of a changing
 business environment and take advantage of the diverse opportunities in the
 marketplace. We are generating net cost reductions through site
 rationalization in R D and manufacturing, streamlining organizational
 structures, sales force and staff function reductions, and increased
 outsourcing and procurement savings. Our cost-reduction initiatives will
 result in the elimination of about 10,000 positions, or about 10% of our
 total worldwide workforce by the end of 2008. These and other actions will
 allow us to reduce costs in support services and facilities, and to redeploy
 a portion of the hundreds of millions of dollars saved into the discovery and
 development work of our scientists. These and other initiatives are discussed
 below.  

Net of various cost increases and investments during 2007,
 we achieved, on a constant currency basis (the actual foreign exchange rates
 in effect in 2006), a reduction of about $560 million in the  Selling, informational and administrative expenses  (SI A) pre-tax component of Adjusted
 income compared to 2006. By the end of 2008, we expect to achieve a net
 reduction of the pre-tax total expense component of Adjusted income of at
 least $1.5 billion to $2.0 billion, compared to 2006 on a constant currency
 basis (the actual foreign exchange rates in effect in 2006). (For an
 understanding of Adjusted income, see the  Adjusted Income  section of this
 Financial Review.)   

Projects in various stages of implementation include:  

Pfizer Global Research and Development (PGRD)   

Creating a More Agile and Productive
 Organization   To increase efficiency and
 effectiveness in bringing new therapies to patients-in-need, in January 2007,
 PGRD announced a number of actions to transform the research division. Many
 of the actions have been completed. We have exited two discovery therapeutic
 areas (Gastrointestinal   Hepatology and Dermatology), though we continue
 to develop compounds in those areas that are already in the pipeline. We have
 consolidated each research therapeutic area into a single site. In addition,
 of six sites that were identified for closure, two (Mumbai, India and
 Plymouth Township, Michigan) have been closed. Operations have been scaled
 back significantly in the other four sites (Ann Arbor and Kalamazoo,
 Michigan; Nagoya, Japan; and Amboise, France). The timing of final closure of
 the remaining sites is subject to business needs and, in the case of Nagoya
 and Amboise, to consultation with works councils and local labor law. As of
 December 31, 2007, all portfolio project transfers were completed with
 minimal progress development interruption and are now in their new sites.
 This reorganization has resulted in smaller, more agile research units
 designed to drive the growth of our bigger pipeline, while maintaining costs,
 and generating more products.   

Standardization of Practices   Standardization
 of practices across PGRD is driving costs down and increasing efficiencies in
 our research facilities, resulting in significant savings. Centers of
 emphasis have been built to take advantage of special skill sets, reduce
 waste and enhance asset utilization. We substantially reduced the number of
 pilot plants that manufacture the active ingredients for our clinical
 supplies, making more efficient use of the capacity retained. Clinical supply
 depots across the globe are being realigned with future needs. For example,
 across Europe and Canada 26 out of 37 depots have been identified for
 rationalization, with 24 closures completed through December 31, 2007.   

Enhanced Clinical Trial Design   To reduce
 the frequency and cost of clinical trial failures, a common problem across
 the industry, a key objective for PGRD has been to improve our clinical trial
 design process. For this reason, PGRD has standardized and broadly applied
 advanced improvements in quantitative techniques. For example,
 pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic modeling and computer-based clinical trial
 simulation, along with use of leading-edge statistical techniques, including
 adaptive learning and confirming approaches, are being used and we have begun
 to transform the way clinical trials are designed. Benefits achieved to date
 from this initiative include improvements in positive predictive capacity,
 efficiency, risk management and knowledge management. Once fully implemented,
 this Enhanced Clinical Trial Design initiative is expected to yield
 significant savings and enhance research productivity.   

Two new molecular entities and multiple new indication
 programs for in-line products advanced into Phase 3 development during 2007. We expect a significant number of new molecular entities and new indication programs to advance to Phase 3 by the end of 2009. We
 intend to increase resources dedicated to biotherapeutics, with the
 objectives of launching one product per year within 10 years, strengthening
 our antibody platform and building our vaccine business. In addition, we will
 enhance our  

2007 Financial
Report  |  7   

Financial Review 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies    

capability to identify the right targets and pathways by
 harnessing new biologic techniques to allow identification and the pursuit of
 the most relevant pathways. We expect to fund a number of these new
 investments with savings from reduced spending on support staff and
 facilities costs.  

Pfizer Global Manufacturing (PGM)   

Plant Network Optimization   To ensure
 that our manufacturing facilities are aligned with current and future product
 needs, we are continuing to optimize Pfizer s network of plants. We have
 focused on innovation and delivering value through a simplified supply
 network. Since 2005, 30 sites have been identified for rationalization. In
 addition, there have been extensive consolidations and realignments of
 operations resulting in streamlined operations and staff reductions.   

We have reduced our network of plants from 93 four years ago
 to 57 today, which also reflects the acquisition of seven plants and the
 sites sold in 2006 as part of our Consumer Healthcare business. By the end of
 2009, we plan to reduce our network of manufacturing plants around the world
 to 45. The cumulative impact will be a more focused, streamlined and
 competitive manufacturing operation, with less than 50% of our plants and a
 reduction of 35% of our manufacturing employees compared to 2003. Further, we
 currently outsource the manufacture of approximately 17% of our products on a
 cost basis and plan to increase this substantially by 2010 and beyond.  

Worldwide Pharmaceutical Operations (WPO)   

Field Force Realignment   To improve
 our effectiveness in and responsiveness to the business environment, we have
 realigned our European marketing teams and implemented productivity
 initiatives for our field force in Japan. We completed the U.S.
 reorganization in December 2006, which included a 20% reduction in our U.S.
 field force. The restructured U.S. field force was operational starting in
 April 2007 and productivity per sales representative has returned to the
 levels before the reorganization, retaining our competitiveness and share of
 voice. Globally, we have reduced our field force by approximately 11%.
 Additional savings are being generated from de-layering, eliminating
 duplicative work and strategically realigning various functions.   

We are in the process of transforming our field force
 operations in Europe to being more customer-centric by reorganizing and shifting
 resources. As of December 31, 2007, we had reduced our field force in Europe
 by approximately 17% and expect total reductions of 20% by the end of 2008,
 subject to consultation with works councils and local labor law, while
 allowing us to maintain a competitive voice for our medicines and a strong
 organization going forward.  

Information Technology   

Reductions in Application Software   To achieve
 cost savings, we have pursued significant reductions in application software
 and data centers, as well as rationalization of service providers, while
 enhancing our ability to invest in innovative technology opportunities to
 further propel our growth. By consolidating 11 third-party providers and
 reducing labor costs, we expect to generate considerable annual savings and
 improve service quality.   

Finance   

Further Capitalizing on Shared Service
 Centers   To achieve cost savings, we have reduced operating
 costs and improved service levels by standardizing, regionalizing and/or
 outsourcing a wide array of transactional accounting activities.   

Global Sourcing   

Leveraging Purchasing Power   To achieve
 cost savings on purchased goods and services, we have focused on
 rationalizing suppliers, leveraging our substantial purchases of goods and
 services and improving demand management to optimize levels of outside
 services needed and strategic sourcing from lower-cost sources. For example,
 savings from demand management are being derived in part from reductions in
 travel, entertainment, consulting and other external service expenses.
 Facilities savings are being found in site rationalization, energy
 conservation and renegotiated service contracts.   

Our Strategic
Initiatives Strategy and Recent Transactions    

Acquisitions, Licensing and
 Collaborations   

We are committed to capitalizing on new growth
 opportunities by advancing our own new-product pipeline and maximizing the
 value of our in-line products, as well as through opportunistic licensing,
 co-promotion agreements and acquisitions. Our business development strategy
 targets a number of growth opportunities, including biologics, oncology,
 diabetes, Alzheimer s disease, cardiovascular disease, vaccines and other
 products and services that seek to provide valuable healthcare solutions.
 Some of our most significant business-development transactions since 2005 are
 described below.  

In December 2007, we entered into a license agreement with
 Scil Technology Gmbh (Scil) for worldwide collaboration on Scil cartilage
 specific growth factor CD-RAP. Under this agreement, Pfizer obtained a
 worldwide exclusive license to develop and commercialize CD-RAP. In 2007, we
 expensed a payment of $8 million, which was included in  Research and development expenses.  We
 may also make additional payments of up to $242 million based upon
 development and regulatory milestones.  

In December 2007, we entered into a license and
 collaboration agreement with Adolor Corporation (Adolor) to develop and
 commercialize ADL5859 and ADL577, proprietary delta opioid receptor agonist
 compounds for the treatment of pain. In 2007, we expensed a payment of $32
 million, which was included in  Research
 and development expenses.  We may also make additional payments of
 up to $233 million to Adolor, based on development and regulatory milestones.  

In December 2007, we entered into a research collaboration
 and license agreement with Taisho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Taisho) to
 acquire worldwide rights outside of Japan for TS-032, a metabolic glutamate
 receptor agonist that may offer a new treatment option for central nervous
 system disorders, and is currently in pre-clinical development for the
 treatment of schizophrenia. In 2007, we expensed a payment of $22 million,
 which was included in  Research and
 development expenses.  We may also make additional payments of up
 to $265 million to Taisho based upon development and regulatory milestones.  

8  |  2007 Financial Report   

Financial Review 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

In the second quarter of 2007, we entered into a collaboration
 agreement with BMS to further develop and commercialize apixaban, an oral
 anticoagulant compound discovered by BMS, that is being studied for the
 prevention and treatment of a broad range of venous and arterial thrombotic
 conditions. We made an initial payment to BMS of $250 million and additional
 payments to BMS related to product development efforts, which are included in
  Research and development expenses  in
 2007. We may also make additional payments of up to $750 million to BMS,
 based on development and regulatory milestones. In a separate agreement, we
 are also collaborating with BMS on the research, development and
 commercialization of DGAT-1 inhibitors, a class of compounds that modify
 lipid metabolism.  

In April 2007, we agreed with OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
 (OSI) to terminate a 2002 collaboration agreement to co-promote Macugen, for
 the treatment of age-related macular degeneration (AMD), in the U.S. We also
 agreed to amend and restate a 2002 license agreement for Macugen, and to
 return to OSI all rights to develop and commercialize Macugen in the U.S. In
 return, OSI granted us an exclusive right to develop and commercialize
 Macugen in the rest of the world.  

In the first quarter of 2007, we acquired BioRexis, a
 privately held biopharmaceutical company with a number of diabetes candidates
 and a novel technology platform for developing new protein drug candidates,
 and Embrex, an animal health company that possesses a unique vaccine delivery
 system known as Inovoject that improves consistency and reliability by
 inoculating chicks while they are still inside the egg. In connection with
 these and other smaller acquisitions, we recorded $283 million in  Acquisition-related in-process research and
 development charges.   

In December 2006, we entered into a collaboration
 agreement with Kosan Biosciences Inc. (Kosan) to develop a gastrointestinal
 disease treatment. In 2006, we expensed a payment of $12 million, which was
 included in  Research and development
 expenses.  Additional milestone payments of up to approximately
 $238 million may be made to Kosan based upon the successful development and
 commercialization of a product.  

In September 2006, we entered into a license agreement
 with Quark Biotech Inc. for exclusive worldwide rights to a compound for the
 treatment of neovascular (wet) AMD.  

In September 2006, we entered into a license and
 collaboration agreement with TransTech Pharma Inc. (TransTech) to develop and
 commercialize small- and large-molecule compounds for treatment of Alzheimer s
 disease and diabetic neuropathy. Under the terms of the agreement, Pfizer
 received exclusive worldwide rights to TransTech s portfolio of compounds. In
 2006, we expensed a payment of $101 million, which was included in  Research and
 development expenses.    Additional significant milestone
 payments may be made to TransTech based upon the successful development and
 commercialization of a product.   

In June 2006, we entered into a license agreement with
 Bayer Pharmaceuticals Corporation to acquire exclusive worldwide rights to
 DGAT-1 inhibitors. The lead compound in the class, BAY 74-4113, is a
 potential treatment for obesity, type 2 diabetes and other related disorders.  

In June 2006, we acquired the worldwide rights to
 fesoterodine, a drug candidate for treating overactive bladder which was
 approved in the E.U. in April 2007 and is under regulatory review in the
 U.S., from Schwarz Pharma AG.  

In March 2006, we entered into research collaborations
 with NicOX SA in ophthalmic disorders and NOXXON Pharma AG in obesity.  

In February 2006, we completed the acquisition of the
 sanofi-aventis worldwide rights, including patent rights and production
 technology, to manufacture and sell Exubera, an inhaled form of insulin, and
 the insulin-production business and facilities located in Frankfurt, Germany,
 previously jointly owned by Pfizer and sanofi-aventis, for approximately $1.4
 billion in cash (including transaction costs). Substantially all assets
 recorded in connection with this acquisition have now been written off. See
 the  Our 2007 Performance: Decision to Exit Exubera  section of this
 Financial Review. Prior to the acquisition, in connection with our
 collaboration agreement with sanofi-aventis, we recorded a research and
 development milestone due to us from sanofi-aventis of approximately $118
 million ($71 million, after tax) in 2006 in  Research
 and development expenses  upon the approval of Exubera in January
 2006 by the FDA.  

In December 2006, we completed the acquisition of
 PowderMed, a U.K. company which specializes in the emerging science of
 DNA-based vaccines for the treatment of influenza and chronic viral diseases,
 and in May 2006, we completed the acquisition of Rinat, a biologics company
 with several new central-nervous-system product candidates. In 2006, the
 aggregate cost of these and other smaller acquisitions was approximately $880
 million (including transaction costs). In connection with these transactions,
 we recorded $835 million in  Acquisition-related
 in-process research and development charges.   

In November 2005, we entered into a research collaboration
 and license agreement with Incyte Corporation (Incyte) and received exclusive
 worldwide rights to Incyte s portfolio of CCR2 antagonist compounds for
 potential use in a broad range of diseases. In 2006, we expensed a payment of
 $40 million, which was included in  Research
 and development expenses.  Additional milestone payments of up to
 $738 million could potentially be made to Incyte based upon the successful
 development and commercialization of products in multiple indications.  

In September 2005, we completed the acquisition of all of
 the outstanding shares of Vicuron, a biopharmaceutical company focused on the
 development of novel anti-infectives, for approximately $1.9 billion in cash
 (including transaction costs). In connection with the acquisition, as part of
 our final purchase price allocation, we recorded $1.4 billion in  Acquisition-related in-process research and
 development charges , and $243 million of  Goodwill , which has
 been allocated to our Pharmaceutical segment.  

In April 2005, we completed the acquisition of Idun
 Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Idun), a biopharmaceutical company focused on the
 discovery and development of therapies to control apoptosis, and in August
 2005, we completed the acquisition of Bioren Inc. (Bioren), which focuses on
 technology for optimizing antibodies. In 2005, the aggregate cost of these
 and other smaller acquisitions was approximately $340 million  

2007 Financial
Report  |  9   

Financial Review 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

in cash (including transaction costs). In connection with
 these transactions, we recorded $262 million in  Acquisition-related in-process research and development charges .  

The following acquisitions, completed in 2008, are not
 reflected in our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2007:  

In February 2008, we signed an agreement to acquire all
 issued and outstanding shares of Encysive Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Encysive), a
 biopharmaceutical company with a product (Thelin) for the treatment of
 pulmonary arterial hypertension, which is commercially available in much of
 the E.U. and is approved in other markets, as well as other pipeline
 candidates. Upon completion of the tender offer, representing an equity value
 of approximately $195 million, we will also assume Encysive s change of
 control repurchase obligations under its 2.5% convertible notes.  

In January 2008, we completed the acquisition
    of all the outstanding shares of Coley Pharmaceutical Group, Inc. (Coley),
    a biopharmaceutical company specializing in vaccines and drug candidates
 designed to fight cancers, allergy and asthma disorders, and autoimmune
 diseases, for approximately $230 million. In March 2005, we entered into a
 license agreement with Coley for a toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9) agonist for
 the potential treatment, control and prevention of cancer. In 2005, we
 expensed a payment of $50 million, which was included in  Research and development
 expenses , and
 purchased $10 million of Coley s common stock. In June 2007, we announced
 the discontinuation of the development program associated with this compound.  

In January 2008, we also acquired CovX, a privately-held
 biotherapeutics company specializing in preclinical oncology and metabolic
 research and the developer of a biotherapeutics technology platform that we
 expect will enhance our biologic portfolio.  

Dispositions   

We evaluate our businesses and product lines periodically
 for strategic fit within our operations. Since January 1, 2005, we have sold
 the following businesses:  

In the fourth quarter of 2006, we sold our Consumer
 Healthcare business for $16.6 billion, and recorded a gain of approximately
 $10.2 billion ($7.9 billion, net of tax) in  Gains
 on sales of discontinued operations net of tax  in the consolidated
 statement of income for 2006. In 2007, we recorded a loss of approximately
 $70 million, after-tax, primarily related to the resolution of contingencies,
 such as purchase price adjustments and product warranty obligations, as well
 as pension settlements. This business was composed of:  

o  

substantially all of our former Consumer Healthcare
 segment;  

o  

other associated amounts, such as purchase-accounting
 impacts, acquisition-related costs and restructuring and implementation costs
 related to our cost-reduction initiatives that were previously reported in
 the Corporate/Other segment; and  

o  

certain manufacturing facility assets and liabilities,
 which were previously part of our Pharmaceutical or Corporate/ Other segment
 but were included in the sale of the Consumer Healthcare business. The net
 impact to the Pharmaceutical segment was not significant.  

The results of this business are included in  Income from discontinued operations net of tax  for
 all periods presented. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 3. Discontinued Operations.   

We continued during 2007, and will continue for a period
 of time, to generate cash flows and to report income statement activity in
 continuing operations that are associated with our former Consumer Healthcare
 business. The activities that give rise to these impacts are transitional in
 nature and generally result from agreements that ensure and facilitate the
 orderly transfer of business operations to the new owner. Included in
 continuing operations for 2007 were the following amounts associated with
 these transition service agreements that will no longer occur after the full
 transfer of activities to the new owner:  Revenues
  of $219 million;  Cost of sales  of
 $194 million;  Selling, informational and
 administrative expenses  of $15 million; and  Other (income)/deductions net  of $16
 million in income.  

In the third quarter of 2005, we sold the last of three
 European generic pharmaceutical businesses, which we had included in our
 Pharmaceutical segment, for 4.7 million euro (approximately $5.6 million).
 This business became a part of Pfizer in April 2003 in connection with our
 acquisition of Pharmacia. We recorded a loss of $3 million ($2 million, net
 of tax) in  Gains on sales of discontinued
 operations net of tax  in the consolidated statement of income for
 2005.  

In the first quarter of 2005, we sold the second of three
 European generic pharmaceutical businesses, which we had included in our
 Pharmaceutical segment, for 70 million euro (approximately $93 million). This
 business became a part of Pfizer in April 2003 in connection with our
 acquisition of Pharmacia. We recorded a gain of $57 million ($36 million, net
 of tax) in  Gains on sales of discontinued
 operations net of tax  in the consolidated statement of income for
 2005. In addition, we recorded an impairment charge of $9 million ($6
 million, net of tax) related to the third European generic business in  Income from discontinued operations net of tax  in
 the consolidated statement of income for 2005.  

Our Expectations
 for 2008   

While our revenues and income will continue to be tempered
 in the near term due to patent expirations and other factors, we will
 continue to make the investments necessary to sustain long-term growth. We
 remain confident that Pfizer has the organizational strength and resilience,
 as well as the financial depth and flexibility, to succeed in the long term.
 However, no assurance can be given that the industry-wide factors described
 above under  Our Operating Environment and Response to Key Opportunities and
 Challenges  or other significant factors will not have a material adverse
 effect on our business and financial results.  

Our 2008 guidance reflects the projected impact of the
 loss of exclusivity in the U.S. of Norvasc (March 2007) and Zyrtec/Zyrtec D
 (January 2008), and the expiration of the U.S. basic patent for Camptosar
 (February 2008).  

At current exchange rates, we forecast 2008 revenues of
 $47.0 billion to $49.0 billion, reported diluted earnings per common share
 (EPS) of $1.78 to $1.93, Adjusted diluted EPS of $2.35 to $2.45, and cash
 flow from operations of $17 billion to $18 billion.  

10  |  2007 Financial Report   

Financial Review 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

In addition, on a constant currency
basis, we expect to achieve a net reduction of the pre-tax total expense
component of Adjusted income of at least $1.5 billion to $2.0 billion, compared
to 2006. (For an understanding of Adjusted income, see the  Adjusted Income 
section of this Financial Review.)  

  As referenced in this section: (i)
 current exchange rates  is defined as rates approximating foreign currency
spot rates in January 2008 and (ii)  constant currency basis  is defined as the
actual foreign currency exchange rates in effect during 2006.  

  Given these and other factors, a
reconciliation, at current exchange rates and reflecting management s current
assessment, of 2008 Adjusted income and Adjusted diluted EPS guidance to 2008
reported Net income and reported diluted EPS guidance, follows:  

(a)    

Excludes the effects of major
 business-development transactions not completed as of December 31, 2007.  

(b)    

For an understanding of Adjusted
 income, see the  Adjusted Income  section of this Financial Review.  

Our 2008 forecasted financial
performance guidance is subject to a number of factors and uncertainties as
described in the  Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect
Future Results  section of this Financial Review.  

   Accounting Policies   

  We consider the following accounting
policies important in understanding our operating results and financial
condition. For additional accounting policies, see Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements  Note 1. Significant
Accounting Policies.   

   Estimates and Assumptions   

  In preparing the consolidated
financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions that affect
reported amounts and disclosures. For example, estimates are used when
accounting for deductions from revenues (such as rebates, discounts, incentives
and product returns), depreciation, amortization, employee benefits,
contingencies and asset and liability valuations. Our estimates are often based
on complex judgments, probabilities and assumptions that we believe to be
reasonable, but that are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Assumptions
may later prove to be incomplete or inaccurate, or unanticipated events and
circumstances may occur that might cause us to change those estimates or
assumptions. It is also possible that other professionals, applying reasonable
judgment to the same facts and circumstances, could develop and support a range
of alternative estimated amounts. We are also subject to other risks and
uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ from estimated amounts,
such as changes in the healthcare environment, competition, foreign exchange,
litigation, legislation and regulations. These and other risks and
uncertainties are discussed throughout this Financial Review, particularly in
the section  Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future
Results.   

Contingencies   

  We and certain of our subsidiaries
are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial,
securities, environmental and tax litigations and claims; government
investigations; and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the
ordinary course of our business. Except for income tax contingencies, we record
accruals for contingencies to the extent that we conclude their occurrence is
probable and the related damages are estimable, and we record anticipated
recoveries under existing insurance contracts when assured of recovery. For tax
matters, beginning in 2007 upon the adoption of a new accounting standard, we
record accruals for income tax contingencies to the extent that we conclude
that a tax position is not sustainable under a  more likely than not  standard
and we record our estimate of the potential tax benefits in one tax
jurisdiction that could result from the payment of income taxes in another tax
jurisdiction when we conclude that the potential recovery is more likely than
not. (See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 1D. Significant Accounting Policies: New Accounting Standards
 and  Note 8E. Taxes on Income: Tax Contingencies. )
We consider many factors in making these assessments. Because litigation and
other contingencies are inherently unpredictable and excessive verdicts do
occur, these assessments can involve a series of complex judgments about future
events and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions (see Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 1B. Significant Accounting Policies: Estimates and Assumptions ).  

   Acquisitions   
  Our consolidated financial statements
and results of operations reflect an acquired business after the completion of
the acquisition and are not restated. We account for acquired businesses using
the purchase method of accounting, which requires that the assets acquired and
liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective
fair values. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of
the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Amounts allocated to acquired
IPR D are expensed at the date of acquisition. When we acquire net assets
that do not constitute a business under generally accepted accounting
principles in the U.S. (U.S. GAAP), no goodwill is recognized.  
  The judgments made in determining the
estimated fair value assigned to each class of assets acquired and liabilities
assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially impact our results of
operations.  
  There are several methods that can be
used to determine the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
For intangible assets, including IPR D, we typically use the  income
method.  This method starts with our forecast of all of the expected future net
cash flows. These cash flows are then adjusted to present value by applying an
appropriate discount rate that reflects the risk factors associated with the
cash flow streams. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions
inherent in the income method or other methods include: the amount and timing
of projected future cash flows; the amount and timing of projected costs to
develop the IPR D into commercially viable products; the discount rate
selected to measure the risks inherent in the future cash flows; and the
assessment of the asset s life cycle and the competitive trends impacting the
asset, including consideration  

2007 Financial Report  |  11   

Financial Review 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies    

of any technical, legal, regulatory,
or economic barriers to entry, as well as expected changes in standards of
practice for indications addressed by the asset.  

  Determining the useful life of an
intangible asset also requires judgment, as different types of intangible
assets will have different useful lives and certain assets may even be
considered to have indefinite useful lives. For example, the useful life of the
right associated with a pharmaceutical product s exclusive patent will be
finite and will result in amortization expense being recorded in our results of
operations over a determinable period. However, the useful life associated with
a brand that has no patent protection but that retains, and is expected to
retain, a distinct market identity could be considered to be indefinite and the
asset would not be amortized.  

   Revenues   

   Revenue Recognition   We record
revenues from product sales when the goods are shipped and title passes to the
customer. At the time of sale, we also record estimates for a variety of sales
deductions, such as rebates, discounts and incentives, and product returns.
When we cannot reasonably estimate the amount of future product returns, we
record revenue when the risk of product return has been substantially
eliminated.   

   Deductions from
Revenues   Our gross product sales are subject to a variety of
deductions, primarily representing rebates and discounts to government
agencies, wholesalers and managed care organizations with respect to our
pharmaceutical products. These deductions represent estimates of the related
obligations and, as such, judgment is required when estimating the impact of
these sales deductions on gross sales for a reporting period.   

  Specifically:  

In the U.S., we record provisions for pharmaceutical
 Medicaid, Medicare and contract rebates based upon our actual experience
 ratio of rebates paid and actual prescriptions written during prior quarters.
 We apply the experience ratio to the respective period s sales to determine
 the rebate accrual and related expense. This experience ratio is evaluated
 regularly to ensure that the historical trends are as current as practicable.
 As appropriate, we will adjust the ratio to better match our current
 experience or our expected future experience. In assessing this ratio, we
 consider current contract terms, such as changes in formulary status and
 discount rates. If our ratio is not indicative of future experience, our
 results could be materially affected.  

Outside the U.S., the majority of our pharmaceutical
 rebates are contractual or legislatively mandated, and our estimates are
 based on actual invoiced sales within each period; both of these elements
 help to reduce the risk of variations in the estimation process. Some
 European countries base their rebates on the government s unbudgeted
 pharmaceutical spending and we use an estimated allocation factor against our
 actual invoiced sales to project the expected level of reimbursement. We
 obtain third-party information that helps us monitor the adequacy of these
 accruals. If our estimates are not indicative of actual unbudgeted spending,
 our results could be materially affected.  

Provisions for pharmaceutical chargebacks (primarily
 reimbursements to wholesalers for honoring contracted prices to third
 parties) closely approximate actual as we settle these deductions generally
 within two to three weeks of incurring the liability.  

We record sales incentives as a reduction of revenues at
 the time the related revenues are recorded or when the incentive is offered,
 whichever is later. We estimate the cost of our sales incentives based on our
 historical experience with similar incentives programs.  

Historically, our adjustments to actual have not been
 material; on a quarterly basis, they generally have been less than 1.0% of
 Pharmaceutical net sales and can result in a net increase to income or a net
 decrease to income. The sensitivity of our estimates can vary by program,
 type of customer and geographic location. However, estimates associated with
 U.S. Medicaid and contract rebates are most at-risk for material adjustment
 because of the extensive time delay between the recording of the accrual and
 its ultimate settlement, an interval that can range up to one year. Because
 of this time lag, in any given quarter, our adjustments to actual can
 incorporate revisions of several prior quarters.  

Alliances   We have
 agreements to co-promote pharmaceutical products discovered by other
 companies. Alliance revenues are earned when our co-promotion partners ship
 the related product and title passes to their customer. These revenues are
 primarily based upon a percentage of our co-promotion partners  net sales.
 Expenses for selling and marketing these products are included in  Selling, informational and administrative
expenses.    

Long-Lived
 Assets   

We review all of our long-lived assets, including goodwill
 and other intangible assets, for impairment indicators at least annually and
 we perform detailed impairment testing for goodwill and indefinite-lived
 assets annually and for all other long-lived assets whenever impairment
 indicators are present. Examples of those events or circumstances that may be
 indicative of impairment include:  

A significant adverse change in legal factors or in the
 business climate that could affect the value of the asset. For example, a
 successful challenge of our patent rights likely would result in generic
 competition earlier than expected.  

A significant adverse change in the extent or manner in
 which an asset is used. For example, restrictions imposed by the FDA or other
 regulatory authorities could affect our ability to manufacture or sell a
 product.  

A projection or forecast that demonstrates losses
 associated with an asset. This could include, for example, a change in a
 government reimbursement program that results in an inability to sustain
 projected product revenues and profitability. This also could include the
 introduction of a competitor s product that results in a significant loss of
 market share or the lack of acceptance of a product by patients, physicians
 and payers.  

Our impairment review process is as follows:  

For finite-lived intangible assets, such as developed
 technology rights, whenever impairment indicators are present, we perform  

12     |      2007
Financial Report    

Financial Review 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies    

an in-depth review for impairment. We calculate the
 undiscounted value of the projected cash flows associated with the asset and
 compare this estimated amount to the carrying amount of the asset. If the
 carrying amount is found to be greater, we record an impairment loss for the
 excess of book value over the asset s fair value. Fair value is generally
 calculated by applying an appropriate discount rate to the undiscounted cash
 flow projections to arrive at net present value. In addition, in all cases of
 an impairment review, we reevaluate the remaining useful life of the asset
 and modify it, as appropriate.  

For indefinite-lived intangible assets, such as brands,
 each year and whenever impairment indicators are present, we calculate the
 fair value of the asset and record an impairment loss for the excess of book
 value over fair value, if any. Fair value is generally measured as the net
 present value of projected cash flows. In addition, in all cases of an
 impairment review, we reevaluate the remaining useful life of the asset and
 determine whether continuing to characterize the asset as indefinite-lived is
 appropriate.  

For  Goodwill ,
 which includes amounts related to our Pharmaceutical and Animal Health
 segments, each year and whenever impairment indicators are present, we
 calculate the fair value of each business segment and calculate the implied
 fair value of goodwill by subtracting the fair value of all the identifiable
 net assets other than goodwill and record an impairment loss for the excess
 of book value of goodwill over the implied fair value, if any.  

For other long-lived assets, such as property, plant and
 equipment, we apply procedures similar to those for finite-lived intangible
 assets to determine if an asset is impaired. Long-term investments and loans
 are subject to periodic impairment reviews whenever impairment indicators are
 present. For these assets, fair value is typically determined by observable
 market quotes or the expected present value of future cash flows. When
 necessary, we record charges for impairments of long-lived assets for the
 amount by which the fair value is less than the carrying value of these
 assets.  

For non-current deferred tax assets, we provide a
 valuation allowance when we believe that the assets are not probable of
 recovery based on an assessment of estimated future taxable income that
 incorporates ongoing, prudent, feasible tax-planning strategies.  

The value of intangible assets is
determined primarily using the  income method,  which starts with a forecast of
all the expected future net cash flows (see the  Our Strategic
Initiatives Strategy and Recent Transactions: Acquisitions, Licensing and
Collaborations,  section of this Financial Review). Accordingly, the potential
for impairment for these intangible assets may exist if actual revenues are
significantly less than those initially forecasted or actual expenses are
significantly more than those initially forecasted. Further, an asset s expected
useful life can increase estimation risk and, thus, impairment risk, as
longer-lived intangibles necessarily require longer-term forecasts it should be
noted that for some assets these time spans can range up to 20 years or longer.
Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the
intangible asset impairment   

estimation process include: the
amount and timing of projected future cash flows; the discount rate selected to
measure the risks inherent in the future cash flows; and the assessment of the
asset s life cycle and the competitive trends impacting the asset, including
consideration of any technical, legal, regulatory or economic barriers to
entry, as well as expected changes in standards of practice for indications
addressed by the asset.  

  The implied fair value of goodwill is
determined by first estimating the fair value of the associated business
segment. To estimate the fair value of each business segment, we generally use
the  market approach,  where we compare the segment to similar businesses or
 guideline  companies whose securities are actively traded in public markets or
which have recently been sold in a private transaction. We may also use the
 income approach,  where we use a discounted cash flow model in which cash
flows anticipated over several periods, plus a terminal value at the end of
that time horizon, are discounted to their present value using an appropriate
rate of return. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent
in the goodwill impairment estimation process using the  market approach 
include: the selection of appropriate guideline companies; the determination of
market value multiples for the guideline companies and the subsequent selection
of an appropriate market value multiple for the business segment based on a
comparison of the business segment to the guideline companies; and the
determination of applicable premiums and discounts based on any differences in
ownership percentages, ownership rights, business ownership forms, or marketability
between the segment and the guideline companies; and/or knowledge of the terms
and conditions of comparable transactions. When considering the  income
approach,  we include the required rate of return used in the discounted cash
flow method, which reflects capital market conditions and the specific risks
associated with the business segment. Other estimates inherent in the  income
approach  include long-term growth rates and cash flow forecasts for the
business segment.  

  A single estimate of fair value
results from a complex series of judgments about future events and
uncertainties and relies heavily on estimates and assumptions (see  Estimates
and Assumptions,  above). The judgments made in determining an estimate of fair
value can materially impact our results of operations.  

   Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans   

  We provide defined benefit pension
plans and defined contribution plans for the majority of our employees
worldwide. In the U.S., we have both qualified and supplemental (non-qualified)
defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans, as well as other
postretirement benefit plans, consisting primarily of healthcare and life
insurance for retirees. (See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 14. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and
Defined Contribution Plans. )  

  The accounting for benefit plans is
highly dependent on actuarial estimates, assumptions and calculations, which
result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties
(see  Estimates and Assumptions,  above). The assumptions and actuarial
estimates required to estimate the employee benefit obligations for the defined
benefit and postretirement plans,  

2007 Financial Report  |  13   

Financial Review 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies    

include discount rate; expected
salary increases; certain employee-related factors, such as turnover,
retirement age and mortality (life expectancy); expected return on assets; and
healthcare cost trend rates. Our assumptions reflect our historical experiences
and our best judgment regarding future expectations that have been deemed
reasonable by management. The judgments made in determining the costs of our
benefit plans can materially impact our results of operations.  

  The following table shows the
expected versus actual rate of return on plan assets and the discount rate used
to determine the benefit obligations for the U.S. qualified pension plans:  

Our assumption for the expected
long-term rate of return-on-assets in our U.S. pension plans, which impacts net
periodic benefit cost, was reduced from 9.0% for 2007 to 8.5% for 2008 to
reflect that our strategic asset target allocation was modified in late 2007 to
reduce the volatility of our plan funded status and the probability of future
contribution requirements. Our target allocations have been revised to increase
the debt securities allocation by 10% and to reduce the global equity
securities allocation by a corresponding amount. The assumption for the
expected return-on-assets for our U.S. and international plans reflects our
actual historical return experience and our long-term assessment of
forward-looking return expectations by asset classes, which is used to develop
a weighted-average expected return based on the implementation of our targeted
asset allocation in our respective plans. The expected return for our U.S.
plans and the majority of our international plans is applied to the fair market
value of plan assets at each year end. For our international plans that use a
market-related value of plan assets to calculate net periodic benefit cost,
shifting to the fair market value of plan assets would serve to decrease our
2008 international pension plans  pre-tax expense by approximately $27 million.
Holding all other assumptions constant, the effect of a 0.5 percentage-point
decline in the return-on-assets assumption is an increase in our 2008 U.S.
qualified pension plan pre-tax expense of approximately $38 million.  

  The discount rate used in calculating
our U.S. pension benefit obligations as of December 31, 2007, is 6.5%, which
represents a 0.6 percentage-point increase from our December 31, 2006 rate of
5.9%. The discount rate for our U.S. defined benefit and postretirement plans
is based on a yield curve constructed from a portfolio of high quality
corporate bonds rated AA or better for which the timing and amount of cash
flows approximate the estimated payouts of the plans. For our international
plans, the discount rates are set by benchmarking against investment grade
corporate bonds rated AA or better. Holding all other assumptions constant, the
effect of a 0.6 percentage-point increase in the discount rate assumption is a
decrease in our 2008 U.S. qualified pension plans  pre-tax expense of
approximately $77 million and a decrease in the U.S. qualified pension plans 
projected benefit obligations as of December 31, 2007, of approximately $696
million.  

Analysis of the Consolidated Statement of Income   

(a)    

Represents income from continuing
 operations before provision for taxes on income, minority interests,
 discontinued operations and cumulative effect of a change in accounting
 principles.  

*  

Calculation not meaningful.  

M+ Change greater than 1,000%.
  Percentages in this table and throughout the Financial Review may reflect
 rounding adjustments.  

Revenues   

  Total revenues were $48.4 billion in
2007, flat compared to 2006, primarily due to:  

an aggregate increase in revenues from Pharmaceutical
 products launched in the U.S. since 2005 of $2.0 billion and from many
 in-line products in 2007;  

the weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to many foreign
 currencies, especially the euro, U.K. pound and Canadian dollar, which
 increased revenues by $1.5 billion, or 3.0%, in 2007; and  

increased revenues in our Animal Health segment and other
 businesses of $706 million in 2007,  

14  |  2007
Financial Report   

Financial Review   

Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  

offset by:  

a decrease in revenues for Norvasc
    of $1.9 billion in 2007, primarily due to the loss of U.S. exclusivity in
    March 2007;  

a decrease in revenues for Zoloft, primarily due to the
 loss of U.S. exclusivity in August 2006, of $1.6 billion in 2007;  

a decrease in revenues for Lipitor in the U.S. of $654
 million in 2007, primarily due to competitive pressures from generics among
 other factors; and  

the one-time reversal of a sales deduction accrual in 2006
 related to a favorable development in a pricing dispute in the U.S. of about
 $170 million.  

In 2007, Lipitor, Norvasc (which lost U.S. exclusivity in
 March 2007) and Celebrex each delivered at least $2 billion in revenues,
 while Lyrica, Viagra, Detrol/Detrol LA, Xalatan/Xalacom and Zyrtec/Zyrtec D
 (which lost U.S. exclusivity in January 2008) each surpassed $1 billion.  

Total revenues were $48.4 billion in 2006, an increase of
 2% compared to 2005, primarily due to:  

the solid aggregate performance in our broad portfolio of
 patent-protected medicines; and  

the revenues from products launched over the previous
 three years,  

mostly offset by:  

the loss of U.S. exclusivity on Zithromax in November 2005
 and Zoloft in August 2006, which resulted in a collective decline in revenues
 of about $2.5 billion for these two products; and  

a decrease in revenues in 2006 by $279 million, or 0.6%,
 compared to 2005, due primarily to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar
 relative to many foreign currencies, especially the Japanese yen and the
 euro, partially offset by the weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to the
 Canadian dollar, the total of which accounted for about 96% of the foreign
 exchange impact in 2006.  

In 2006, Lipitor, Norvasc, Zoloft and Celebrex each
 delivered at least $2 billion in revenues, while Lyrica, Viagra,
 Detrol/Detrol LA, Xalatan/Xalacom and Zyrtec each surpassed $1 billion.  

Revenues exceeded $500 million in each of 12 countries
 outside the U.S. in 2007 and in each of 10 countries outside the U.S. in
 2006. The U.S. was the only country to contribute more than 10% of total
 revenues in each year.  

Our policy relating to the supply of pharmaceutical
 inventory at domestic wholesalers, and in major international markets, is to
 maintain stocking levels under one month on average and to keep monthly
 levels consistent from year to year based on patterns of utilization. We have
 historically been able to closely monitor these customer stocking levels by
 purchasing information from our customers directly, or by obtaining other
 third-party information. We believe our data sources to be directionally
 reliable, but cannot verify their accuracy. Further, as we do not control
 this third-party data, we cannot be assured of continuing access. Unusual
 buying patterns and utilization are promptly investigated.  

Rebates reduced revenues, as follows: 

The above rebates for 2007 were comparable to 2006 and
 reflect:  

changes in product mix, such as lower sales of Zoloft and
 Norvasc, both of which lost exclusivity in the U.S.,  

offset by:  

the impact of our contracting strategies with both
 government and non-government entities, among other factors.  

Performance-based contracts are with managed care
 customers, including health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit
 managers, who receive rebates based on the achievement of contracted
 performance terms for products. Rebates are product-specific and, therefore,
 for any given year are impacted by the mix of products sold. Chargebacks
 (primarily reimbursements to wholesalers for honoring contracted prices to
 third parties) reduced revenues by $1.6 billion in 2007, $1.4 billion in 2006
 and $1.3 billion in 2005. Chargebacks were impacted by the launch of certain
 generic products in 2007, 2006 and 2005 by our Greenstone subsidiary.  

Our accruals for Medicaid rebates, Medicare rebates,
 performance-based contract rebates and chargebacks totaled $1.2 billion as of
 December 31, 2007.  

Revenues by
 Business Segment   

We operate in the following business segments:  

Pharmaceutical   

The Pharmaceutical segment includes products that prevent
 and treat cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, central nervous system
 disorders, arthritis and pain, infectious and respiratory diseases,
 urogenital conditions, cancer, eye disease, endocrine disorders and
 allergies.  

Animal Health   

The Animal Health segment includes products that prevent
 and treat diseases in livestock and companion animals.  

Total Revenues by Business Segment   

2007 Financial Report   |    15   

Financial Review   

Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  

Change in
 Revenues by Segment and Geographic Area   

Worldwide revenues by segment and geographic area follow:  

Pharmaceutical
 Revenues   

Our pharmaceutical business is the largest in the world.
 Revenues from this segment contributed approximately 92% of our total
 revenues in 2007 and 93% of our total revenues in both 2006 and 2005. As of
 November 2007, seven of our pharmaceutical products were number one in their
 respective therapeutic categories based on revenues.  

We recorded product sales of more than $1 billion for each
 of eight products in 2007, each of nine products in 2006 and each of eight
 products in 2005. These products represented 58% of our Pharmaceutical
 revenues in 2007 and 64% of our Pharmaceutical revenues in both 2006 and
 2005.  

Worldwide Pharmaceutical revenues in 2007 decreased 1%
 compared to 2006, primarily due to:  

a decrease in revenues for Norvasc
    of $1.9 billion in 2007, primarily due to the loss of U.S. exclusivity in
    March 2007;  

a decrease in revenues for Zoloft of $1.6 billion in 2007,
 primarily due to the loss of U.S. exclusivity in August 2006;  

a decrease in revenues for Lipitor in the U.S. of $654
 million in 2007, primarily resulting from competitive pressures from
 generics, among other factors;  

a decrease in revenues for Zithromax of $187 million in
 2007, primarily due to the loss of U.S. exclusivity in November 2005; and  

the one-time reversal of a sales deduction accrual in 2006
 related to a favorable development in a pricing dispute in the U.S. of about
 $170 million,  

partially offset by:  

an aggregate increase in revenues from products launched
 in the U.S. since 2005 of $2.0 billion and from many in-line products in
 2007; and  

the weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to many foreign
 currencies, especially the euro, U.K. pound and Canadian dollar, which
 increased Pharmaceutical revenues by approximately $1.3 billion, or 3%, in
 2007.  

Geographically:  

in the U.S., Pharmaceutical revenues in 2007 decreased 12%
 compared to 2006, primarily due to the effect of the loss of exclusivity on
 Zoloft and Norvasc, and lower sales of Lipitor, partially offset by the
 aggregate increase in revenues from products launched since 2005 and from
 many in-line products; and  

in our international markets, Pharmaceutical revenues in
 2007 increased 11% compared to 2006, primarily due to the favorable impact of
 foreign exchange on international revenues of approximately $1.3 billion
 (6.4%) in 2007, revenues from products launched since 2005, as well as growth
 of certain in-line products.  

During 2007, international Pharmaceutical revenues grew to
 represent 51.5% of total Pharmaceutical revenues, compared to 45.6% in 2006.
 This increase has been fueled by higher volumes and the favorable impact of
 foreign exchange, despite pricing pressures in international markets.  

Effective January 1, 2008, July 13, 2007, January 1, 2007,
 and January 1, 2006, we increased the published prices for certain U.S.
 pharmaceutical products. These price increases had no material effect on wholesaler
 inventory levels in comparison to the prior year.  

16  |  2007 Financial Report   

Financial Review   

Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  

Revenues Major
 Pharmaceutical Products   

Revenue information for several of our major Pharmaceutical
 products follow:  

(a)    

Represents direct sales under
 license agreement with Eisai Co., Ltd.  

*  

Calculation not meaningful.  

Certain amounts and percentages
 may reflect rounding adjustments.  

2007 Financial Report  |  17   

Financial Review   

Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  

Pharmaceutical Selected
 Product Descriptions    

Lipitor  , for the
 treatment of elevated LDL-cholesterol levels in the blood, is the most widely
 used treatment for lowering cholesterol and the best-selling pharmaceutical
 product of any kind in the world, with $12.7 billion in worldwide revenues in
 2007, a decrease of 2% compared to 2006 despite the favorable impact of
 foreign exchange, which increased revenues by $360 million, or 3%. In the
 U.S., revenues of $7.2 billion in 2007 declined 8% compared to 2006.
 Internationally, Lipitor revenues in 2007 increased 9% compared to 2006, with
 7% due to the favorable impact of foreign exchange.    

The decline in Lipitor revenues in 2007 compared to 2006
 is driven by a combination of factors, including the following:   

the impact of an intensely competitive statin market, with
 competition from multi-source generic simvastatin and branded products;   

increased payer pressure in the U.S.; and   

a favorable development in a pricing dispute in the U.S.
 recorded in 2006,   

partially offset by:   

the favorable impact of foreign exchange; and   

a positive U.S. pricing impact, net of rebates,
 notwithstanding a more flexible contracting strategy.   

On May 30, 2007, we announced the return of Lipitor to
 Express Scripts Inc. s preferred list of drugs as of June 1, 2007, following
 our rebate agreement.   

On March 5, 2007, Lipitor was approved by the FDA for five
 new indications in patients with clinically evident heart disease, thereby
 expanding the U.S. label from primary prevention in moderate-risk patients to
 include secondary prevention in high-risk patients. Lipitor is now the only
 cholesterol-lowering medicine approved for the reduction in risk of
 hospitalization due to heart failure. These new indications have been
 incorporated into promotional materials, including a new direct-to-consumer
 (DTC) advertising campaign, and support the incremental benefit and overall
 safety of using higher doses of Lipitor.   

See Notes to Consolidated
      Financial Statements  Note 20. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies  for
      a discussion of recent developments with respect to certain patent litigation
      relating to Lipitor.  

Norvasc  , for treating
 hypertension, lost exclusivity in the U.S. in March 2007, six months earlier
 than expected, due to an appellate court decision that was counter to three
 previous trial court rulings in Pfizer s favor. Norvasc has also experienced
 patent expirations in many E.U. countries, but maintains exclusivity in
 certain other major markets, including Japan (where the Norvasc patent will
 expire in March 2008), and Canada (where the Norvasc patent will expire in
 August 2010). Norvasc worldwide revenues in 2007 decreased 38% compared to
 2006.    

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 20. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies  for
 a discussion of recent developments with respect to certain patent litigation
 relating to Norvasc.   

Caduet,   a single pill
 therapy combining Norvasc and Lipitor, recorded worldwide revenues of $568
 million, an increase of 54% for 2007, compared to 2006. This was largely
 driven by a more focused message platform and a highly targeted consumer
 campaign in the U.S. Caduet was launched in the U.S. in May 2004 and
 continues to grow at significantly higher rates than the overall U.S.
 cardiovascular market. However, with the introduction of generic amlodipine
 besylate, in addition to increased competition, growth has begun to slow.
 During 2007, Caduet was launched in France, Australia and Taiwan.   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 20. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies  for
 a discussion of recent developments with respect to certain patent litigation
 relating to Caduet.  

Chantix/Champix,   the first
 new prescription treatment to aid smoking cessation in nearly a decade,
 became available to patients in the U.S. in August 2006 and in select E.U.
 markets in December 2006. Chantix/Champix continues to demonstrate strong
 uptake, with more than 5 million patients globally having been prescribed
 Chantix since its launch. In the U.S., an unbranded advertising campaign
 introduced in early 2007 is working to effectively develop the market, and
 branded advertising was introduced in the third quarter of 2007. We continue
 to focus on increasing adherence and have introduced appropriate tools to
 physicians. In addition, we are conducting several pilot programs to reach
 patients in their first month of therapy through pharmacy programs, as well
 as through our  GetQuit  behavior
 modification program. Champix has secured final approval from the National
 Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) for use in the
 state-funded National Health Service in the U.K., following a positive
 appraisal decision in May 2007. Our strategy for this innovative medicine is
 to build a sustainable, medically supported market over time and to seek to
 secure reimbursement initiatives that we believe will drive future growth.
 Chantix/Champix recorded worldwide revenues of $883 million in 2007.   

In January 2008, we added a warning to Chantix s label in
 the U.S. that patients who are attempting to quit smoking by taking Chantix
 should be observed by a physician for neuropsychiatric symptoms like changes
 in behavior, agitation, depressed mood, suicidal ideation and suicidal
 behavior. A causal relationship between Chantix and these reported symptoms
 has not been established. In some reports, however, an association could not
 be excluded.  

Exubera,   see the  Our 2007
 Performance: Decision to Exit Exubera  section of this Financial Review.   

Zoloft,   which lost
 exclusivity in the U.S. in August 2006 and earlier in many European markets,
 experienced a 75% worldwide revenue decline in 2007, compared to 2006. It is
 indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder, panic disorder,
 obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) in adults and children, post-traumatic
 stress disorder (PTSD), premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) and social
 anxiety disorder (SAD). Zoloft is approved for acute and long-term use in all
 of these indications, with the exception of PMDD. Zoloft was launched   

18  |  2007 Financial Report   

Financial Review   

Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  

in Japan in July 2006 for the indications of
 depression/depressed state and panic disorder.  

On May 2, 2007, the FDA proposed that the existing
 blackbox warning on the labels of all antidepressants, including Zoloft,
 which describes an increased risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior in some
 children and adolescents, be expanded to include young adults to age 24,
 particularly during the first two months of treatment. The proposed label
 change also states that studies have not shown this increased risk in adults
 older than 24, that adults age 65 and older who are treated with
 antidepressants have a decreased risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior, and
 that depression and certain other psychiatric disorders are themselves the
 most important causes of suicide. We have implemented this label change in
 accordance with the FDA s proposal.  

Geodon/Zeldox,   a
 psychotropic agent, is a dopamine and serotonin receptor antagonist indicated
 for the treatment of schizophrenia and acute manic or mixed episodes
 associated with bipolar disorder. It is available in both an oral capsule and
 rapid-acting intramuscular formulation. In the U.S., Geodon had a new
 prescription share of 6.7% for 2007. In 2007, Geodon worldwide revenues grew
 13%, compared to 2006. Geodon growth was driven by recognition of its
 efficacy by prescribers as clinical experience increased, and by a favorable
 metabolic profile.   

Lyrica   grew to a 10.9%
 new prescription share of the total U.S. anti-epileptic market in 2007,
 fueled by strong efficacy, as well as high physician and patient
 satisfaction. In June 2007, Lyrica was approved in the U.S. for the
 management of fibromyalgia, one of the most common chronic, widespread pain
 conditions. This approval represents a breakthrough for the more than six
 million Americans who suffer from this debilitating condition who previously
 had no FDA-approved treatment.   

Celebrex   was approved in
 Japan in January 2007, for the treatment of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid
 arthritis. In February 2007, Celebrex was approved in Europe for the
 treatment of ankylosing spondylitis. From April 2007 through July 2007, we
 ran an innovative Celebrex direct-to-consumer (DTC) television advertising
 campaign in the U.S. about treatment options for arthritis. The 2   1   / 2   -minute
 television advertisement opened by addressing cardiovascular (CV) safety
 first and clarifying misperceptions among arthritis sufferers about the risks
 and benefits of Celebrex and other prescription non-steroidal
 anti-inflammatory drugs. This DTC ad campaign helped to generate patient
 interest and initiate a productive dialogue between physicians and patients.
 We resumed this television advertising campaign in November 2007.   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 20. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies  for
 a discussion of recent developments with respect to certain patent litigation
 relating to Celebrex.  

Zyvox   is the world s
 best-selling branded medicine for serious gram-positive infections in adults
 and children, which increasingly are caused by drug-resistant bacteria in
 hospitals and more recently, in the community setting. Zyvox is an    

appropriate first-line therapy for patients with serious
 complicated skin and skin structure infections or nosocomial pneumonia known
 or suspected to be caused by gram-positive pathogens, including
 Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MSRA) infection, with the
 flexibility of an intravenous and oral regimen. Zyvox works with a unique
 mechanism of action, which minimizes the potential for cross-resistance with
 other antibiotic classes and thus has the potential to effectively treat MRSA
 infection despite growing resistance to other important antibiotics.
 Worldwide sales of Zyvox grew 21% to $944 million in 2007.  

Zithromax/Zmax,   for the
 treatment of bacterial infections, experienced a 31% decline in worldwide
 revenues in 2007 compared to 2006, reflecting the expiration of Zithromax s
 composition-of-matter patent in the U.S. in November 2005 and the end of
 Pfizer s active sales promotion in July 2005.   

Selzentry/Celsentri  
 (maraviroc) is the first in a new class of oral HIV medicines in more than a
 decade known as CCR5 antagonists. CCR5 antagonists work by blocking the CCR5
 co-receptor, the virus  predominant entry route into T-cells.
 Selzentry/Celsentri stops the R5 virus on the outside surface of the cells
 before it enters, rather than fighting the virus inside, as do all other
 classes of oral HIV medicines. Selzentry/Celsentri was approved in the U.S.
 in August 2007 and in Europe in September 2007, and is indicated for
 combination anti-retroviral treatment of treatment-experienced adults
 infected with only CCR5-tropic HIV-1 detectable, who have evidence of viral
 replication and have HIV-1 strains resistant to multiple anti-retroviral
 agents. A diagnostic test confirms whether a patient is infected with
 CCR5-tropic HIV-1, which is also known as  R5-virus.    

Viagra   remains the
 leading treatment for erectile dysfunction and one of the world s most
 recognized pharmaceutical brands. Viagra revenues grew 6% worldwide, with
 U.S. revenues flat and international revenues increasing 13% in 2007,
 compared to 2006. The growth in Viagra international revenues was driven by
 foreign exchange, as well as a combination of other factors, including our
 focus on strengthening its value proposition to key customers and growth in
 the erectile dysfunction market. In July 2007, we launched a television ad
 campaign in the U.S. for Viagra aimed at educating and motivating men with
 erectile dysfunction to seek treatment.   

Detrol/Detrol LA,   a
 muscarinic receptor antagonist, is the most prescribed medicine worldwide for
 overactive bladder, a condition that affects up to 100 million people around
 the world. Detrol/Detrol LA is an extended-release formulation taken once
 daily. Worldwide Detrol/Detrol LA revenues grew 8% to $1.2 billion in 2007,
 compared to 2006. Detrol/Detrol LA continues to lead the overactive bladder
 market and perform well in an increasingly competitive marketplace. In the
 U.S., Detrol/Detrol LA s new prescription share declined 3.4% to a 39.5%
 share for 2007.   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 20. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies  for
 a discussion of recent developments with respect to certain patent litigation
 relating to Detrol/Detrol LA.  

2007 Financial Report  |  19   

Financial Review  

Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies 

Camptosar   is indicated as
  first-line therapy for metastatic colorectal cancer in combination with
  5-fluorouracil and leucovorin. It is also indicated for patients in whom
  metastatic colorectal cancer has recurred or progressed despite following
  initial fluorouracil-based therapy. Camptosar is for intravenous use only.
  Worldwide revenues in 2007 increased 7% to $969 million, compared to 2006.
  The National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN), an alliance of 21 of the
  world s leading cancer centers, has issued guidelines recommending Camptosar
  as an option across all lines of treatment for advanced colorectal cancer.
  The U.S. basic patent for Camptosar expired in February 2008.   

Sutent   is an oral
  multi-kinase inhibitor that combines anti- angiogenic and anti-tumor activity
  to inhibit the blood supply to tumors and has direct anti-tumor effects.
  Sutent was approved by the FDA and launched in the U.S. in January 2006 for
  advanced renal cell carcinoma, including metastatic renal cell carcinoma, and
  gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) after disease progression on, or
  intolerance to, imatinib mesylate. In the first quarter of 2007, the U.S.
  label was revised to include new first-line advanced renal cell carcinoma
  data. In January 2007, Sutent received full marketing authorization and
  extension of the indication to first-line treatment of advanced and/or
  metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC), as well as approval as a second-line
  treatment for GIST, in the E.U. We believe that future growth of Sutent will
  be fueled by emerging new data in a range of potential new indications.
  Sutent recorded $581 million in worldwide revenues in 2007.   

Xalatan/Xalacom  , a
  prostaglandin analogue used to lower the intraocular pressure associated with
  glaucoma and ocular hypertension, is one of the world s leading branded
  glaucoma medicines. Clinical data showing its advantages in treating
  intraocular pressure compared with beta blockers should support the continued
  growth of this important medicine. Xalacom, the only fixed combination
  prostaglandin (Xalatan) and beta blocker, is available primarily in European
  markets. Xalatan/Xalacom worldwide revenues grew 10% in 2007, compared to
  2006.   

Genotropin  , for the treatment
  of short stature in children with growth hormone deficiency, Prader-Willi
  Syndrome, Turner Syndrome, Small for Gestational Age Syndrome and in adults
  with growth hormone deficiency, is the world s leading human growth hormone.
  Genotropin revenues grew 6% worldwide, driven by its broad platform of
  innovative injection delivery devices.   

Zyrtec/Zyrtec D  , allergy
  medicines, experienced a 2% decline in worldwide revenues compared to 2006.
  We lost U.S. exclusivity for Zyrtec/Zyrtec D in January 2008. Since we sold
  our rights to market Zyrtec/Zyrtec D over-the-counter in connection with the
  sale of our Consumer Healthcare business, we ceased selling this product in
  late January 2008.   

Alliance revenues reflect revenues primarily associated
  with our co-promotion of Aricept, Rebif and Spiriva.  

Aricept  , discovered and
  developed by our alliance partner Eisai Co., Ltd, is the world s leading
  medicine to treat symptoms of Alzheimer s disease. See Notes to Consolidated   

Financial Statements  Note
  20. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies  for a discussion of
  certain patent litigation relating to Aricept.  

Rebif  , discovered and
  developed by EMD Serono, Inc. (Serono), is used to treat symptoms of
  relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis. Pfizer co-promotes Rebif with Serono
  in the U.S.   

Spiriva  , discovered and
  developed by our alliance partner Boehringer Ingelheim (BI), is used to treat
  chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, a chronic respiratory disorder that
  includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema.   

Alliances allow us to co-promote or license these products
  for sale in certain countries. Under the co-promotion agreements, these
  products are marketed and promoted with our alliance partners. We provide
  funding through cash, staff and other resources to sell, market, promote and
  further develop these products.  

Product Developments   We continue to invest in R D to
provide future sources of revenues through the development of new products, as
well as through additional uses for existing in-line and alliance products. We
have a broad and deep pipeline of medicines in development. However, there are
no assurances as to when, or if, we will receive regulatory approval for
additional indications for existing products or any of our other products in
development. Below are significant regulatory actions by, and filings pending
with, the FDA and regulatory authorities in the E.U. and Japan.   

Recent FDA approvals:   

PRODUCT  

INDICATION  

DATE APPROVED  

Selzentry (maraviroc)  

Treatment of human immuno- deficiency virus/acquired
  immune deficiency (HIV) in CCR5-tropic treatment-experienced patients  

August 2007  

Lyrica  

Treatment of fibromyalgia  

June 2007  

Fragmin  

Prevention of blood clots in patients with
cancer  

May 2007  

Lipitor  

Secondary prevention of cardiovascular (CV) events in
  patients with established coronary heart disease  

March 2007  

Pending U.S. new drug applications
(NDAs)
  and supplemental filings:   

PRODUCT  

INDICATION  

DATE SUBMITTED  

Fablyn (lasofoxifene)  

Treatment of osteoporosis  

December 2007  

Spiriva  

Respimat device for chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease  

November 2007  

Zmax  

Treatment of bacterial infections  sustained
  release Pediatric acute otitis media (AOM) filing  

November 2006  

fesoterodine   

Treatment of overactive bladder   

March 2006  

Vfend  

Treatment of fungal infections  Pediatric
filing  

June 2005  

dalbavancin  

Treatment of complicated skin/skin structure gram-positive
  bacterial infections  

December 2004  

On September 28, 2007, we received an
 approvable  letter from the FDA for Zmax that sets forth requirements to
obtain approval for the AOM indication based on pharmacokinetic data. We plan
to discuss these requirements with the FDA and seek an agreement on actions to
address the FDA s comments. 

20  |  2007
Financial Report    

Financial Review  

Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies 

We received an  approvable  letter
from the FDA for fesoterodine for the treatment of overactive bladder in
January 2007. Regulatory review of fesoterodine is progressing in the U.S. and
fesoterodine was approved in the E.U. in April 2007. We are working with
Schwarz Pharma, the licensor, to scale up manufacturing and identify
manufacturing site alternatives. Launch is planned for mid-2008 in Europe and,
subject to FDA approval, early 2009 in the U.S.  

  In December 2007, we received a third
 approvable  letter from the FDA for dalbavancin. We and the third-party
manufacturer are working with the FDA to respond to the requirements set forth
in that letter.  

  We received  not-approvable  letters
from the FDA for Fablyn (lasofoxifene) for the prevention of post-menopausal
osteoporosis in September 2005 and for the treatment of vaginal atrophy in
January 2006. We submitted a new NDA for the treatment of osteoporosis in
post-menopausal women in December 2007, including the three-year interim data
from the Postmenopausal Evaluation And Risk-reduction with Lasofoxifene (PEARL)
study in support of the new NDA.  

  In September 2005, we received a
 not-approvable  letter for Dynastat (parecoxib), an injectable prodrug for
valdecoxib for the treatment of acute pain. We have had discussions with the
FDA regarding this letter, and we are considering plans to address the FDA s
concerns.  

Regulatory approvals and filings in
the E.U. and Japan:   

PRODUCT  

DESCRIPTION OF EVENT  

DATE APPROVED  

DATE SUBMITTED  

Fablyn/(lasofoxifene)  

Application submitted in the E.U. for the treatment of
  osteoporosis  

January 2008  

Chantix/ Champix  

Approval in Japan as an aid to smoking
cessation  

January 2008  

Spiriva  

Approval in the E.U. for Respimat device for chronic
  obstructive pulmonary disease  

November 2007  

Caduet  

Application submitted in Japan for hypertension  

November 2007  

Celsentri (maraviroc)  

Approval in the E.U. for the treatment of HIV in CCR5-
  tropic treatment- experienced patients  

September 2007  

Eraxis/Ecalta  

Approval in the E.U. for the treatment of invasive
  candidiasis in adult non- neutropenic patients  

September 2007  

Selera (Inspra)  

Approval in Japan for treatment of hypertension  

September 2007  

dalbavancin  

Application submitted in the E.U. for the treatment of
  skin and skin structure infections  

July 2007  

Regulatory approvals and filings in
the E.U. and Japan:    (continued)    

PRODUCT  

DESCRIPTION OF EVENT  

DATE APPROVED  

DATE SUBMITTED  

rifabutin  

Application submitted in Japan for Mycobacterium
infection  

June 2007  

fesoterodine  

Approval in the E.U. for treatment of overactive
bladder  

April 2007  

Macugen  

Application submitted in Japan for treatment of
age-related macular degeneration  

March 2007  

Celebrex  

Approval in the E.U. for the treatment of ankylosing
  spondylitis   

February 2007  

Application submitted in Japan for treatment of lower-
  back pain   

February 2007  

Approval in Japan for treatment of osteoarthritis and
  rheumatoid arthritis  

January 2007  

sildenafil  

Application submitted in Japan for treatment of pulmonary
  arterial hypertension  

February 2007  

Somavert  

Approval in Japan for treatment of acromegaly  

January 2007  

Sutent  

Approval in the E.U. for mRCC as a first-line
treatment  

January 2007  

Approval in the E.U. for GIST as a second-line
treatment  

January 2007  

Application submitted in Japan for treatment of
mRCC  

December 2006  

Application submitted in Japan for treatment of
GIST  

December 2006  

Ongoing or planned clinical trials for
  additional uses and dosage forms for our in-line products include:   

PRODUCT  

INDICATION  

Celebrex  

Acute gouty arthritis  

Eraxis/Vfend Combination  

Aspergillosis fungal infections  

Geodon/ Zeldox  

Bipolar relapse prevention;
  pediatric bipolar mania; adjunctive use in bipolar depression  

Lyrica  

Epilepsy monotherapy  

Macugen  

Diabetic macular edema  

Revatio  

Pediatric pulmonary arterial
  hypertension  

Selzentry/ Celsentri  

HIV in CCR5-tropic
  treatment-naive patients  

Sutent  

Breast cancer; colorectal cancer;
  non-small cell lung cancer; liver cancer  

Zithromax/ chloroquine  

Malaria  

2007 Financial Report  |  21    

Financial Review  

Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies 

New drug candidates in late-stage
development include CP-945,598, a cannibinoid-1 receptor antagonist for
treatment of obesity; axitinib, a multi-targeted kinase for treatment of
pancreatic cancer; CP-675,206, an anti-CTLA4 monoclonal antibody for melanoma;
PD-332334, an alpha2delta compound for the treatment of generalized anxiety
disorder; reboxetine, for the treatment of fibromyalgia; and apixaban for the
prevention and treatment of venous thromboembolism and the prevention of stroke
in patients with atrial fibrillation, which is being developed in collaboration
with Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.  

  In June 2007, we announced the discontinuation
of a development program in non-small cell lung cancer for PF-3,512,676 in
combination with cytotoxic chemotherapy. We licensed PF-3,512,676 from Coley in
2005.  

  Additional product-related programs
are in various stages of discovery and development. Also, see the discussion in
the  Our Strategic Initiatives Strategy and Recent Transactions: Acquisitions,
Licensing and Collaborations  section of this Financial Review.  

   Animal Health   
Revenues of our Animal Health
business follow:  

Our Animal Health business is one of
the largest in the world.  

  The increase in Animal Health
revenues in 2007, compared to 2006, was primarily attributable to:  

for livestock products, the continued good performance of
  our premium anti-infectives for cattle and swine, and intramammaries in 2007,
  as well as revenues from Embrex, which we acquired in the first quarter of
  2007;  

for companion animal products, the good performances of
  Revolution (a parasiticide for dogs and cats); Rimadyl (for treatment of pain
  and inflammation associated with canine osteoarthritis and soft-tissue
  orthopedic surgery); and new product launches, such as Convenia
  (first-in-class single-dose treatment antibiotic therapy for dogs and cats),
  Slentrol (weight management for dogs) and Cerenia (treatment and prevention
  of vomiting in dogs); and  

the favorable impact of foreign exchange, which increased
  revenues by 5%.  

The increase in Animal Health revenues in 2006, compared
  to 2005, was primarily attributable to:  

for livestock products, the continued good performance of
  Draxxin (for treatment of respiratory disease in cattle and swine) in Europe
  and in the U.S.; and  

for companion animal products, the continued good
  performance of Revolution;  

partially offset by:  

a decline in U.S. Rimadyl revenues due to intense branded
  competition, as well as increased generic competition in the European
  companion animal market.  

Costs and
  Expenses    

Cost of Sales 
  Cost of sales increased 47% in 2007 and increased 6% in
2006, while revenues were flat in 2007 and increased 2% in 2006. Cost of
sales as a percentage of revenues increased in 2007 compared to 2006 and in
2006 compared to 2005.    

Cost of sales in 2007, compared to 2006, increased as a
  result of:   

asset impairment charges, write-offs and other exit costs
  associated with Exubera of $2.6 billion (See the  Our 2007 Performance:
  Decision to Exit Exubera  section of this Financial Review);   

the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange on expenses;   

the impact of higher implementation costs associated with
  our cost-reduction initiatives of $700 million in 2007, compared to $392
  million in 2006; and   

costs of $194 million for 2007, related to business
  transition activities associated with the sale of our Consumer Healthcare
  business, completed in December 2006,   

partially offset by:   

savings related to our cost-reduction initiatives.   

Cost of sales in 2006, compared to 2005, increased as a
  result of:   

the impact of higher implementation costs associated with
  our cost-reduction initiatives of $392 million in 2006, compared to $124
  million in 2005;   

the timing of implementation of inventory-management
  initiatives;   

the unfavorable impact on expenses of foreign exchange;
  and   

charges related to certain inventory and manufacturing
  equipment write-downs,   

partially offset by:   

changes in sales mix;   

savings related to our cost-reduction initiatives; and   

$73 million in write-offs of inventory and exit costs in
  2005 related to suspension of sales and marketing of Bextra.   

Selling,
  Informational and Administrative (SI A) Expenses    

SI A expenses in 2007 were comparable to 2006, which
  reflects:   

savings related to our cost-reduction initiatives,   

offset by:   

the unfavorable impact on expenses of foreign exchange;   

the impact of higher implementation costs associated with
  our cost-reduction initiatives of $334 million in 2007, compared to $243
  million in 2006; and   

charges associated with Exubera of $85 million (See the
   Our 2007 Performance: Decision to Exit Exubera  section of this Financial
  Review).   

22  |  2007
Financial Report    

Financial Review  

Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies 

SI A expenses increased 2% in 2006, compared to 2005,
  which reflects:  

higher promotional investments in new product launches and
  in-line product promotional programs;  

expenses related to share-based payments; and  

the impact of higher implementation costs associated with
  our cost-reduction initiatives of $243 million in 2006, compared to $151
  million in 2005,  

partially offset by:  

the favorable impact on expenses of foreign exchange; and  

savings related to our cost-reduction initiatives.  

Research and
  Development (R D) Expenses   

R D
  expenses increased 6% in 2007, compared to 2006, which reflects:   

the impact of higher implementation costs associated with
  our cost-reduction initiatives of $416 million in 2007, compared to $176
  million in 2006;  

an initial payment to BMS of $250 million and additional
  payments to BMS related to product development efforts, in connection with
  our collaboration to develop and commercialize apixaban, recorded in 2007;  

the unfavorable impact on expenses of foreign exchange;  

a one-time R D milestone due to us from
  sanofi-aventis (approximately $118 million) recorded in 2006; and  

exit costs, such as contract termination costs, associated
  with Exubera of $100 million (See the  Our 2007 Performance: Decision to Exit
  Exubera  section of this Financial Review),  

partially offset by:  

savings related to our cost-reduction initiatives.  

R D expenses increased 5% in 2006, compared to 2005,
  which reflects:  

the impact of higher implementation costs associated with
  our cost-reduction initiatives of $176 million in 2006, compared to $50
  million in 2005;  

expenses related to share-based payments;  

timing considerations associated with the advancement of
  development programs for pipeline products; and  

higher payments for intellectual property rights,
  discussed below, among other factors,  

partially offset by:  

a one-time R D milestone due to us from sanofi-aventis
  (approximately $118 million); and  

savings related to our cost-reduction initiatives.  

R D expenses also include
payments for intellectual property rights of $603 million in 2007, $292 million
in 2006 and $156 million in 2005. (For further discussion, see the  Our
Strategic Initiatives Strategy and Recent Transactions: Acquisitions, Licensing
and Collaborations  section of this Financial Review.)  

Acquisition-Related In-Process Research and Development Charges   

  The estimated value of
acquisition-related IPR D is expensed at the acquisition date. In 2007, we
expensed $283 million of IPR D, primarily related to our acquisitions of
BioRexis and Embrex. In 2006, we expensed $835 million of IPR D, primarily
related to our acquisitions of Rinat and PowderMed. In 2005, we expensed $1.7
billion of IPR D, primarily related to our acquisitions of Vicuron and
Idun.  

Cost-Reduction Initiatives   In connection with our cost-reduction
initiatives, which were launched in early 2005 and broadened in October 2006,
our management has performed a comprehensive review of our processes,
organizations, systems and decision-making procedures in a company-wide effort
to improve performance and efficiency. On January 22, 2007, we announced
additional plans to change the way we run our businesses to meet the challenges
of a changing business environment and to take advantage of the diverse
opportunities in the marketplace. We are generating net cost reductions through
site rationalization in R D and manufacturing, streamlined organizational
structures, sales force and staff function reductions, and increased
outsourcing and procurement savings. Compared to 2006, we expect to achieve a
net reduction of the pre-tax total expense component of Adjusted income of at
least $1.5 billion to $2.0 billion by the end of 2008 on a constant currency
basis (the actual foreign exchange rates in effect in 2006). (For an
understanding of Adjusted income, see the  Adjusted Income  section of this Financial
Review.)  

  The actions associated with the
expanded cost-reduction initiatives include restructuring charges, such as
asset impairments, exit costs and severance costs (including any related
impacts to our benefit plans, including settlements and curtailments) and
associated implementation costs, such as accelerated depreciation charges,
primarily associated with plant network optimization efforts, and expenses
associated with system and process standardization and the expansion of shared
services worldwide. (See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 5. Cost-Reduction Initiatives. ) The
strengthening of the euro and other currencies relative to the dollar, while
favorable on  Revenues , has had an
adverse impact on our total expenses ( Cost
of sales, Selling, administrative and informational expenses,  and  Research and development expenses ),
including the reported impact of these cost-reduction efforts.  

2007 Financial Report  |  23    

Financial Review  

Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies 

We incurred the following costs in
connection with our cost-reduction initiatives: 

(a)    

For 2007, included in  Cost of sales  ($700 million),  Selling, informational and administrative
expenses  ($334
  million),  Research and development
  expenses  ($416 million) and in  Other
  (income)/deductions  net ($61 million income). For 2006, included
  in  Cost of sales  ($392
  million),  Selling, informational and
  administrative expenses  ($243 million),  Research and development expenses  ($176 million) and in  Other
(income)/deductions net  ($23
  million income). For 2005, included in  Cost
  of sales  ($124 million),  Selling,
  informational and administrative expenses  ($151 million), and  Research and development expenses  ($50
  million).  

(b)    

Included in  Restructuring charges and acquisition-related
  costs.   

Through December 31, 2007, the
restructuring charges primarily relate to our plant network optimization
efforts and the restructuring of our worldwide marketing and research and
development operations, and the implementation costs primarily relate to
accelerated depreciation of certain assets, as well as system and process
standardization and the expansion of shared services.  

  The components of restructuring charges
associated with our cost-reduction initiatives follow:  

(a)    

Includes adjustments for foreign
  currency translation.  

(b)    

Included in  Other current liabilities  ($1.1 billion)
  and  Other noncurrent liabilities  ($186
  million).  

From the beginning of the
cost-reduction initiatives in 2005 through December 31, 2007,  Employee termination costs  represent the
expected reduction of the workforce by 20,800 employees, mainly in research,
manufacturing and sales. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 13,000 of these
employees have been formally terminated.  Employee
termination costs  are recorded when the actions are probable and
estimable and include accrued severance benefits, pension and postretirement
benefits.  Asset impairments  primarily
include charges to write down property, plant and equipment.  Other  primarily includes costs to exit
certain activities.  

   Acquisition-Related Costs   

  We recorded in  Restructuring charges and acquisition-related costs  $11
million in 2007, $27 million in 2006 and $918 million in 2005, for
acquisition-related costs. Amounts in 2005 were primarily related to our
acquisition of Pharmacia on April 16, 2003 and   

included integration costs of
$543 million and restructuring charges of $375 million. As of December 31,
2007, virtually all restructuring charges incurred have been utilized.  

  Integration costs represent external,
incremental costs directly related to an acquisition, including expenditures
for consulting and systems integration. Restructuring charges can include
severance, costs of vacating duplicative facilities, contract termination and
other exit costs.  

   Other (Income)/Deductions Net   

  In 2007, we recorded higher net interest
income compared to 2006, due primarily to higher net financial assets during
2007 compared to 2006, reflecting proceeds of $16.6 billion from the sale of
our Consumer Healthcare business in late December 2006, and higher interest
rates. Also in 2007, we recorded a gain of $211 million related to the sale of
a building in Korea. In 2006, we recorded a charge of $320 million related to
the impairment of our Depo-Provera intangible asset. In 2005, we recorded
charges of $1.2 billion primarily related to the impairment of our Bextra
intangible asset. See also Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 7. Other
(Income)/Deductions Net.   

   Provision for Taxes on Income   

  Our overall effective tax rate for
continuing operations was 11.0% in 2007, 15.3% in 2006 and 29.4% in 2005. The
lower tax rate in 2007 is primarily due to the impact of charges associated
with our decision to exit Exubera (see the  Our 2007 Performance: Decision to
Exit Exubera  section of this Financial Review), higher charges related to our
cost-reduction initiatives in 2007, lower non-deductible charges for
acquisition-related IPR D, and the volume and geographic mix of product
sales and restructuring charges in 2007 compared to 2006, partially offset by
certain one-time tax benefits in 2006, all discussed below.  

  The lower tax rate in 2006 compared
to 2005 is primarily due to certain one-time tax benefits associated with
favorable tax legislation and the resolution of certain tax positions, and a
decrease in the 2005 estimated U.S. tax provision related to the repatriation
of foreign earnings, all as discussed below, and the impact of the sale of our
Consumer Healthcare business.  

  In the third quarter of 2006, we
recorded a decrease to the 2005 estimated U.S. tax provision related to the repatriation
of foreign earnings, due primarily to the receipt of information that raised
our assessment of the likelihood of prevailing on the technical merits of a
certain position, and we recognized a tax benefit of $124 million.  

  In the first quarter of 2006, we were
notified by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Appeals Division that a
resolution had been reached on the matter that we were in the process of
appealing related to the tax deductibility of an acquisition-related breakup
fee paid by the Warner-Lambert Company in 2000. As a result, in the first
quarter of 2006, we recorded a tax benefit of approximately $441 million
related to the resolution of this issue.  

  On January 23, 2006, the IRS issued
final regulations on Statutory Mergers and Consolidations, which impacted
certain prior-period transactions. In the first quarter of 2006, we recorded a
tax benefit of $217 million, reflecting the total impact of these regulations.  

24  |  2007
Financial Report    

Financial Review   

Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  

In 2005, we recorded an income tax
charge of $1.7 billion, included in  Provision
for taxes on income,  in connection with our decision to repatriate
approximately $37 billion of foreign earnings in accordance with the American
Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Jobs Act). The Jobs Act created a temporary
incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate accumulated income earned abroad
by providing an 85% dividend-received deduction for certain dividends from
controlled foreign corporations in 2005. In addition, during 2005, we recorded
a tax benefit of $586 million, primarily related to the resolution of certain
tax positions.  

   Discontinued Operations Net of Tax   For further discussion about our
dispositions, see the  Our Strategic Initiatives Strategy and Recent
Transactions: Dispositions  section of this Financial Review. The following
amounts, primarily related to our former Consumer Healthcare business, have
been segregated from continuing operations and included in  Discontinued operations net of tax  in the
consolidated statements of income: 

Adjusted Income   

   General Description of Adjusted Income Measure   Adjusted income is an alternative
view of performance used by management and we believe that investors 
understanding of our performance is enhanced by disclosing this performance
measure. We report Adjusted income in order to portray the results of our major
operations the discovery, development, manufacture, marketing and sale of
prescription medicines for humans and animals prior to considering certain
income statement elements. We have defined Adjusted income as Net income before
the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs,
discontinued operations, the cumulative effect of a change in accounting
principles and certain significant items. The Adjusted income measure is not,
and should not be viewed as, a substitute for U.S. GAAP Net income.  

The Adjusted income measure is an
important internal measurement for Pfizer. We measure the performance of the
overall Company on this basis. The following are examples of how the Adjusted
income measure is utilized.  

Senior management receives a monthly analysis of our
 operating results that is prepared on an Adjusted income basis;  

Our annual budgets are prepared on an Adjusted income basis;
 and  

Annual and long-term compensation, including annual cash
 bonuses, merit-based salary adjustments and share-based payments for various
 levels of management, is based on financial measures that include Adjusted
 income. The Adjusted income measure currently represents a significant
 portion of target objectives that are utilized to determine the annual
 compensation for various levels of management, although the actual weighting
 of the objective may vary by level of management and job responsibility and
 may be considered in the determination of certain long-term compensation
 plans. The portion of senior management s bonus, merit-based salary increase
 and share-based awards based on the Adjusted income measure ranges from 10%
 to 30%.  

Despite the importance of this
measure to management in goal setting and performance measurement, we stress
that Adjusted income is a non-U.S. GAAP financial measure that has no
standardized meaning prescribed by U.S. GAAP and, therefore, has limits in its
usefulness to investors. Because of its non-standardized definition, Adjusted
income (unlike U.S. GAAP Net income) may not be comparable with the calculation
of similar measures for other companies. Adjusted income is presented solely to
permit investors to more fully understand how management assesses our
performance.  

  We also recognize that, as an
internal measure of performance, the Adjusted income measure has limitations
and we do not restrict our performance-management process solely to this
metric. A limitation of the Adjusted income measure is that it provides a view
of our operations without including all events during a period, such as the
effects of an acquisition or amortization of purchased intangibles and does not
provide a comparable view of our performance to other companies in the
pharmaceutical industry. We also use other specifically tailored tools designed
to ensure the highest levels of our performance. For example, our R D
organization has productivity targets, upon which its effectiveness is measured.
In addition, Performance Share Awards grants made in 2006, 2007 and future
years will be paid based on a non-discretionary formula that measures our
performance using relative total shareholder return.  

   Purchase Accounting Adjustments   Adjusted income is calculated prior
to considering certain significant purchase-accounting impacts, such as those
related to our acquisitions of BioRexis, Embrex, Rinat, sanofi-aventis  rights
to Exubera, PowderMed, Idun and Vicuron, as well as net asset acquisitions.
These impacts can include charges for purchased in-process R D, the
incremental charge to cost of sales from the sale of acquired inventory that
was written up to fair value and the incremental charges related to the
amortization of finite-lived  

2007 Financial Report  |  25   

Financial Review   

Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  

intangible assets for the increase to
fair value. Therefore, the Adjusted income measure includes the revenues earned
upon the sale of the acquired products without considering the aforementioned
significant charges.  

  Certain of the purchase-accounting
adjustments associated with a business combination, such as the amortization of
intangibles acquired in connection with our acquisition of Pharmacia in 2003,
can occur for up to 40 years (these assets have a weighted-average useful life
of approximately nine years), but this presentation provides an alternative
view of our performance that is used by management to internally assess
business performance. We believe the elimination of amortization attributable
to acquired intangible assets provides management and investors an alternative
view of our business results by trying to provide a degree of parity to
internally developed intangible assets for which research and development costs
have been previously expensed.  

  However, a completely accurate
comparison of internally developed intangible assets and acquired intangible
assets cannot be achieved through Adjusted income. This component of Adjusted
income is derived solely with the impacts of the items listed in the first
paragraph of this section. We have not factored in the impacts of any other
differences in experience that might have occurred if we had discovered and
developed those intangible assets on our own, and this approach is not intended
to be representative of the results that would have occurred in those
circumstances. For example, our research and development costs in total, and in
the periods presented, may have been different; our speed to commercialization
and resulting sales, if any, may have been different; or our costs to
manufacture may have been different. In addition, our marketing efforts may
have been received differently by our customers. As such, in total, there can
be no assurance that our Adjusted income amounts would have been the same as
presented had we discovered and developed the acquired intangible assets.  

   Acquisition-Related Costs   Adjusted income is calculated prior
to considering integration and restructuring costs associated with business
combinations because these costs are unique to each transaction and represent
costs that were incurred to restructure and integrate two businesses as a
result of the acquisition decision. For additional clarity, only restructuring
and integration activities that are associated with a purchase business
combination or a net-asset acquisition are included in acquisition-related
costs. We have made no adjustments for the resulting synergies.  

  We believe that viewing income prior
to considering these charges provides investors with a useful additional
perspective because the significant costs incurred in a business combination
result primarily from the need to eliminate duplicate assets, activities or
employees a natural result of acquiring a fully integrated set of activities. For
this reason, we believe that the costs incurred to convert disparate systems,
to close duplicative facilities or to eliminate duplicate positions (for
example, in the context of a business combination) can be viewed differently
from those costs incurred in other, more normal business contexts.  

The integration and restructuring
costs associated with a business combination may occur over several years, with
the more significant impacts ending within three years of the transaction.
Because of the need for certain external approvals for some actions, the span
of time needed to achieve certain restructuring and integration activities can
be lengthy. For example, due to the highly regulated nature of the
pharmaceutical business, the closure of excess facilities can take several
years, as all manufacturing changes are subject to extensive validation and
testing and must be approved by the FDA.  

   Discontinued Operations   Adjusted income is calculated prior
to considering the results of operations included in discontinued operations,
such as our Consumer Healthcare business, which we sold in December 2006, as
well as any related gains or losses on the sale of such operations. We believe
that this presentation is meaningful to investors because, while we review our
businesses and product lines periodically for strategic fit with our
operations, we do not build or run our businesses with an intent to sell them.  

   Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principles   Adjusted income is calculated prior
to considering the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles. The
cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles is generally one time in
nature and not expected to occur as part of our normal business on a regular
basis.  

   Certain Significant Items   Adjusted income is calculated prior
to considering certain significant items. Certain significant items represent
substantive, unusual items that are evaluated on an individual basis. Such
evaluation considers both the quantitative and the qualitative aspect of their
unusual nature. Unusual, in this context, may represent items that are not part
of our ongoing business; items that, either as a result of their nature or
size, we would not expect to occur as part of our normal business on a regular
basis; items that would be non-recurring; or items that relate to products we
no longer sell. While not all-inclusive, examples of items that could be
included as certain significant items would be a major non-acquisition-related
restructuring charge and associated implementation costs for a program which is
specific in nature with a defined term, such as those related to our
cost-reduction initiatives; charges related to sales or disposals of products
or facilities that do not qualify as discontinued operations as defined by U.S.
GAAP; amounts associated with transition service agreements in support of
discontinued operations after sale; certain intangible asset impairments;
adjustments related to the resolution of certain tax positions; the impact of
adopting certain significant, event-driven tax legislation, such as adjustments
associated with charges attributable to the repatriation of foreign earnings in
accordance with the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004; or possible charges
related to legal matters, such as certain of those discussed in  Legal Proceedings  in our Form 10-K and in  Part II: Other
Information; Item 1, Legal Proceedings
 in our Form 10-Q filings. Normal, ongoing defense costs of the
Company or settlements and accruals on legal matters made in the normal course
of our business would not be considered certain significant items.  

26  |  2007 Financial Report   

Financial Review   

Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  

Reconciliation   

  A reconciliation between  Net income , as reported under U.S. GAAP,
and Adjusted income follows: 

*  

Calculation not meaningful.  

M+ Change greater than 1,000%.  

Certain amounts and percentages
 may reflect rounding adjustments.  

2007 Financial Report  |  27   

Financial Review   

Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  

Adjusted income as shown above excludes the following
 items:  

(a)    

Included primarily in  Amortization of intangible assets.  (See
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note
 13. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. )  

(b)    

Included in  Acquisition-related in-process research and
 development charges.  (See Notes to Consolidated Financial
 Statements  Note 2. Acquisitions. )  

(c)    

Included in  Restructuring charges and acquisition-related costs .
 (See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 5. Cost-Reduction Initiatives  and  Note 6. Acquisition-Related
Costs .)  

(d)    

Discontinued
 operations net of tax   is
 primarily related to our Consumer Healthcare business. (See Notes to
 Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 3.
 Discontinued Operations. )   

(e)    

Included in  Cost of sales  ($700 million),  Selling, informational and administrative expenses
 ($334
 million),  Research and development
 expenses  ($416 million) and in  Other
 (income)/deductions net  ($61 million income) for 2007. Included in
  Cost of sales  ($392 million),  Selling, informational and administrative expenses  ($243
 million),  Research and development
 expenses  ($176 million) and in  Other
 (income)/deductions net  ($23 million income) for 2006. Included in
  Cost of sales  ($124 million),  Selling, informational and administrative expenses  ($151
 million),  Research and development
 expenses  ($50 million) for 2005. (See Notes to Consolidated
 Financial Statements  Note 5.
 Cost-Reduction Initiatives .)   

(f)    

In 2007, these charges primarily
 related to the decision to exit Exubera and comprise approximately $1.1
 billion of intangible asset impairments, $661 million of inventory
 write-offs, $454 million of fixed asset impairments and $578 million of other
 exit costs and are included in  Cost of
 sales  ($2.6 billion),  Selling,
 informational and administrative expenses  ($85 million),  Research and development expenses  ($100
 million) and  Revenues  ($10
 million for an estimate of customer returns) for 2007. See the  Our 2007
 Performance: Decision to Exit Exubera  section of this Financial Review. In
 2006, $320 million related to the impairment of the Depo-Provera intangible
 asset is included in  Other
 (income)/deductions net . In 2005, included primarily in  Other (income)/deductions net  and
 includes $1.2 billion related to the impairment of the Bextra intangible
 asset. (See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 13B. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets:
 Other Intangible Assets. )  

(g)    

Included in  Revenues  ($219 million),  Cost of sales  ($194 million),  Selling, informational
and administrative expenses  ($15
 million) and  Other (income)/deductions net
  ($16 million income) for 2007.  

(h)    

Included in  Research and development expenses .  

(i)    

Primarily included in  Other (income)/deductions net . (See
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note
 7. Other (Income)/Deductions Net. )  

(j)     

Included in  Provision for
taxes on income . (See
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note
 8. Taxes on Income. )  

28     |      2007
Financial Report    

Financial Review   

Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  

Financial Condition, Liquidity and  Capital Resources   

   Net Financial Assets   

  Our net financial asset position as
of December 31 follows: 

Short-term investments as of December
31, 2006, reflect the receipt of proceeds of $16.6 billion from the sale of our
Consumer Healthcare business on December 20, 2006. 

We rely largely on operating cash
flow, short-term investments, long-term debt and short-term commercial paper
borrowings to provide for the working capital needs of our operations,
including our R D activities. We believe that we have the ability to obtain
both short-term and long-term debt to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable
future.  

   Investments   Our short-term and long-term
investments consist primarily of high-quality, investment-grade
available-for-sale debt securities. Our long-term investments include debt
securities that totaled $2.6 billion as of December 31, 2007, which have
maturities ranging substantially from one to five years. Wherever possible,
cash management is centralized and intercompany financing is used to provide
working capital to our operations. Where local restrictions prevent
intercompany financing, working capital needs are met through operating cash
flows and/or external borrowings. Our portfolio of short-term investments as of
December 31, 2006, reflects the receipt of proceeds from the sale of our
Consumer Healthcare business of $16.6 billion. Our portfolio of short-term
investments was reduced in 2007 and the proceeds were used to fund items such
as the taxes due on the gain from the sale of our Consumer Healthcare business,
completed in December 2006, share repurchases, dividends and capital expenditures
in 2007.  

   Long-Term Debt Issuance   On December 10, 2007, we issued the
following notes to be used for general corporate purposes, including the
payment of maturing debt:  

The notes were issued under a
securities registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) in March 2007.  

   Credit Ratings   Two major corporate debt-rating
organizations, Moody s Investors Service (Moody s) and Standard   Poor s
(S P), assign ratings to our short-term and long-term debt. The following
chart reflects the current ratings assigned to our senior, unsecured non-credit
enhanced long-term debt and commercial paper issued directly by us by each of
these agencies: 

NAME OF 
 RATING AGENCY  

COMMERCIAL 
 PAPER  

LONG-TERM DEBT  

DATE OF LAST 
 ACTION  

RATING  

OUTLOOK  

Moody s  

P-1  

Aa1  

Negative  

October 2007  

S P  

A1+  

AAA  

Negative  

December 2006  

On October 19, 2007, Moody s affirmed
our Aa1 rating, its second-highest investment grade rating, but revised our
ratings outlook to negative from stable. Moody s cited: (i) our announcement on
October 18, 2007, related to recorded charges totaling $2.8 billion ($2.1
billion, net of tax), associated with the impairment of Exubera assets and
other exit costs associated with Exubera (see the  Our 2007 Performance:
Decision to Exit Exubera  section of this Financial Review); (ii) continuing
pressure on U.S. Lipitor sales and market share; and (iii) the loss of U.S.
exclusivity for Lipitor in either 2010 or 2011. The negative outlook reflects
Moody s assessment of challenges we face as we head into the 2010-2012 period
when the U.S. patents on certain key products expire. 

Our access to financing at favorable
rates would be affected by a substantial downgrade in our credit ratings.  

   Debt Capacity   We have available lines of credit and
revolving-credit agreements with a group of banks and other financial
intermediaries. We maintain cash and cash equivalent balances and short-term
investments in excess of our commercial paper and other short-term borrowings.
As of December 31, 2007, we had access to $3.7 billion of lines of credit, of
which $1.5 billion expire within one year. Of these lines of credit, $3.6
billion are unused, of which our lenders have committed to loan us $2.1 billion
at our request. $2.0 billion of the unused lines of credit, which expire in
2012, may be used to support our commercial paper borrowings.  

  In March 2007, we filed a securities
registration statement with the SEC. This registration statement was filed
under the automatic shelf registration process available to well-known seasoned
issuers and is effective for three years. We can issue securities of various
types under that registration statement at any time, subject to approval by our
Board of Directors in certain circumstances.  

2007 Financial Report  |  29   

Financial Review  

Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies 

Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets    

As of December 31, 2007,  Goodwill  totaled $21.4 billion (19% of our
total assets) and other identifiable intangible assets, net of accumulated
amortization, totaled $20.5 billion (18% of our total assets).  

  The components of goodwill and other
identifiable intangible assets, by segment, as of December 31, 2007, follow: 

(a)    

Includes $16.6 billion related to
  developed technology rights and $565 million related to brands.  

(b)    

Includes $2.9 billion related to
  brands.  

Developed Technology
Rights     Developed technology rights represent the amortized value
associated with developed technology, which has been acquired from third
parties, and which can include the right to develop, use, market, sell and/or
offer for sale the product, compounds and intellectual property that we have
acquired with respect to products, compounds and/or processes that have been
completed. We possess a well-diversified portfolio of hundreds of developed
technology rights across therapeutic categories, primarily representing the
amortized value of the commercialized products included in our Pharmaceutical
segment that we acquired in connection with our Pharmacia acquisition in 2003.
While the Arthritis and Pain therapeutic category represents about 30% of the
total amortized value of developed technology rights as of December 31, 2007,
the balance of the amortized value is evenly distributed across the following
Pharmaceutical therapeutic product categories: Ophthalmology; Oncology;
Urology; Infectious and Respiratory Diseases; Endocrine Disorders categories;
and, as a group, Cardiovascular and Metabolic Diseases; Central Nervous System
Disorders and All Other categories. The significant components include values
determined for Celebrex, Detrol/Detrol LA, Xalatan, Genotropin, Zyvox, and
Campto/Camptosar. Also included in this category are the post-approval milestone
payments made under our alliance agreements for certain Pharmaceutical
products, such as Rebif and Spiriva. These rights are all subject to our
impairment review process explained in the  Accounting Policies: Long-Lived
Assets  section of this Financial Review.   

  In 2007, we recorded a charge of $1.1
billion for the impairment of intangible assets (primarily developed technology
rights) associated with Exubera. See the  Our 2007 Performance: Decision to
Exit Exubera  section of this Financial Review.  

   Brands     Significant
components of brands include values determined for Depo-Provera contraceptive,
Xanax and Medrol.   

  In 2006, we recorded impairment
charges of approximately $320 million related to the Depo-Provera brand (see
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note
7. Other (Income)/ Deductions   Net).   

Selected
  Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources   

The following table sets forth
  certain relevant measures of our liquidity and capital resources as of
  December 31:  

(a)    

Working capital includes assets
  held for sale of $114 million as of December 31, 2007, and $62 million as of
  December 31, 2006. Working capital also includes liabilities held for sale of
  nil as of December 31, 2007, and $2 million as of December 31, 2006.  

(b)    

Represents total shareholders 
  equity divided by the actual number of common shares outstanding (which
  excludes treasury shares and those held by our employee benefit trust).  

Working capital and the ratio of current assets to current
  liabilities in 2007 were comparable to 2006, primarily due to:  

inventory write-offs ($661 million) related to Exubera (See
  the  Our 2007 Performance: Decision to Exit Exubera  section of this
  Financial Review), as well as liabilities of $375 million accrued in connection with
  this decision;  

an increase in  Other
  current liabilities  related to our cost-reduction initiatives of
  $702 million; and  

the funding of share purchases, dividends and capital
  expenditures in part through the use of the proceeds from the redemption of
  short-term investments and the use of short-term borrowings,  

offset by:  

the reclassification to noncurrent of certain amounts
  associated with uncertain tax positions of about $3.6 billion ($4.0 billion
  upon adoption on January 1, 2007, of a new accounting standard, partially
  offset by $0.4 billion of activity in 2007).  

Summary of Cash Flows  

30     |      2007 Financial
Report    

Financial Review  

Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies 

Operating
Activities   

Our net cash provided by continuing
operating activities was $13.4 billion in 2007, compared to $17.6 billion in
2006. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily
attributable to:  

higher tax payments ($2.2 billion) in 2007, related
  primarily to the gain on the sale of our Consumer Healthcare business in
  December 2006; and  

the timing of other receipts and payments in the ordinary
  course of business.  

Our net cash provided by continuing operating activities
  was $17.6 billion in 2006, compared to $14.7 billion in 2005. The increase in
  net cash provided by operating activities was primarily attributable to:  

the payment of $1.7 billion in taxes in 2005 associated
  with the repatriation of approximately $37 billion of foreign earnings under
  the Jobs Act in 2005; and  

the timing of other receipts and payments in the ordinary
  course of business.  

In 2007 and 2006, the cash flow line
item called  Income taxes payable  primarily
reflects the taxes provided in 2006 on the gain on the sale of our Consumer
Healthcare business that were paid in 2007.  

    Investing
Activities    

  Our net cash provided by investing
activities was $795 million in 2007, compared to $5.1 billion in 2006. The
decrease in net cash provided by investing activities was primarily
attributable to:  

lower net sales and redemptions of investments in 2007 (a negative
  change in cash and cash equivalents of $6.1 billion),  

partially offset by:  

the acquisitions of BioRexis and Embrex in 2007, compared
  to the acquisitions of PowderMed, Rinat and sanofi-aventis  rights associated
  with Exubera in 2006 (a decreased use of cash of $1.9 billion).  

Our net cash provided by investing activities was $5.1
  billion in 2006, compared to net cash used by investing activities of $5.1
  billion in 2005. The increase in net cash provided by investing activities
  was primarily attributable to:  

higher net sales and redemptions of short-term investments in 2006
  (an increased source of cash of $12.4 billion), primarily used to pay down
  short-term borrowings,  

partially offset by:  

an increase in net purchases of long-term investments (an
  increased use of cash of $2.3 billion); and  

the acquisitions of PowderMed, Rinat and sanofi-aventis 
  rights to Exubera in 2006, compared to the acquisitions of Vicuron and Idun
  in 2005 (an increased use of cash of $216 million).  

Financing
Activities    

  Our net cash used in financing activities
was $12.6 billion in 2007, compared to $23.1 billion in 2006. The decrease in
net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to:  

In June 2005, we announced a $5
billion share-purchase program, which is primarily being funded by operating
cash flows and a portion of the proceeds from the sale of our Consumer
Healthcare business. In June 2006, the Board of Directors increased our
share-purchase authorization from $5 billion to $18 billion. In total, under
the June 2005 program, through December 31, 2007, we purchased approximately
683 million shares for approximately $17.5 billion.  

  In October 2004, we announced a $5
billion share-purchase program, which we completed in the second quarter of
2005 and was funded from operating cash flows. In total, under the October 2004
program, we purchased approximately 185 million shares.  

  In January 2008, we announced a new
$5 billion share-purchase program, which will be funded by operating cash
flows as circumstances and prices warrant.  

  A summary of common stock purchases
follows: 

2007 Financial Report  |  31   

Financial Review  

Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies 

Contractual Obligations    

  Payments due under contractual
obligations as of December 31, 2007, mature as follows:  

(a)  

Our long-term debt obligations include both our expected principal and interest obligations. Our calculations of expected interest payments
incorporates only current period assumptions for interest rates, foreign currency translations rates and hedging strategies. (See    Note 10. Financial Instruments.   ) Long-term
debt consists of senior, unsecured notes, floating rate, unsecured notes, foreign currency denominated notes, and other borrowings and mortgages.  

(b)  

Includes expected payments
  relating to our unfunded U.S. supplemental (non-qualified) pension plans,
  postretirement plans and deferred compensation plans.  

(c)  

Includes operating and capital
  lease obligations.  

(d)  

Purchase obligations represent
  agreements to purchase goods and services that are enforceable and legally
  binding and include amounts relating to advertising, information technology
  services and employee benefit administration services.  

(e)  

Reflects the adoption as of
  January 1, 2007, of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
  Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48),  Accounting
  for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of SFAS 109, Accounting
  for Income Taxes , and supplemented by FASB Financial Staff
  Position FIN 48-1,  Definition of
  Settlement of FASB Interpretation No. 48 , issued May 2, 2007, (see
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 1D. Significant Accounting
  Policies: New Accounting Standards ). Except for amounts reflected in  Income taxes payable , we are unable to
  predict the timing of tax settlements, as tax audits can involve complex
  issues and the resolution of those issues may span multiple years,
  particularly if subject to negotiation or litigation.  

In 2008, we expect to spend
approximately $2.0 billion on property, plant and equipment.  

   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   

  In the ordinary course of business
and in connection with the sale of assets and businesses, we often indemnify
our counterparties against certain liabilities that may arise in connection
with a transaction or that are related to activities prior to a transaction.
These indemnifications typically pertain to environmental, tax, employee and/or
product-related matters, and patent infringement claims. If the indemnified
party were to make a successful claim pursuant to the terms of the
indemnification, we would be required to reimburse the loss. These
indemnifications are generally subject to threshold amounts, specified claim
periods and other restrictions and limitations. Historically, we have not paid
significant amounts under these provisions and, as of December 31, 2007,
recorded amounts for the estimated fair value of these indemnifications are not
significant.  

  Certain of our co-promotion or
license agreements give our licensors or partners the rights to negotiate for,
or in some cases to obtain, under certain financial conditions, co-promotion or

other rights in specified countries with respect to certain of our products.  

   Dividends on Common Stock   

  We declared dividends of $8.2 billion
in 2007 and $7.3 billion in 2006 on our common stock. In 2007, we increased our
annual dividend to $1.16 per share from $0.96 per share in 2006. In December
2007, our Board of Directors declared a first-quarter 2008 dividend of $0.32
per share. The 2008 cash dividend marks the 41st consecutive year of dividend
increases.  

  Our current dividend provides a
return to shareholders while maintaining sufficient capital to invest in
growing our businesses. Our dividends are funded from operating cash flows, our
financial asset portfolio and short-term commercial paper borrowings and are
not restricted by debt covenants. To the extent we have additional capital in
excess of investment opportunities, we typically offer a return to our
shareholders through a stock-purchase program. We believe that our
profitability and access to financial markets provide sufficient capability for
us to pay current and future dividends.  

   New Accounting Standards   

   Recently Adopted Accounting Standards   

  As of January 1, 2007, we adopted FIN
48, which provides guidance on the recognition, derecognition and measurement
of tax positions for financial statement purposes. Prior to 2007, our policy
had been to account for income tax contingencies based on whether we determined
our tax position to be  probable  under current tax law of being sustained, as
well as an analysis of potential outcomes under a given set of facts and
circumstances. FIN 48 requires that tax positions be sustainable based on a
 more likely than not  standard of benefit recognition under current tax law,
and adjusted to reflect the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50%
likely of being realized upon settlement, presuming that the tax position is
examined by the appropriate taxing authority that has full knowledge of all
relevant information. As a result of the implementation of FIN 48, we reduced
our existing liabilities for uncertain tax positions by approximately $11
million, which has been recorded as a direct adjustment to the opening balance
of  Retained earnings , and changed
the classification of virtually all amounts associated with uncertain tax
positions, including the associated accrued interest, from current to
noncurrent, as of the date of adoption.  

   Recently Issued Accounting Standards, Not Adopted as of December 31, 2007   

  In September 2006, the FASB issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157 (SFAS 157),  Fair Value Measurements . SFAS 157 provides
guidance for, among other things, the definition of fair value and the methods
used to measure fair value. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff
Position (FSP) 157-2  Effective Date of FASB
Statement No. 157.  Under the terms of FSP 157-2, the provisions of
SFAS 157 will be adopted for financial instruments in 2008 and, when required,
for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities in 2009 (except for those
that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a
recurring basis). We do not expect that the provisions to be adopted in 2008
will have a significant impact on our financial statements and we are in the
process of evaluating the impact of provisions to be adopted in 2009.  

32     |      2007 Financial
Report    

Financial Review  

Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies 

In December 2007, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 141(R),  Business Combinations .
(SFAS 141(R) replaced SFAS No. 141,  Business
Combinations , originally issued in June 2001.) SFAS 141(R) retains
the purchase method of accounting for acquisitions, but requires a number of
changes, including changes in the way assets and liabilities are recognized in
purchase accounting. It also changes the recognition of assets acquired and
liabilities assumed arising from contingencies, requires the capitalization of
in-process research and development at fair value, and requires the expensing
of acquisition-related costs as incurred. Generally, SFAS 141(R) is effective
on a prospective basis for all business combinations completed on or after
January 1, 2009. We are currently in the process of evaluating the extent of
those potential impacts. 

In December 2007, the FASB issued
SFAS 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in
Consolidated Financial Statements , an amendment of ARB 51,  Consolidated Financial Statements . SFAS
160 provides guidance for the accounting, reporting and disclosure of
noncontrolling interests, also called minority interest. A minority interest
represents the portion of equity (net assets) in a subsidiary not attributable,
directly or indirectly, to a parent. The provisions of SFAS 160 will be adopted
in 2009. The provisions of SFAS 160 will impact our current accounting for
minority interests, which are not significant, and will impact our accounting
for future acquisitions, if any, where we do not acquire 100% of the entity. We
are currently in the process of evaluating the extent of those potential
impacts.  

  In December 2007, the Emerging Issues
Task Force (EITF) issued EITF Issue No. 07-1,  Accounting
for Collaborative Arrangements . EITF 07-1 provides guidance
concerning: determining whether an arrangement constitutes a collaborative
arrangement within the scope of the Issue; how costs incurred and revenue
generated on sales to third parties should be reported in the income statement;
how an entity should characterize payments on the income statement; and what
participants should disclose in the notes to the financial statements about a
collaborative arrangement. The provisions of EITF 07-1 will be adopted in 2009.
We are in the process of evaluating the impact of adopting EITF 07-1 on our
financial statements.  

  In June 2007, the EITF issued EITF
Issue No. 07-3,  Accounting for Nonrefundable
Advance Payments for Goods or Services to be Used in Future Research and
Development Activities.  EITF Issue No. 07-3 provides guidance concerning
the accounting for non-refundable advance payments for goods and services that
will be used in future R D activities and requires that they be expensed
when the research and development activity has been performed and not at the
time of payment. The provisions of EITF Issue No. 07-3 will be adopted in 2008.
We do not expect that the adoption of EITF Issue No. 07-3 will have a
significant impact on our financial statements.  

   Forward-Looking Information and Factors 
That May Affect Future Results   

  The Securities and Exchange
Commission encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that
investors can better understand a company s future prospects and make informed
investment decisions. This report and other written or oral statements that we
make from time to time contain such forward-looking statements that set forth
anticipated results based   

on management s plans and assumptions. Such
forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. We have
tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as
 will,   anticipate,   estimate,   expect,   project,   intend, 
 plan, 
 believe,   target,   forecast  and other words and terms of similar meaning in
connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance or
business plans and prospects. In particular, these include statements relating
to future actions, business plans and prospects, prospective products or
product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products,
sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of
contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results. Among the
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the following:  

Success of research and development activities;  

Decisions by regulatory authorities regarding whether and
  when to approve our drug applications as well as their decisions regarding
  labeling and other matters that could affect the availability or commercial potential
  of our products;  

Speed with which regulatory authorizations, pricing
  approvals and product launches may be achieved;  

Success of external business development activities;  

Competitive developments, including with respect to competitor
  drugs and drug candidates that treat diseases and conditions similar to those
  treated by our in-line drugs and drug candidates;  

Ability to successfully market both new and existing
  products domestically and internationally;  

Difficulties or delays in manufacturing;  

Trade buying patterns;  

Ability to meet generic and branded competition after the
  loss of patent protection for our products and competitor products;  

Impact of existing and future legislation and regulatory
  provisions on product exclusivity;  

Trends toward managed care and healthcare cost
  containment;  

U.S. legislation or regulatory action affecting, among
  other things, pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement or access,
  including under Medicaid and Medicare, the importation of prescription drugs
  from outside the U.S. at prices that are regulated by governments of various
  foreign countries, and the involuntary approval of prescription medicines for
  over-the-counter use;  

Impact of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and
  Modernization Act of 2003;  

Legislation or regulatory action in markets outside the
  U.S. affecting pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement or access;  

Contingencies related to actual or alleged environmental
  contamination;  

2007 Financial Report  |  33   

Financial Review   
 Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  

Claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety or
  efficacy of in-line products and product candidates;  

Significant breakdown, infiltration or interruption of our
  information technology systems and infrastructure;  

Legal defense costs, insurance expenses, settlement costs
  and the risk of an adverse decision or settlement related to product
  liability, patent protection, governmental investigations, ongoing efforts to
  explore various means for resolving asbestos litigation, and other legal
  proceedings;  

Ability to protect our patents and other intellectual
  property both domestically and internationally;  

Interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate
  fluctuations;  

Governmental laws and regulations affecting domestic and
  foreign operations, including tax obligations;  

Changes in generally accepted accounting principles;  

Any changes in business, political and economic conditions
  due to the threat of terrorist activity in the U.S. and other parts of the
  world, and related U.S. military action overseas;  

Growth in costs and expenses;  

Changes in our product, segment and geographic mix; and  

Impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings,
  product withdrawals and other unusual items, including our ability to realize
  the projected benefits of our cost-reduction initiatives.  

We cannot guarantee that any
forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been
prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of anticipated results is
subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should
known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying
assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past
results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear
this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements.  

  We undertake no obligation to publicly
update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information,
future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further
disclosures we make on related subjects in our Forms 10-Q, 8-K and 10-K reports
to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

  Certain risks, uncertainties and
assumptions are discussed here and under the heading entitled  Risk Factors and
Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results  in Item 1A of our Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, which will be filed
in February 2008. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it
is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you
should not consider any such list to be a complete set of all potential risks
or uncertainties.  

  This report includes discussion of
certain clinical studies relating to various in-line products and/or product
candidates. These studies typically are part of a larger body of clinical data
relating to such products or product candidates, and the discussion herein
should be considered in the context of the larger body of data.  

Financial Risk Management   

  The overall objective of our
financial risk management program is to seek a reduction in the potential
negative earnings effects from changes in foreign exchange and interest rates
arising in our business activities. We manage these financial exposures through
operational means and by using various financial instruments. These practices
may change as economic conditions change.  

   Foreign Exchange
Risk   A significant portion of our revenues and earnings is
exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. We seek to manage our foreign
exchange risk in part through operational means, including managing same
currency revenues in relation to same currency costs, and same currency assets
in relation to same currency liabilities.   

  Foreign exchange risk is also managed
through the use of foreign currency forward-exchange contracts. These contracts
are used to offset the potential earnings effects from mostly intercompany
short-term foreign currency assets and liabilities that arise from operations.
Foreign currency swaps are used to offset the potential earnings effects from
foreign currency debt. We also use foreign currency forward-exchange contracts
and foreign currency swaps to hedge the potential earnings effects from short
and long-term foreign currency investments, third-party loans and intercompany
loans.  

  In addition, under certain market
conditions, we protect against possible declines in the reported net assets of
our Japanese yen, Swedish krona and certain euro functional-currency
subsidiaries. In these cases, we use currency swaps or foreign currency debt.  

  Our financial instrument holdings at
year-end were analyzed to determine their sensitivity to foreign exchange rate
changes. The fair values of these instruments were determined as follows:  

foreign currency forward-exchange contracts and currency
  swaps net present values  

foreign receivables, payables, debt and loans changes in
  exchange rates  

In this sensitivity analysis, we
assumed that the change in one currency s rate relative to the U.S. dollar
would not have an effect on other currencies  rates relative to the U.S.
dollar. All other factors were held constant.  

  If there were an adverse change in
foreign exchange rates of 10%, the expected effect on net income related to our
financial instruments would be immaterial. For additional details, see Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 10D.
Financial Instruments: Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities.   

   Interest Rate Risk   Our U.S.
dollar interest-bearing investments, loans and borrowings are subject to
interest rate risk. We are also subject to interest rate risk on euro debt,
investments and currency swaps, Swedish krona currency swaps, and on Japanese
yen short and long-term borrowings and currency swaps. We invest, loan and
borrow primarily on a short-term or variable-rate basis. From time to time,
depending on market conditions, we will fix interest rates either through
entering into fixed-rate investments and borrowings or through the use of
derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps.    

34     |      2007 Financial
Report    

Financial Review  

Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies 

Our financial instrument holdings at
year-end were analyzed to determine their sensitivity to interest rate changes.
The fair values of these instruments were determined by net present values.  

  In this sensitivity analysis, we used
a one hundred basis point change (decreased 1% from the rate of the yield of
the financial instrument) in interest rates for all maturities. All other
factors were held constant. This represents a change in the key model
characteristic from last year. The change was made to better reflect the
potential impact of a significant change in interest rates. Applying this new
model characteristic to our financial instruments last year had no material
effect.  

  In 2007 and 2006, if there were an
adverse change of one hundred basis points in interest rates, the expected
effect on net income related to our financial instruments would be immaterial.  

   Legal Proceedings and Contingencies   

  We and certain of our subsidiaries
are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial,
securities, environmental and tax litigations and claims; government
investigations; and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the
ordinary course of our business. We do not believe any of them will have a
material adverse effect on our financial position.  

  Beginning in 2007 upon the adoption
of a new accounting standard, we record accruals for income tax contingencies
to the extent that we conclude that a tax position is not sustainable under a
 more likely than not  standard and we record our estimate of the potential tax
benefits in one tax jurisdiction that could result from the payment of income
taxes in another tax jurisdiction when we conclude that the potential recovery
is more likely than not. (See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 1D. Significant Accounting Policies: New
Accounting Standards  and  Note 8E.
Taxes on Income: Tax Contingencies. ) We record accruals for all
other contingencies to the extent that we conclude their occurrence is probable
and the related damages are estimable, and we record anticipated recoveries
under existing insurance contracts when assured of recovery. If a range of
liability is probable and estimable and some amount within the range appears to
be a better estimate than any other amount within the range, we accrue that
amount. If a range of liability is probable and estimable and no amount within
the range appears to be a better estimate than any other amount within the
range, we accrue the minimum of such probable range. Many claims involve highly
complex issues relating to causation, label warnings, scientific evidence,
actual damages and other matters. Often these issues are subject to substantial
uncertainties and, therefore, the probability of loss and an estimation of
damages are difficult to ascertain. Consequently, we cannot reasonably estimate
the maximum potential exposure or the range of possible loss in excess of
amounts accrued for these contingencies. These assessments can involve a series
of complex judgments about future events and can rely heavily on estimates and
assumptions (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 1B. Significant Accounting Policies: Estimates
and Assumptions ). Our assessments are based on estimates and
assumptions that have been deemed reasonable by management. Litigation is
inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. Although we believe
we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future incur
judgments or enter into   

settlements of claims that could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period.  

  Patent claims include challenges to
the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes.
Although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with
respect to all our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the
outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a
loss of patent protection for the drug at issue, which could lead to a
significant loss of sales of that drug and could materially affect future
results of operations.  

2007 Financial Report  |  35   

Management s Report on Internal Control   

Audit Committee s Report    

Over Financial Reporting   

Management s Report   

  We prepared and are responsible for
the financial statements that appear in our 2007 Financial Report. These
financial statements are in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America and, therefore, include amounts based
on informed judgments and estimates. We also accept responsibility for the
preparation of other financial information that is included in this document.  

   Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   

  The management of the Company is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company s internal control over financial
reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the
United States of America. The Company s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that: (i) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (ii)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and
directors of the Company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition
of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.   Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk
that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Management
assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2007. In making this assessment, management used
the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission in Internal Control-Integrated Framework. Based on our
assessment and those criteria, management believes that the Company maintained
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007.  

  The Company s independent auditors
have issued their auditors  report on the Company s internal control over
financial reporting. That report appears in our 2007 Financial Report under the
heading,  Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.   

Jeffrey B. Kindler  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  

Frank A. D Amelio   

Loretta V. Cangialosi   

Principal Financial Officer  

Principal Accounting Officer  

February 29, 2008   

The Audit Committee reviews the
Company s financial reporting process on behalf of the Board of Directors.
Management has the primary responsibility for the financial statements and the
reporting process, including the system of internal controls.   In this context,
the Committee has met and held discussions with management and the independent
registered public accounting firm regarding the fair and complete presentation
of the Company s results and the assessment of the Company s internal control
over financial reporting. The Committee has discussed significant accounting
policies applied by the Company in its financial statements, as well as
alternative treatments. Management represented to the Committee that the
Company s consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and
the Committee has reviewed and discussed the consolidated financial statements
with management and the independent registered public accounting firm. The
Committee discussed with the independent registered public accounting firm
matters required to be discussed by Statement of Auditing Standards No. 61,  Communication with Audit
Committees.   

  In addition, the Committee has
reviewed and discussed with the independent registered public accounting firm
the auditors  independence from the Company and its management. As part of that
review, the Committee received the written disclosures and letter required by
the Independence Standards Board Standard No. 1,  Independence Discussions with Audit Committees  and by all
relevant professional and regulatory standards relating to KPMG s independence
from the Company. The Committee also has considered whether the independent
registered public accounting firm s provision of non-audit services to the
Company is compatible with the auditors  independence. The Committee has
concluded that the independent registered public accounting firm is independent
from the Company and its management.  

  The Committee reviewed and discussed
Company policies with respect to risk assessment and risk management.  

  The Committee discussed with the
Company s internal auditors and the independent registered public accounting
firm the overall scope and plans for their respective audits. The Committee met
with the internal auditors and the independent registered public accounting
firm, with and without management present, to discuss the results of their
examinations, the evaluations of the Company s internal controls, and the
overall quality of the Company s financial reporting.  

  In reliance on the reviews and discussions
referred to above, the Committee recommended to the Board of Directors, and the
Board has approved, that the audited financial statements be included in the
Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, for
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Committee has selected
and the Board of Directors has ratified, subject to shareholder ratification,
the selection of the Company s independent registered public accounting firm.  

W. Don Cornwell 
  Chair, Audit Committee   

   February 29, 2008   

   The Audit
Committee s Report shall not be deemed to be filed or incorporated by reference
into any Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except to the extent that the
Company specifically incorporates the Audit Committee s Report by reference
therein.   

36     |      2007
Financial Report    

Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the 
Consolidated Financial Statements   

The Board of
Directors and Shareholders of Pfizer Inc:   

  We have audited the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets of Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies as of
December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income,
shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2007. These consolidated financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.  

  We conducted our audits in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.  

  In our opinion, the consolidated
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies as of
December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2007,
in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  

  We also have audited, in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States), the effectiveness of Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria
established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report
dated February 29, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effective
operation of the Company s internal control over financial reporting.  

As discussed in the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 1D.
Significant Accounting Policies: New Accounting Standards,  effective
January 1, 2007, Pfizer Inc adopted the provisions of Financial Accounting
Standards Board Interpretation (FASB) No. 48,  Accounting
for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of SFAS 109, Accounting for
Income Taxes,  and supplemented by FASB Financial Staff Position FIN
48-1,  Definition of Settlement in FASB
Interpretation No. 48,  issued May 2, 2007.  

  As discussed in the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 1D.
Significant Accounting Policies: New Accounting Standards,  effective
January 1, 2006, Pfizer Inc adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 123R,  Share-Based
Payment .  

  As discussed in the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 1D.
Significant Accounting Policies: New Accounting Standards,  effective
December 31, 2006, Pfizer Inc adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 158,  Employers 
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans (an
amendment of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statements No. 87, 88, 106
and 132R) .  

  As discussed in the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 1D.
Significant Accounting Policies: New Accounting Standards,  effective
December 31, 2005, Pfizer Inc adopted the provisions of Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 47 (FIN 47),  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
Obligations (an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143) .  

KPMG LLP 
  New York, New York   

   February 29, 2008   

2007 Financial Report  |  37   

Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on 
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   

The Board of
Directors and Shareholders of Pfizer Inc:   

  We have audited the internal control
over financial reporting of Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies as of December
31, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO). Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  

  We conducted our audit in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial
reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining
an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the
risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control, based on risk assessment. Our
audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary
in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for
our opinion.  

  A company s internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial  

statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  

  Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures
may deteriorate.  

  In our opinion, Pfizer Inc and
Subsidiary Companies maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria
established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  

  We also have audited, in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States), the consolidated balance sheets of Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies
as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of
income, shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 2007, and our report dated February 29,
2008 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial
statements.  

KPMG LLP 
  New York, New York   

   February 29, 2008   

38  |  2007 Financial Report   

Consolidated
Statements of Income    
   Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

(a)  

Exclusive of amortization of
 intangible assets, except as disclosed in  Note
 1K. Amortization of Intangible Assets, Depreciation and Certain Long-Lived
 Assets.   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, which are an integral part of these statements.  

   2007 Financial Report  |  39   

Consolidated
Balance Sheets   
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, which are an integral part of these statements. 

40  |  2007
Financial Report   

Consolidated
Statements of Shareholders  Equity    Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, which are an integral part of these statements.  

   2007 Financial Report  |  41   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  

(a)    

Reflects portion of proceeds
  received in the form of short-term investments.  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, which are an integral part of these statements.  

   42  |  2007 Financial Report    

Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements    Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  

1   .     Significant Accounting
Policies    
   A. Consolidation and Basis of Presentation   

  The consolidated financial statements
include our parent company and all subsidiaries, including those operating outside
the U.S., and are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP). For subsidiaries
operating outside the U.S., the financial information is included as of and for
the year ended November 30 for each year presented. Substantially all
unremitted earnings of international subsidiaries are free of legal and
contractual restrictions. All significant transactions among our businesses
have been eliminated.  

  We made certain reclassifications
to the 2006 and 2005 consolidated financial statements to conform to the 2007
presentation, primarily related to presenting certain tax receivables in current assets.  

   B. Estimates and Assumptions   

  In preparing the consolidated
financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions that affect
reported amounts and disclosures. For example, estimates are used when
accounting for deductions from revenues (such as rebates, chargebacks, sales
returns and sales allowances), depreciation, amortization, employee benefits,
contingencies and asset and liability valuations. Our estimates are often based
on complex judgments, probabilities and assumptions that we believe to be
reasonable but that are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Assumptions may
later prove to be incomplete or inaccurate, or unanticipated events and circumstances
may occur that might cause us to change those estimates and assumptions. It is
also possible that other professionals, applying reasonable judgment to the
same facts and circumstances, could develop and support a range of alternative
estimated amounts. We are also subject to other risks and uncertainties that
may cause actual results to differ from estimated amounts, such as changes in
the healthcare environment, competition, foreign exchange, litigation,
legislation and regulations. These and other risks and uncertainties are
discussed in the accompanying Financial Review, which is unaudited, under the
headings  Our Operating Environment and Response to Key Opportunities and
Challenges  and  Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future
Results.   

   C. Contingencies   

  We and certain of our subsidiaries
are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial,
securities, environmental and tax litigations and claims; government
investigations; and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the
ordinary course of our business. Except for income tax contingencies, we record
accruals for contingencies to the extent that we conclude that their occurrence
is probable and that the related liabilities are estimable and we record
anticipated recoveries under existing insurance contracts when assured of
recovery. For tax matters, beginning in 2007 upon the adoption of a new
accounting standard, we record accruals for income tax contingencies to the
extent that we conclude that a tax position is not sustainable under a  more
likely than not  standard and we record our estimate of the potential tax
benefits in one tax jurisdiction that could result from the payment of income
taxes in another tax jurisdiction when we conclude that the potential recovery
is more likely than not. (See  Note 1D.
Significant   

Accounting
Policies: New Accounting Standards and Note 8E. Taxes on Income: Tax
Contingencies  .) We consider many factors in making these
assessments. Because litigation and other contingencies are inherently
unpredictable and excessive verdicts do occur, these assessments can involve a
series of complex judgments about future events and can rely heavily on
estimates and assumptions (see  Note 1B.
Significant Accounting Policies: Estimates and Assumptions ).   

   D. New Accounting Standards   

  As of January 1, 2007, we adopted
    the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation
    No. 48 (FIN 48),  Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of SFAS 109, Accounting for
Income Taxes,  and supplemented by FASB Financial Staff Position FIN
48-1,  Definition of Settlement in FASB
Interpretation No. 48 , issued May 2, 2007, and changed our policy
related to the accounting for income tax contingencies. To understand the
cumulative effect of these accounting changes, see  Note 8A. Taxes on Income:
Adoption of New Accounting Standard.  We
continue to account for income tax contingencies using a benefit recognition
model. Beginning January 1, 2007, if we consider that a tax position is  more
likely than not  of being sustained upon audit, based solely on the technical
merits of the position, we recognize the benefit. We measure the benefit by
determining the amount that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon
settlement, presuming that the tax position is examined by the appropriate
taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. Under the
benefit recognition model, if our initial assessment fails to result in the
recognition of a tax benefit, we regularly monitor our position and
subsequently recognize the tax benefit: (i) if there are changes in tax law or
analogous case law that sufficiently raise the likelihood of prevailing on the
technical merits of the position to more likely than not; (ii) if the statute
of limitations expires; or (iii) if there is a completion of an audit resulting
in a favorable settlement of that tax year with the appropriate agency. We
regularly reevaluate our tax positions based on the results of audits of federal,
state and foreign income tax filings, statute of limitations expirations, and
changes in tax law that would either increase or decrease the technical merits
of a position relative to the more likely than not standard. Liabilities
associated with uncertain tax positions are now classified as current only when
we expect to pay cash within the next 12 months. Interest and penalties, if
any, continue to be recorded in  Provision
for taxes on income  and are classified on the balance sheet with the
related tax liability. Prior to 2007, our policy had been to account for income
tax contingencies based on whether we determined our tax position to be
 probable  under current tax law of being sustained, as well as an
analysis of potential outcomes under a given set of facts and circumstances.
In addition, we previously considered all tax liabilities as current once the
associated tax year was under audit. 

On December 31, 2006, we adopted the
provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension
and
Other Postretirement Plans (an amendment of Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132R).  SFAS 158 requires
us to recognize on our balance sheet the difference between our benefit
obligations and any plan assets of our benefit plans. In  

2007 Financial Report  |  43    

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements   
 Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

addition, we are required to
recognize as part of other comprehensive income/(expense), net of taxes, gains
and losses due to differences between our actuarial assumptions and actual
experience (actuarial gains and losses) and any effects on prior service due to
plan amendments (prior service costs or credits) that arise during the period
and which are not yet recognized as net periodic benefit costs. At adoption
date, we recognized the previously unrecognized actuarial gains and losses,
prior service costs or credits and net transition amounts within  Accumulated other comprehensive income/(expense),  net
of tax (see  Note 14. Pension and
Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans ).  

  On January 1, 2006, we adopted the
provisions of SFAS No. 123R,  Share-Based
Payment , as supplemented by the interpretation provided by SEC Staff
Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 107, issued in March 2005. (SFAS 123R replaced
SFAS 123,  Stock-Based Compensation ,
issued in 1995.) We elected the modified prospective application transition
method of adoption and, as such, prior-period financial statements were not
restated for this change. Under this method, the fair value of all stock
options granted or modified after adoption must be recognized in the
consolidated statement of income. Total compensation cost related to nonvested
awards not yet recognized, determined under the original provisions of SFAS
123, must also be recognized in the consolidated statement of income. The
adoption of SFAS 123R primarily impacted our accounting for stock options (see  Note 16. Share-Based Payments ). Prior to
January 1, 2006, we accounted for stock options under Accounting Principles
Board Opinion (APB) No. 25,  Accounting for
Stock Issued to Employees , an elective accounting policy permitted
by SFAS 123. Under this standard, since the exercise price of our stock options
granted is set equal to the market price of Pfizer common stock on the date of
the grant, we did not record any expense to the consolidated statement of
income related to stock options, unless certain original grant date terms were
subsequently modified. However, as required, we disclosed, in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, the pro forma expense impact of the stock
option grants as if we had applied the fair-value-based recognition provisions
of SFAS 123.  

  As of December 31, 2005, we adopted
the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 47 (FIN 47),  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
Obligations (an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143).  FIN 47
clarifies that conditional obligations meet the definition of an asset retirement
obligation in SFAS No. 143,    Accounting for
Asset Retirement Obligations  , and therefore should be recognized
if their fair value is reasonably estimable. As a result of adopting FIN 47, we
recorded a non-cash pre-tax charge of $40 million ($23 million, net of tax).
This charge was reported in  Cumulative
effect of a change in accounting principles net of tax  in the fourth
quarter of 2005. In accordance with these standards, we record accruals for
legal obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets,
including obligations under the doctrine of promissory estoppel and those that
are conditional upon the occurrence of future events. We recognize these
obligations using management s best estimate of fair value.   

E. Acquisitions   

  Our consolidated financial statements
and results of operations reflect an acquired business after the completion of
the acquisition and are not restated. We account for acquired businesses using
the purchase method of accounting, which requires that the assets acquired and
the liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of acquisition at their
respective fair values. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated
fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Amounts
allocated to acquired in-process research and development (IPR D) are
expensed at the date of acquisition. When we acquire net assets that do not
constitute a business under U.S. GAAP, no goodwill is recognized.  

   F. Foreign Currency Translation   

  For most international operations, local
currencies have been determined to be the functional currencies. The effects of
converting non-functional currency assets and liabilities into the functional
currency are recorded in  Other
(income)/deductions net . We translate functional currency assets and
liabilities to their U.S. dollar equivalents at rates in effect at the balance
sheet date and record these translation adjustments in  Shareholders  equity Accumulated other comprehensive
income/(expense) . We translate functional currency statement of
income amounts at average rates for the period.  

  For operations in highly inflationary
economies, we translate monetary items at rates in effect at the balance sheet
date, with translation adjustments recorded in  Other
(income)/deductions net , and nonmonetary items at historical rates.  

   G. Revenues   

   Revenue Recognition   We record
revenues from product sales when the goods are shipped and title passes to the
customer. At the time of sale, we also record estimates for a variety of sales
deductions, such as sales rebates, discounts and incentives, and product
returns. When we cannot reasonably estimate the amount of future product
returns, we record revenues when the risk of product return has been
substantially eliminated.   

   Deductions from
Revenues   Gross product sales are subject to a variety of deductions
that are generally estimated and recorded in the same period that the revenues
are recognized.   

  In the U.S., we record provisions for
Medicaid, Medicare and contract rebates based upon our actual experience ratio of
rebates paid and actual prescriptions during prior quarters. We apply the
experience ratio to the respective period s sales to determine the rebate
accrual and related expense. This experience ratio is evaluated regularly to
ensure that the historical trends are as current as practicable. As
appropriate, we will adjust the ratio to better match our current experience or
our expected future experience. In assessing this ratio, we consider current
contract terms, such as changes in formulary status and discount rates.  

  Outside the U.S., the majority of our
rebates are contractual or legislatively mandated and our estimates are based
on actual invoiced sales within each period; both of these elements help to
reduce the risk of variations in the estimation process. Some European
countries base their rebates on the government s unbudgeted pharmaceutical
spending and we use an estimated allocation factor based on historical payments
against our actual  

44  |  2007
Financial Report    

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements   
 Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

invoiced sales to project the
expected level of reimbursement. We obtain third-party information that helps
us to monitor the adequacy of these accruals.  

  Our provisions for chargebacks
(primarily reimbursements to wholesalers for honoring contracted prices to
third parties) closely approximate actual, as we settle these deductions
generally within two to three weeks of incurring the liability.  

  We record sales allowances as a
reduction of revenues at the time the related revenues are recorded or when the
allowance is offered, whichever is later. We estimate the cost of our sales
incentives based on our historical experience with similar incentive programs.  

  Our accruals for Medicaid rebates,
Medicare rebates, performance-based contract rebates and chargebacks were $1.2
billion as of December 31, 2007, and $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2006.  

  Taxes collected from customers and
remitted to governmental authorities are presented on a net basis; that is,
they are excluded from revenues.  

   Alliances  We have agreements to
co-promote pharmaceutical products discovered by other companies. Revenues are
earned when our co-promotion partners ship the related product and title passes
to their customer. Alliance revenues are primarily based upon a percentage of
our co-promotion partners  net sales. Expenses for selling and marketing these
products are included in  Selling,
informational and administrative expenses .   

   H. Cost of Sales and Inventories   

  We value inventories at cost or fair
value, if lower. Cost is determined as follows:  

finished goods and work in process at average actual cost;
  and  

raw materials and supplies at average or latest actual
  cost.  

I. Selling, Informational and Administrative Expenses   

  Selling, informational and
administrative costs are expensed as incurred. Among other things, these
expenses include the costs of marketing, advertising, shipping and handling,
information technology and non-plant employee compensation.  

  Advertising expenses relating to
production costs are expensed as incurred and the costs of radio time,
television time and space in publications are expensed when the related
advertising occurs. Advertising expenses totaled approximately $2.7 billion in
2007, $2.6 billion in 2006 and $2.7 billion in 2005.  

   J. Research and Development Expenses   

  Research and development (R D)
costs are expensed as incurred. These expenses include the costs of our
proprietary R D efforts, as well as costs incurred in connection with our
third-party collaboration efforts. Before a compound receives regulatory
approval, we record milestone payments made by us to third parties under
contracted R D arrangements as expense when the specific milestone has been
achieved. Once a compound receives regulatory approval, we record any
subsequent milestone payments in  Identifiable
intangible assets, less accumulated amortization  and, unless the
assets are determined to have an indefinite life, we amortize them evenly over
the remaining   

agreement term or the expected product life cycle, whichever is
shorter.  

   K. Amortization of Intangible Assets, Depreciation and Certain Long-Lived
Assets  

Long-lived assets include: 

Goodwill   Goodwill
  represents the excess of the purchase price of an acquired business over the
  fair value of its net assets. Goodwill is not amortized.   

Identifiable intangible assets, less
  accumulated amortization   These acquired assets are recorded
  at our cost. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized evenly over
  their estimated useful lives. Intangible assets with indefinite lives are not
  amortized.   

Property, plant and equipment, less
  accumulated depreciation   These assets are recorded at
  original cost and increased by the cost of any significant improvements after
  purchase. We depreciate the cost evenly over the assets  estimated useful
  lives. For tax purposes, accelerated depreciation methods are used as allowed
  by tax laws.   

Amortization expense related to
acquired intangible assets that contribute to our ability to sell, manufacture,
research, market and distribute products, compounds and intellectual property
are included in  Amortization of intangible
assets  as they benefit multiple business functions. Amortization
expense related to intangible assets that are associated with a single function
and depreciation of property, plant and equipment are included in  Cost of sales, Selling, informational and
administrative expenses and Research  and  development expenses,  as appropriate.  

  We review all of our long-lived
assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, for impairment
indicators at least annually and we perform detailed impairment testing for
goodwill and indefinite-lived assets annually and for all other long-lived
assets whenever impairment indicators are present. When necessary, we record
charges for impairments of long-lived assets for the amount by which the
present value of future cash flows, or some other fair value measure, is less
than the carrying value of these assets.  

   L. Acquisition-Related In-Process Research and Development Charges and
Restructuring Charges and Acquisition-Related Costs   

  When recording acquisitions (see  Note 1E. Significant Accounting Policies:
Acquisitions ), we immediately expense amounts related to acquired
IPR D in  Acquisition-related in-process
research and development charges .  

  We may incur restructuring charges in
connection with our cost-reduction initiatives, as well as in connection with
acquisitions, when we implement plans to restructure and integrate the acquired
operations. For restructuring charges associated with a business acquisition
that are identified in the first year after the acquisition date, the related
costs are recorded as additional goodwill because they are considered to be
liabilities assumed in the acquisition. All other restructuring charges, all
integration costs and any charges related to our pre-existing businesses
impacted by an acquisition are included in  Restructuring
charges and acquisition-related costs .  

2007 Financial Report  |  45    

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements     
   Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  

M. Cash Equivalents   

  Cash equivalents include items almost
as liquid as cash, such as certificates of deposit and time deposits with
maturity periods of three months or less when purchased. If items meeting this
definition are part of a larger investment pool, we classify them as  Short-term investments .  

   N. Investments   

  Realized gains or losses on sales of
investments are determined by using the specific identification cost method.  

   O. Income Tax Contingencies   

  We are subject to income tax in many
jurisdictions and a certain degree of estimation is required in recording the
assets and liabilities related to income taxes. For a description of our
accounting policy associated with accounting for income tax contingencies, see  Note 1D. Significant Accounting Policies: New
Accounting Standards . All of our tax positions are subject to audit
by the local taxing authorities in each tax jurisdiction. Tax audits can
involve complex issues and the resolution of issues may span multiple years,
particularly if subject to negotiation or litigations.  

   P. Share-Based Payments   

  Our compensation programs can include
share-based payments.  

  Beginning in 2006, all grants under
share-based payment programs are accounted for at fair value and these fair
values are generally amortized on an even basis over the vesting terms into
   Cost of sales,
Selling, informational and administrative expenses   and  Research and development expenses , as
appropriate. In 2005 and earlier years, grants under stock option and
performance-contingent share award programs were accounted for using the
intrinsic value method.   

   2.      Acquisitions    

  We are committed to capitalizing on
new growth opportunities, a strategy that can include acquisitions of
companies, products or technologies. During the three years ended December 31,
2007, 2006 and 2005, we acquired the following:  

In the first quarter of 2007, we acquired BioRexis
 Pharmaceutical Corp., (BioRexis) a privately held biopharmaceutical company
 with a number of diabetes candidates and a novel technology platform for
 developing new protein drug candidates, and Embrex, Inc., (Embrex) an animal
 health company that possesses a unique vaccine delivery system known as
 Inovoject that improves consistency and reliability by inoculating chicks
 while they are still in the egg. In connection with these and other smaller
 acquisitions, we recorded $283 million in  Acquisition-related
 in-process research and development charges .  

In February 2006, we completed the acquisition of the
 sanofi-aventis worldwide rights, including patent rights and production
 technology, to manufacture and sell Exubera, an inhaled form of insulin, and
 the insulin-production business and facilities located in Frankfurt, Germany,
 previously jointly owned by Pfizer and sanofi-aventis, for approximately $1.4
 billion (including transaction costs). Substantially all assets recorded in
 connection with this acquisition have now been written off. See  Note 4. Asset Impairment Charges and Other Costs
 Associated with Exiting Exubera . Prior to the acquisition,  

in connection with our collaboration agreement with
 sanofi-aventis, we recorded a research and development milestone due to us
 from sanofi-aventis of $118 million ($71 million, after tax) in 2006 in  Research and development expenses  upon
 the approval of Exubera in January 2006 by the U.S. Food and Drug
 Administration (FDA).  

In December 2006, we completed the acquisition of
 PowderMed Ltd. (PowderMed), a U.K. company which specializes in the emerging
 science of DNA-based vaccines for the treatment of influenza and chronic
 viral diseases, and in May 2006, we completed the acquisition of Rinat
 Neurosciences Corp. (Rinat), a biologics company with several new
 central-nervous-system product candidates. In 2006, the aggregate cost of
 these and other smaller acquisitions was approximately $880 million
 (including transaction costs). In connection with those transactions, we
 recorded $835 million in  Acquisition-related
 in-process research and development charges .  

In September 2005, we completed the acquisition of all of
 the outstanding shares of Vicuron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Vicuron), a
 biopharmaceutical company focused on the development of novel
 anti-infectives, for approximately $1.9 billion in cash (including
 transaction costs). In connection with the acquisition, as part of our final
 purchase price allocation, we recorded $1.4 billion in  Acquisition-related in-process research and
 development charges , and $243 million of  Goodwill , which has been allocated to
 our Pharmaceutical segment.  

In April 2005, we completed the acquisition of Idun
 Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Idun), a biopharmaceutical company focused on the
 discovery and development of therapies to control apoptosis, and in August
 2005, we completed the acquisition of Bioren Inc. (Bioren), which focuses on
 technology for optimizing antibodies. In 2005, the aggregate cost of these
 and other smaller acquisitions was approximately $340 million in cash
 (including transaction costs). In connection with these transactions, we
 recorded $262 million in  Acquisition-related
 in-process research and development charges .  

3.      Discontinued
Operations    

  We evaluate our businesses and
product lines periodically for strategic fit within our operations. Recent
activity includes:  

In the fourth quarter of 2006, we sold our Consumer
 Healthcare business for $16.6 billion, and recorded a gain of approximately
 $10.2 billion ($7.9 billion, net of tax) in  Gains
 on sales of discontinued operations net of tax  in the consolidated
 statement of income for 2006. In 2007, we recorded a loss of approximately
 $70 million, after-tax, primarily related to the resolution of contingencies,
 such as purchase price adjustments and product warranty obligations, as well
 as pension settlements. This business was composed of:  

o  

substantially all of our former Consumer Healthcare
 segment;  

o  

other associated amounts, such as purchase-accounting
 impacts, acquisition-related costs and restructuring and implementation costs
 related to our cost-reduction initiatives that were previously reported in
 the Corporate/Other segment; and  

46  |  2007
Financial Report    

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

o  

certain manufacturing facility assets and liabilities,
 which were previously part of our Pharmaceutical or Corporate/ Other segment
 but were included in the sale of our Consumer Healthcare business. The net
 impact to the Pharmaceutical segment was not significant.  

The results of this business are included in  Income from discontinued operations net of tax  for
 2006 and 2005.  

Legal title to certain assets and legal control of the
 business in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions did not transfer to the buyer on the
 closing date of December 20, 2006, because the satisfaction of specific local
 requirements was pending. These operations represented a small portion of our
 former Consumer Healthcare business and all of these transactions have now
 closed. In order to ensure that the buyer was placed in the same economic
 position as if the assets, operations and activities of those businesses had
 been transferred on the same date as the rest of the business, we entered
 into an agreement that passed the risks and rewards of ownership to the buyer
 from December 20, 2006. We treated these delayed-close businesses as sold for
 accounting purposes on December 20, 2006.  

We continued during 2007, and we will continue for a
 period of time, to generate cash flows and to report gross revenues, income
 and expense activity that are associated with our former Consumer Healthcare
 business, in continuing operations, although at a substantially reduced
 level. After the transfer of these activities, these cash flows and the
 income statement activity reported in continuing operations will be
 eliminated. The activities that give rise to these impacts are transitional
 in nature and generally result from agreements that ensure and facilitate the
 orderly transfer of business operations to the new owner. For example, we
 entered into a number of transition services agreements that allow the buyer
 sufficient time to prepare for the transfer of activities and to limit the
 risk of business disruption. The nature, magnitude and duration of the agreements
 vary depending on the specific circumstances of the service, location and/or
 business need. The agreements can include the following: manufacturing and
 product supply, logistics, customer service, support of financial processes,
 procurement, human resources, facilities management, data collection and
 information services. Most of these agreements extend for periods generally
 less than 24 months, but because of the inherent complexity of manufacturing
 processes and the risk of product flow disruption, the product supply
 agreements generally extend up to 36 months. Included in continuing
 operations for 2007 were the following amounts associated with these
 transition service agreements that will no longer occur after the full
 transfer of activities to the new owner:  Revenues
  of $219 million;  Cost of Sales  of
 $194 million;  Selling, informational and
 administrative expenses  of $15 million; and  Other (income)/deductions net  of $16
 million in income.  

None of these agreements confers upon us the ability to
 influence the operating and/or financial policies of the Consumer Healthcare
 business under its new ownership.  

In the third quarter of 2005, we sold the last of three
 European generic pharmaceutical businesses, which we had included in   

our Pharmaceutical segment, for 4.7 million euro
 (approximately $5.6 million). This business became a part of Pfizer in April
 2003 in connection with our acquisition of Pharmacia. We recorded a loss of
 $3 million ($2 million, net of tax) in  Gains
 on sales of discontinued operations net of tax  in the consolidated
 statement of income for 2005.  

In the first quarter of 2005, we sold the second of three
 European generic pharmaceutical businesses, which we had included in our
 Pharmaceutical segment, for 70 million euro (approximately $93 million). This
 business became a part of Pfizer in April 2003 in connection with our
 acquisition of Pharmacia. We recorded a gain of $57 million ($36 million, net
 of tax) in  Gains on sales of discontinued
 operations net of tax  in the consolidated statement of income for
 2005. In addition, we recorded an impairment charge of $9 million ($6
 million, net of tax) related to the third European generic business in  Income from discontinued operations net of tax  in
 the consolidated statement of income for 2005.  

The following amounts, primarily
related to our former Consumer Healthcare business, which was sold in December
2006 for $16.6 billion, have been segregated from continuing operations and
included in  Discontinued operations net of
tax  in the consolidated statements of income:  

Net cash flows of our discontinued
operations from each of the categories of operating, investing and financing
activities were not significant.  

   4.    Asset Impairment Charges and Other Costs Associated
with Exiting Exubera    

  In the third quarter of 2007, after
an assessment of the financial performance of Exubera, an inhalable form of
insulin for the treatment of diabetes, as well as its lack of acceptance by
patients, physicians and payers, we decided to exit the product.  

2007 Financial Report  |  47    

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

Our Exubera-related exit plans
included working with physicians over a three-month period to transition
patients to other treatment options, evaluating redeployment options for
colleagues, working with our partners and vendors with respect to transition
and exit activities, working with regulators on concluding outstanding clinical
trials, implementing an extended transition program for those patients unable
to transition to other medications within the three-month period, and exploring
asset disposal or redeployment opportunities, as appropriate, among other
activities.  

  As part of this exit plan, in 2007,
we paid $135 million to one of our partners in satisfaction of all remaining
obligations under existing agreements relating to Exubera and a next generation

insulin (NGI) under development. In addition,
in the event that a new partner is selected, we have agreed to transfer our
remaining rights and all economic benefits for Exubera and NGI This transfer of
our interests would include the transfer of the Exubera New Drug Application
and Investigational New Drug Applications and all non-U.S. regulatory filings
and applications, continuation of ongoing Exubera clinical trials and certain
supply chain transition activities.  

  Total pre-tax charges for 2007 were
$2.8 billion, virtually all of which were recorded in the third quarter. The
financial statement line items in which the various charges are recorded and
related activity are as follows:  

(a)    

Includes adjustments for foreign
 currency translation.  

(b)    

Amortization of these assets had
 previously been recorded in  Cost of sales  and
  Selling, informational and administrative
 expenses .  

(c)    

Included in  Other current liabilities  ($375 million)
 and  Other noncurrent liabilities  ($39
 million).  

The asset write-offs (intangibles,
inventory and fixed assets) represent non-cash charges. The other exit costs,
primarily severance, contract and other termination costs, as well as other
liabilities, are associated with marketing and research programs, and
manufacturing operations related to Exubera. These exit costs resulted in cash
expenditures in 2007 (such as the $135 million settlement referred to above)
and will result in additional cash expenditures in 2008. We expect that
substantially all of the cash spending will be completed within the next year.
As a result of exiting this product, certain additional cash costs will be
incurred and reported in future periods, such as maintenance-level operating
costs. However, those future costs are not expected to be significant. We
expect that substantially all exit activities will be completed within the next
year.  

   5.    Cost-Reduction Initiatives    

  In the first quarter of 2005, we
launched cost-reduction initiatives to increase efficiency and streamline
decision-making across the company. These initiatives, announced in April 2005
and broadened in October 2006 and January 2007, follow the integration of
Warner-Lambert and Pharmacia.  

We incurred the following costs in
connection with our cost-reduction initiatives:  

(a)    

For 2007, included in  Cost of sales  ($700 million),  Selling, informational and administrative
expenses  ($334
 million),  Research and development
 expenses  ($416 million) and in  Other
 (income)/deductions net  ($61 million income). For 2006, included
 in  Cost of sales  ($392
 million),  Selling, informational and
 administrative expenses  ($243 million),  Research and development expenses  ($176 million), and in  Other
(income)/deductions net  ($23
 million income). For 2005, included in  Cost
 of sales  ($124 million), 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses  ($151 million),
 and  Research and development expenses  ($50
 million).  

(b)    

Included in  Restructuring charges and acquisition-related costs .  

From the beginning of the
cost-reduction initiatives in 2005, through December 31, 2007, the
restructuring charges primarily relate to our plant network optimization
efforts and the restructuring of our worldwide sales, marketing and research
and development operations, while the implementation costs primarily relate to
accelerated depreciation of certain assets, as well as system and process
standardization and the expansion of shared services.  

48  |  2007
Financial Report    

Notes to Consolidated Financial
 Statements   

Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  

The
components of restructuring charges associated with our cost-reduction
initiatives follow: 

(a)  

Includes adjustments for foreign
 currency translation.  

(b)  

Included in  Other current liabilities  ($1.1 billion)
 and  Other noncurrent liabilities  ($186
 million).  

From the beginning of the
cost-reduction initiatives in 2005, through December 31, 2007,  Employee termination costs  represent the
expected reduction of the workforce by approximately 20,800 employees, mainly
in research, manufacturing and sales. As of December 31, 2007, approximately
13,000 of these employees have been formally terminated.  Employee termination costs  are recorded
when the actions are probable and estimable and include accrued severance
benefits, pension and postretirement benefits.  Asset
impairments  primarily include charges to write down property, plant
and equipment.  Other  primarily
includes costs to exit certain activities.  

   6.    Acquisition-Related Costs   

We recorded in  Restructuring charges and acquisition-related costs  $11
million in 2007, $27 million in 2006 and $918 million in 2005, for
acquisition-related costs. Amounts in 2005 were primarily related to our
acquisition of Pharmacia on April 16, 2003, and included integration costs of
$543 million and restructuring charges of $375 million. As of December 31,
2007, virtually all restructuring charges incurred have been utilized. 

Integration costs represent external,
incremental costs directly related to an acquisition, including expenditures
for consulting and systems integration. Restructuring charges can include
severance, costs of vacating duplicative facilities, contract termination and other
exit costs.  

7.     Other (Income)/Deductions Net    
 The components of  Other (income)/deductions net  follow: 

(a)  

The increase in net interest
 income in 2007 compared to 2006 is due primarily to higher net financial
 assets during 2007 compared to 2006, reflecting proceeds of $16.6 billion
 from the sale of our Consumer Healthcare business in late December 2006, and
 higher interest rates.  

(b)  

In 2006, we recorded a charge of
 $320 million related to the impairment of our Depo-Provera intangible asset,
 for which amortization expense is included in  Amortization of intangible assets . In 2005, we recorded
 charges totaling $1.2 billion, primarily related to the impairment of our
 Bextra intangible asset, for which amortization expense had previously been
 recorded in   Amortization of intangible assets   . See  Note 13B.
 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets: Other Intangible Assets.    

(c)  

In 2007, includes a gain of $211
 million related to the sale of a building in Korea. In 2007, gross realized
 gains were $8 million and gross realized losses were nil on sales of
 available-for-sale securities. In 2006, gross realized gains were $65 million
 and gross realized losses were $1 million on sales of available-for-sale
 securities. In 2005, gross realized gains were $171 million and gross realized
 losses were $14 million on sales of available-for-sale securities. Proceeds
 from the sale of available-for-sale securities were $663 million in 2007, $79
 million in 2006 and $2.8 billion in 2005.   

8.     Taxes on Income   
   A. Adoption of New Accounting Standard  

As of January 1, 2007, we adopted the
provisions of FIN 48,   Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of SFAS
109, Accounting for Income Taxes   , as supplemented by FASB Financial
Staff Position FIN 48-1,  Definition of
Settlement in FASB Interpretation No. 48 , issued May 2, 2007. See  Note 1D. Significant Accounting Policies: New
Accounting Standards  for a full description of our accounting policy
related to the accounting for income tax contingencies. As a result of the
implementation of FIN 48, at the date of adoption, we reduced our existing
liabilities for uncertain tax positions by approximately $11 million. This has
been recorded as a direct adjustment to the opening balance of  Retained earnings  and it changed the
classification of virtually all amounts associated with uncertain tax positions
of approximately $4.0 billion, including the associated accrued interest of
approximately $780 million, from current to noncurrent. (See    Note 8E. Taxes on
Income: Tax Contingencies   .)  

2007 Financial Report  |  49    

Notes to Consolidated Financial
 Statements   

Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  

B. Taxes on Income     Income from
continuing operations before provision for taxes on income, minority interests
and the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles   consists of
the following:  

The decrease in domestic income from
continuing operations before taxes in 2007 compared to 2006 is due primarily to
the volume and geographic mix of product sales and restructuring charges in
2007 compared to 2006, as well as the impact of charges associated with Exubera
(see  Note 4. Asset Impairment Charges and
Other Costs Associated with Exiting Exubera ), partially offset by
lower IPR D charges in 2007 of $283 million, primarily related to our
acquisitions of Biorexis and Embrex, compared to IPR D charges in 2006 of
$835 million, primarily related to our acquisitions of Rinat and PowderMed.  

  The increase in domestic income from
continuing operations before taxes in 2006 compared to 2005 is due primarily to
IPR D charges in 2005 of $1.7 billion, primarily related to our
acquisitions of Vicuron and Idun, the Bextra impairment and changes in product
mix, among other factors, partially offset by IPR D charges recorded in
2006 of $835 million, primarily related to our acquisitions of Rinat and
PowderMed, and a 2006 charge of $320 million related to the impairment of the
Depo-Provera intangible asset.  

  The provision for taxes on income
from continuing operations before minority interests and the cumulative effect
of a change in accounting principles consists of the following: 

(a)  

Excludes federal, state and
 international expense of approximately $1 million in 2007, a benefit of $119
 million in 2006 and a benefit of $127 million in 2005, primarily related to the
 resolution of certain tax positions related to Pharmacia, which were debited
 or credited to  Goodwill , as
 appropriate.  

In 2006, we were notified by the
Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Appeals Division that a resolution had been
reached on the matter that we were in the process of appealing related to the
tax deductibility of an acquisition-related breakup fee paid by the
Warner-Lambert Company in 2000. As a result, we recorded a tax benefit of
approximately $441 million related to the resolution of this issue (see  Note 8E. Taxes on Income: Tax Contingencies ).
Also in 2006, we recorded a decrease to the 2005 estimated U.S. tax provision
related to the repatriation of foreign earnings, due primarily to the receipt
of information that raised our assessment of the likelihood of prevailing on
the technical merits of a certain position, and we recognized a tax benefit of
$124 million. Additionally, in 2006, the IRS issued final regulations on
Statutory Mergers and Consolidations, which impacted certain prior-period
transactions, and we recorded a tax benefit of $217 million, reflecting the
total impact of these regulations.  

  In 2005, we recorded an income tax
charge of $1.7 billion, included in  Provision
for taxes on income , in connection with our decision to repatriate
approximately $37 billion of foreign earnings in accordance with the  American Jobs Creation Act of 2004  (the
Jobs Act). The Jobs Act created a temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to
repatriate accumulated income earned abroad by providing an 85%
dividend-received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign
corporations, subject to various limitations and restrictions including
qualified U.S. reinvestment of such earnings. In addition, in 2005, we recorded
a tax benefit of $586 million related to the resolution of certain tax
positions (see  Note 8E. Taxes on Income: Tax
Contingencies ).  

  Amounts reflected in the preceding
tables are based on the location of the taxing authorities. As of December 31,
2007, we have not made a U.S. tax provision on approximately $60 billion of
unremitted earnings of our international subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2007,
these earnings are intended to be permanently reinvested overseas. Because of
the complexity, it is not practical to compute the estimated deferred tax
liability on these permanently reinvested earnings.  

C. Tax Rate Reconciliation   
  Reconciliation of the U.S. statutory
income tax rate to our effective tax rate for continuing operations before the
cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles follows: 

50  |  2007
Financial Report    

Notes to Consolidated Financial
 Statements   

Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary
 Companies  

We operate manufacturing subsidiaries
in Puerto Rico, Ireland and Singapore. We benefit from Puerto Rican incentive
grants that expire between 2017 and 2027. Under the grants, we are partially
exempt from income, property and municipal taxes. Under Section 936 of the U.S.
Internal Revenue Code, Pfizer was a  grandfathered  entity and was entitled to
the benefits under such statute until September 30, 2006. In Ireland, we
benefit from an incentive tax rate effective through 2010 on income from
manufacturing operations. In Singapore, we benefit from incentive tax rates
effective through 2031 on income from manufacturing operations.  

  The U.S. research tax credit was
effective through December 31, 2007. For a discussion about the repatriation of
foreign earnings and the tax legislation impact, see  Note 8B. Taxes on Income: Taxes on Income . For a discussion
about the resolution of certain tax positions, see  Note 8E. Taxes on Income: Tax Contingencies . The charges for
acquired IPR D in 2007, 2006 and 2005 are not deductible.  

D. Deferred
Taxes      Deferred taxes arise because of
different timing treatment between financial statement accounting and tax
accounting, known as  temporary differences.  We record the tax effect of these
temporary differences as  deferred tax assets  (generally items that can be
used as a tax deduction or credit in future periods) or  deferred tax
liabilities  (generally items for which we received a tax deduction, but that
have not yet been recorded in the consolidated statement of income).   

  The tax effect of the major items
recorded as deferred tax assets and liabilities, shown before jurisdictional
netting, as of December 31, is as follows: 

(a)  

Reclassified as a result of the
 adoption of a new accounting standard.  

The reduction in the net deferred tax
liability position in 2007 compared to 2006 is primarily due to amortization of
deferred tax liabilities related to identifiable intangibles in connection with
our acquisition of Pharmacia in 2003, partially offset by an increase in
noncurrent deferred tax assets related to the impairment of Exubera. (See  Note 4. Asset Impairment Charges and Other Costs
Associated with Exiting Exubera .)  

  We have carryforwards primarily
related to foreign tax credit carryovers and net operating losses, which are
available to reduce future U.S. federal and state, as well as international,
income with either an indefinite life or expiring at various times between 2008
and 2026. Certain of our U.S. net operating losses are subject to limitations
under Internal Revenue Code Section 382.  

  Valuation allowances are provided
when we believe that our deferred tax assets are not recoverable, based on an
assessment of estimated future taxable income that incorporates ongoing,
prudent, feasible tax planning strategies.  

  Deferred tax assets and liabilities
in the preceding table, netted by taxing jurisdiction, are in the following
captions in our consolidated balance sheets: 

(a)  

Included in  Prepaid expenses and taxes .  

(b)  

Included in  Other assets, deferred taxes and deferred charges .

(c)  

Included in  Other current
 liabilities .  

(d)  

Included in  Deferred taxes .  

E. Tax Contingencies   We are subject to income tax in many
jurisdictions and a certain degree of estimation is required in recording the
assets and liabilities related to income taxes. For a description of our
accounting policy associated with accounting for income tax contingencies, see  Note 1D. Significant Accounting Policies: New
Accounting Standards . All of our tax positions are subject to audit
by the local taxing authorities in each tax jurisdiction. Tax audits can
involve complex issues and the resolution of issues may span multiple years,
particularly if subject to negotiation or litigation.  

  The United States is one of our major
tax jurisdictions and the IRS is currently conducting audits of the Pfizer Inc.
tax returns for the years 2002, 2003 and 2004. The 2005, 2006 and 2007 tax
years are also currently under audit as part of the IRS Compliance Assurance
Process (CAP), a real-time audit process. All other tax years in the U.S. for
Pfizer Inc. are closed under the statute of limitations. With respect to
Pharmacia Corporation, the IRS is currently conducting an audit for the year
2003 through the date of merger with Pfizer (April 16, 2003). In addition to
the open audit years in the U.S., we have open audit years in other major tax
jurisdictions, such as Canada (1998-2006), Japan (2006), Europe (1996-2006,
primarily reflecting Ireland, the U.K., France, Italy, Spain and Germany), and
Puerto Rico (2003-2006).  

2007 Financial Report  |  51    

Notes to Consolidated Financial
 Statements   

Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  

We regularly reevaluate our tax
positions based on the results of audits of federal, state and foreign income
tax filings, statute of limitations expirations, and changes in tax law that
would either increase or decrease the technical merits of a position relative
to the more likely than not standard. We believe that our accruals for tax
liabilities are adequate for all open years. Many factors are considered in
making these evaluations, including past history, recent interpretations of tax
law, and the specifics of each matter. Because tax regulations are subject to
interpretation and tax litigation is inherently uncertain, these evaluations
can involve a series of complex judgments about future events and can rely
heavily on estimates and assumptions (see  Note
1B. Significant Accounting Policies: Estimates and Assumptions ). Our
evaluations are based on estimates and assumptions that have been deemed
reasonable by management. However, if our estimates and assumptions are not
representative of actual outcomes, our results could be materially impacted.  

  Because tax law is complex and often
subject to varied interpretations, it is uncertain whether some of our tax
positions will be sustained upon audit. The amounts associated with uncertain
tax positions in 2007 are as follows: 

(a)  

Included in  Other assets, deferred taxes and deferred charges .  

(b)  

Includes gross accrued interest.
 Accrued penalties are not significant.  

(c)  

As of December 31, 2007, included
 in  Income taxes payable  ($358
 million) and  Prepaid expenses and taxes  ($50
 million) As of December 31, 2006, included in  Income taxes payable  ($47 million).  

Tax liabilities associated with
uncertain tax positions represent unrecognized tax benefits, which arise when
the estimated benefit recorded in our financial statements differs from the
amounts taken or expected to be taken in a tax return because of the
uncertainties described above. These unrecognized tax benefits relate primarily
to issues common among multinational corporations. Substantially all of these
unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized, would impact our effective income tax
rate.  

  Tax assets associated with uncertain
tax positions represent our estimate of the potential tax benefits in one tax
jurisdiction that could result from the payment of income taxes in another tax
jurisdiction. These potential benefits generally result from cooperative
efforts among taxing authorities, as required by tax treaties to minimize
double taxation, commonly referred to as the competent authority process. The
recoverability of these assets, which we believe to be more likely than not, is
dependent upon the actual payment of taxes in one tax jurisdiction and, in some
cases, the successful petition for recovery in another tax jurisdiction.  

A reconciliation of the beginning and
ending amounts of gross unrecognized tax benefits and accrued interest is as
follows: 

(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)  

Balance as
 of January 1, 2007  

$  

(5,009  

)  

Increases
 based on tax positions taken during a prior period  

(80  

)  

Increases
 based on tax positions taken during the current period  

(1,089  

)  

Increases
 primarily related to currency translation adjustments  

(191  

)  

Decreases
 related to settlements with taxing authorities  

32  

Decreases
 as a result of a lapse of the applicable statute of limitations  

14  

Increases
 in accrued interest due to the passage of time  

(331  

)  

Balance as
 of December 31, 2007 (a)   

$  

(6,654  

)  

(a)  

Included in  Income taxes payable  ($358 million),  Prepaid expenses and taxes  ($50 million)
 and  Other taxes payable  ($6.2
 billion).  

If our estimates of unrecognized tax
benefits and potential tax benefits are not representative of actual outcomes,
our financial statements could be materially affected in the period of
settlement or when the statutes of limitations expire, as we treat these events
as discrete items in the period of resolution. Finalizing audits with the
relevant taxing authorities can include formal administrative and legal
proceedings and, as a result, it is difficult to estimate the timing and range
of possible change related to our uncertain tax positions. However, any
settlements or statute expirations would likely result in a significant
decrease in our uncertain tax positions. We estimate that within the next 12
months, our gross uncertain tax positions could decrease by as much as $800
million, as a result of the settlement of issues common to multinational
corporations or the expiration of the statute of limitations in multiple jurisdictions.  

52  |  2007
Financial Report    

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements 
   Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  

(a)  

The currency translation
 adjustments reclassified to income result from the sale of businesses.  

(b)  

Includes pre-tax amounts for  Actuarial losses  of $4.3 billion and  Prior
service costs (credits) and other  of
 $27 million. See also  Note 14. Pension and
 Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans.   

Income taxes are not provided for
foreign currency translation relating to permanent investments in international
subsidiaries.  

  As of December 31, 2007, we estimate
that we will reclassify into 2008 income the following pre-tax amounts
currently held in  Accumulated other
comprehensive income/(expense) : virtually all of the unrealized holding
losses on derivative financial instruments; $138 million of  Actuarial gains/(losses)  related to
benefit plan obligations and plan assets; and $3 million of  Prior service (costs)/credits and other  related
primarily to benefit plan amendments.  

2007 Financial Report  |  53   

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

(a)    

Trading investments are held in
 trust for legacy Pharmacia severance benefits.  

(b)    

Gross unrealized gains and losses
 are not significant.  

On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our
investments in debt and equity securities to determine if a decline in fair
value is other-than-temporary. When a decline in fair value is determined to be
other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in
the investment is established. The aggregate cost and related unrealized losses
related to non-traded equity investments are not significant.  

   B. Short-Term Borrowings   

  Short-term borrowings include amounts
for commercial paper of $4.4 billion as of December 31, 2007, and $1.6 billion
as of December 31, 2006. The weighted-average effective interest rate on
short-term borrowings outstanding was 3.4% as of December 31, 2007, and 3.0% as
of December 31, 2006.  

  As of December 31, 2007, we had
access to $3.7 billion of lines of credit, of which $1.5 billion expire within
one year. Of these lines of credit, $3.6 billion are unused, of which our
lenders have committed to loan us $2.1 billion at our request. $2.0 billion of
the unused lines of credit, which expire in 2012, may be used to support our
commercial paper borrowings.  

54     |      2007
Financial Report    

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

In March 2007, we filed a securities
registration statement with the SEC. The registration statement was filed under
the automatic shelf registration process available to well-known seasoned
issuers and is effective for three years. We can issue securities of various
types under that registration statement at any time, subject to approval by our
Board of Directors in certain circumstances.  

   D. Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities   

   Foreign Exchange Risk  A significant
portion of revenues, earnings and net investments in foreign affiliates is
exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. We seek to manage our foreign
exchange risk in part through operational means, including managing expected
same currency revenues in relation to same currency costs and same currency
assets in relation to same currency liabilities. Depending on market
conditions, foreign exchange risk is also managed through the use of derivative
financial instruments and foreign currency debt. These financial instruments
serve to protect net income and net investments against the impact of the
translation into U.S. dollars of certain foreign exchange denominated
transactions.   

  We entered into financial instruments
to hedge or offset by the same currency an appropriate portion of the currency
risk and the timing of the hedged or offset item. As of December 31, 2007 and
2006, the more significant financial instruments employed to manage foreign
exchange risk follow:  

(a)   

Forwards = Forward-exchange
 contracts; ST yen borrowings = Short-term yen borrowings; ST yen debt =
 Short-term yen debt; LT yen debt = Long-term yen debt.  

(b)   

The primary balance sheet caption
 indicates the financial statement classification of the amount associated
 with the financial instrument used to hedge or offset foreign exchange risk.
 The abbreviations used are defined as follows: Prepaid =  Prepaid expenses and taxes ; Other assets
 =  Other assets, deferred taxes and
 deferred charges ; STB =  Short-term
 borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt ; OCL =  Other current liabilities ; and LTD =
 Long-term debt .  

(c)   

CF = Cash flow hedge; NI = Net
 investment hedge.  

(d)    

Forward-exchange contracts used
 to offset short-term foreign currency assets and liabilities were primarily
 for intercompany transactions in euros, Japanese yen, Swedish krona, U.K.
 pounds and Canadian dollars for the year ended December 31, 2007, and euros,
 U.K. pounds, Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen and Swedish
 krona for the year ended December 31, 2006.  

(e)    

Reflects an increase in Swedish
 krona net investments in 2006 due to the receipt of proceeds related to the
 sale of our Consumer Healthcare business in Sweden.  

(f)    

Forward-exchange contracts used
 to offset foreign currency loans in 2006 for intercompany contracts arising
 from the sale of our Consumer Healthcare business, primarily in Canadian
 dollars, U.K. pounds and euros.  

2007 Financial Report  |  55   

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

All derivative contracts used to
manage foreign currency risk are measured at fair value and reported as assets
or liabilities on the balance sheet. Changes in fair value are reported in
earnings or deferred, depending on the nature and effectiveness of the offset
or hedging relationship, as follows:  

We recognize the earnings impact of foreign currency swaps
 and foreign currency forward-exchange contracts designated as cash flow
 hedges in  Other (income)/deductions net  upon
 the recognition of the foreign exchange gain or loss on the translation to
 U.S. dollars of the hedged items.  

We recognize the earnings impact of foreign currency
 forward-exchange contracts that are used to offset foreign currency assets or
 liabilities in  Other (income)/deductions net
  during the terms of the contracts, along with the earnings impact
 of the items they generally offset.  

We recognize the earnings impact of foreign currency swaps
 designated as a hedge of our net investments in  Other (income)/deductions net  in three ways: over
time-for
 the periodic net swap payments; immediately-to the extent of any   

change in the difference between the foreign exchange spot
 rate and forward rate; and upon sale or substantial liquidation of our net
 investments-to the extent of change in the foreign exchange spot rates.  

Any ineffectiveness in a hedging
relationship is recognized immediately into earnings. There was no significant
ineffectiveness in 2007, 2006 or 2005.  

   Interest Rate Risk   Our
interest-bearing investments, loans and borrowings are subject to interest rate
risk. We invest, loan and borrow primarily on a short-term or variable-rate
basis. From time to time, depending on market conditions, we will fix interest
rates either through entering into fixed-rate investments and borrowings or
through the use of derivative financial instruments.   

  We entered into derivative financial
instruments to hedge or offset the fixed or variable interest rates on the
hedged item, matching the amount and timing of the hedged item. As of December
31, 2007 and 2006, the more significant derivative financial instruments
employed to manage interest rate risk follow:  

(a)    

The primary balance sheet caption
 indicates the financial statement classification of the fair value amount
 associated with the financial instrument used to hedge or offset interest
 rate risk. The abbreviations used are defined as follows: OCL =  Other current liabilities ; ONCL =
 Other noncurrent liabilities ; and Other
 assets =  Other assets, deferred taxes and
 deferred charges.   

(b)    

FV = Fair value hedge.  

(c)    

Serve to reduce exposure to
 long-term U.S. dollar and euro interest rates by effectively converting fixed
 rates associated with long-term debt obligations to floating rates (see also  Note 10C. Financial Instruments:
Long-Term Debt ).  

All derivative contracts used to
manage interest rate risk are measured at fair value and reported as assets or
liabilities on the balance sheet. Changes in fair value are reported in
earnings or deferred, depending on the nature and effectiveness of the offset
or hedging relationship, as follows:  

We recognize the earnings impact of interest rate swaps
 designated as fair value hedges or offsets in  Other (income)/deductions net  upon the recognition of
the
 change in fair value for interest rate risk related to the hedged or offset
 items.  

We recognize the earnings impact of interest rate swaps in
  Other (income)/deductions net.   

Any ineffectiveness in a hedging
relationship is recognized immediately in earnings. There was no significant
ineffectiveness in 2007, 2006 or 2005.  

   E. Fair Value   The following methods and assumptions
were used to estimate the fair value of derivative and other financial
instruments as of the balance sheet date:   

short-term financial instruments (cash equivalents,
 accounts receivable and payable, held-to-maturity debt securities and   

debt) we use cost or contract value because of the short
 maturity period.  

available-for-sale debt securities we use a valuation
 model that uses observable market quotes and credit ratings of the
 securities.   

available-for-sale equity securities we use observable market
 quotes.  

derivative contracts we use valuation models that use
 observable market quotes and our view of the creditworthiness of the
 derivative counterparty.  

loans we use cost because of the short interest-reset
 period.   

held-to-maturity long-term investments and long-term
 debt we use valuation models that use observable market quotes.  

56  |  2007
Financial Report   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
   Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary
Companies  

The
differences between the estimated fair values and carrying values of our
financial instruments were not significant as of December 31, 2007 and 2006.  

   F. Credit Risk   

  On an
ongoing basis, we review the creditworthiness of counterparties to foreign
exchange and interest rate agreements and do not expect to incur a loss from
failure of any counterparties to perform under the agreements.  

  There are
no significant concentrations of credit risk related to our financial
instruments with any individual counterparty. As of December 31, 2007, we had
$4.3 billion due from a broad group of banks around the world.  

  In general, there is no
requirement for collateral from customers. However, derivative financial
instruments are executed under master netting agreements with financial
institutions. These agreements contain provisions that provide for the ability
for collateral payments, depending on levels of exposure, our credit rating and
the credit rating of the counterparty. As of December 31, 2007, we advanced
cash collateral of $460 million and received cash collateral of $364 million
against various counterparties. The collateral primarily supports the
approximate fair value of our Swedish krona swap contracts. The collateral
advanced receivables is reported in  Prepaid
expenses and taxes,  and the collateral received obligation is
reported in  Other current liabilities.   

   11.    Inventories    

  The
components of inventories as of December 31 follow:  

(a)  

Decrease was primarily due to
 write-off of inventories related to Exubera (see  Note 4. Asset Impairment Charges and Other Costs Associated with
 Exiting Exubera ) and the impact of our inventory-reduction initiatives.  

12.    Property,
Plant and Equipment    

  The major categories of property,
plant and equipment as of December 31 follow:  

13.    Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets    

   A. Goodwill   

  The changes in the carrying amount
of goodwill by segment for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, follow:  

(a)  

Primarily related to Embrex in
 2007 and Exubera in 2006.   

(b)  

In 2007, primarily relates to the
 impact of foreign exchange. In 2006, includes reductions to goodwill related
 to the resolution of certain tax positions, adjustments for certain purchase
 accounting liabilities and the impact of foreign exchange.  

B. Other Intangible Assets   

  The components of identifiable
intangible assets, primarily included in our Pharmaceutical segment, as of
December 31 follow:  

(a)  

Includes patents, non-compete
 agreements, customer contracts and other intangible assets.  

(b)  

Decrease primarily due to
 amortization, as well as the impairment of intangible assets associated with
 Exubera (see  Note 4. Asset Impairment
 Charges and Other Costs Associated with Exiting Exubera ), partially
 offset by the impact of foreign exchange.  

2007 Financial
Report  |  57   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary
Companies   

Developed
technology rights represent the amortized value associated with developed
technology, which has been acquired from third parties and which can include
the right to develop, use, market, sell and/or offer for sale the product,
compounds and intellectual property that we have acquired with respect to
products, compounds and/or processes that have been completed. We possess a
well-diversified portfolio of hundreds of developed technology rights across therapeutic
categories primarily representing the commercialized products included in our
Pharmaceutical segment that we acquired in connection with our Pharmacia
acquisition. While the Arthritis and Pain therapeutic category represents about
30% of the total amortized value of developed technology rights as of December
31, 2007, the balance of the amortized value is evenly distributed across the
following Pharmaceutical therapeutic product categories: Ophthalmology;
Oncology; Urology; Infectious and Respiratory Diseases; Endocrine Disorders
categories; and, as a group, the Cardiovascular and Metabolic Diseases; Central
Nervous System Disorders and All Other categories. The significant components
include values determined for Celebrex, Detrol/Detrol LA, Xalatan, Genotropin,
Zyvox and Campto/Camptosar. Also included in this category are the
post-approval milestone payments made under our alliance agreements for certain
Pharmaceutical products, such as Rebif and Spiriva. These rights are all
subject to our review for impairment explained in  Note 1K. Significant Accounting Policies: Amortization of Intangible
Assets, Depreciation and Certain Long-Lived Assets.   

  The
weighted-average life of our total finite-lived intangible assets is
approximately seven years, which includes developed technology rights at eight
years. Total amortization expense for finite-lived intangible assets was $3.2
billion in 2007, $3.4 billion in 2006 and $3.5 billion in 2005.  

  Brands
represent the amortized value associated with tradenames, as the products
themselves no longer receive patent protection. Most of these assets are
associated with our Pharmaceutical segment and the significant components
include values determined for Depo-Provera, Xanax and Medrol.  

  In 2007, we
recorded charges of $1.1 billion in  Cost of
sales  and  Selling, informational
and administrative expenses  related to the impairment of Exubera
(see  Note 4. Asset Impairment Charges and
Other Costs Associated with Exiting Exubera ). In 2006, we recorded
charges of $320 million in  Other
(income)/deductions net  related to the impairment of our
Depo-Provera brand, a contraceptive injection, (included in our Pharmaceutical
segment). In 2005, we recorded an impairment charge of $1.1 billion in  Other (income)/deductions net  related to
the developed technology rights for Bextra, a selective COX-2 inhibitor
(included in our Pharmaceutical segment), in connection with the decision to
suspend sales of Bextra. In addition, in connection with the suspension, we
recorded $5 million related to the write-off of machinery and equipment
included in  Other (income)/ deductions net;  $73
million in write-offs of inventory and exit costs, included in  Cost of sales ; $8 million related to the
costs of administering the  

suspension of sales, included in  Selling, informational and administrative expenses;  and
$212 million for an estimate of customer returns, primarily included against  Revenues.   

The annual amortization expense
expected for the years 2008 through 2012 is as follows:  

14.    Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined
Contribution Plans    

  We provide
defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for the majority
of our employees worldwide. In the U.S., we have both qualified and
supplemental (non-qualified) defined benefit plans. A qualified plan meets the
requirements of certain sections of the Internal Revenue Code and, generally,
contributions to qualified plans are tax deductible. A qualified plan typically
provides benefits to a broad group of employees and may not discriminate in
favor of highly compensated employees in its coverage, benefits or
contributions. We also provide benefits through supplemental (non-qualified)
retirement plans to certain employees. In addition, we provide medical and life
insurance benefits to certain retirees and their eligible dependents through
our postretirement plans.  

  We use a
measurement date that coincides with our fiscal yearends; December 31 for our U.S. pension and postretirement plans
and November 30 for our international plans. During 2006, pursuant to the
divestiture of our Consumer Healthcare business, certain defined benefit
obligations and related plan assets, if applicable, were transferred to the
purchaser of that business.  

   A. Adoption of New Accounting Standard   

  As of
December 31, 2006, we adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
Other Postretirement Plans (an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and
132R),  which requires us to recognize on our balance sheet the
difference between our benefit obligations and any plan assets of our defined
benefit plans. In addition, we are required to recognize as part of other
comprehensive income/(expense), net of taxes, gains and losses due to
differences between our actuarial assumptions and actual experience (actuarial
gains and losses) and any effects on prior service due to plan amendments
(prior service costs or credits) that arise during the period and which are not
being recognized as net periodic benefit costs. Upon adoption, SFAS 158
requires the recognition of previously unrecognized actuarial gains and losses,
prior service costs or credits and net transition amounts within  Accumulated other comprehensive income (expense),  net
of tax. The incremental impact of applying SFAS 158 to our balance sheet as of
December 31, 2006, was to reduce our total shareholders  equity by $2.1
billion, primarily due to the recognition of previously unrecognized actuarial
losses.  

58  |  2007 Financial Report   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary
Companies   

B. Components of
 Net Periodic Benefit Costs and Other Amounts Recognized in Other
 Comprehensive (Income)/Expense   

The annual cost and other
 amounts recognized in other comprehensive (income)/expense of the U.S.
 qualified, U.S. supplemental (non-qualified) and international pension plans
 and postretirement plans for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and
 2005, follows:  

(a)  

For details, see  Note 9. Other Comprehensive Income/(Expense) .  

The
decrease in the 2007 U.S. qualified pension plans  net periodic benefit cost
compared to 2006 was largely driven by a higher 2006 actual investment return,
the increase in the discount rate and the impact of our cost-reduction
initiatives.  

  The
decrease in the 2007 international plans  net periodic benefit cost compared to
2006 was largely driven by a settlement gain at our Japanese affiliate.
Japanese pension regulations permit employers with certain pension obligations
to separate the social security benefits portion of those obligations and
transfer it,   

along with
related plan assets, to the Japanese government. During 2007, our Japanese
affiliate completed this transfer and effectively received a subsidy from the
Japanese government of approximately $168 million. This subsidy was the result
of the transfer of pension obligations of approximately $309 million (excluding
the effect of any future salary increases of approximately $9 million) along
with related plan assets of approximately $141 million. This transfer resulted
in a settlement gain of $106 million.  

The following table presents the
amount in  Accumulated other comprehensive
income/(expense)  expected to be amortized into 2008 net periodic
benefit costs:  

2007 Financial
Report  |  59   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary
Companies   

C. Actuarial Assumptions   

  The following table provides the
weighted-average actuarial assumptions:  

The
assumptions above are used to develop the benefit obligations at fiscal
year-end and to develop the net periodic benefit cost for the subsequent fiscal
year. Therefore, the assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost
for each year are established at the end of each previous year, while the
assumptions used to determine benefit obligations were established at each
year-end.  

The net
periodic benefit cost and the benefit obligations are based on actuarial
assumptions that are reviewed on an annual basis. We revise these assumptions
based on an annual evaluation of long-term trends, as well as market
conditions, that may have an impact on the cost of providing retirement
benefits.  

  The
expected rates of return on plan assets for our U.S. qualified, international
and postretirement plans represent our long-term assessment of return
expectations, which we will change based on significant shifts in economic and
financial market conditions. The 2007 expected rates of return for these plans
reflect our long-term outlook for a globally diversified portfolio, which is
influenced by a combination of return expectations for individual asset
classes, actual historical experience and our diversified investment strategy.
The historical returns are one of the inputs used to provide context for the
development of our expectations for future returns. Using this information, we
develop ranges of returns for each asset class and a weighted-average expected
return for our targeted portfolio, which includes the impact of portfolio
diversification and active portfolio management.  

  The healthcare cost trend rate
assumptions for our U.S. postretirement benefit plans are as follows:  

A one-percentage-point increase or
decrease in the healthcare cost trend rate assumed for postretirement benefits
would have the following effects as of December 31, 2007:  

(MILLIONS
 OF DOLLARS)  

INCREASE  

DECREASE  

Effect on total service and
 interest  

cost components  

$  

17  

$  

(13  

)  

Effect on postretirement benefit  

obligation  

181  

(151  

)  

60  |  2007 Financial Report   

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements    Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  

D. Obligations
  and Funded Status   

The following table presents an analysis of the changes in
  2007 and 2006 in the benefit obligations, the plan assets and the funded status
  of our U.S. qualified, U.S. supplemental (non-qualified) and international
  pension plans, and our postretirement plans:  

(a)    

For the U.S. and international
  pension plans, the benefit obligation is the projected benefit obligation.
  For the postretirement plans, the benefit obligation is the accumulated
  postretirement benefit obligation.  

(b)    

For 2006, includes curtailments
  and settlements associated with the transfer of benefit obligations as part
  of the sale of our Consumer Healthcare business  

The favorable change in our U.S.
qualified plans projected benefit obligations funded status from $24 million
overfunded in the aggregate as of December 31, 2006, to $533 million overfunded
in the aggregate as of December 31, 2007, was largely driven by the 0.6
percentage-point increase in the discount rate and our voluntary contributions.
In 2007, we made required U.S. qualified plan contributions of $6 million and
voluntary tax-deductible contributions in excess of minimum requirements of
$100 million to certain of our U.S. qualified pension plans. In 2006, we made
required U.S. qualified plan contributions of $3 million and voluntary
tax-deductible contributions in excess of minimum requirements of $450 million
to certain of our U.S. qualified pension plans. In the aggregate, the U.S.
qualified pension plans are overfunded on a projected benefit measurement basis
and on an accumulated benefit obligation measurement basis as of December 31,
2007 and 2006. In 2006, we made voluntary tax-deductible contributions of $90
million to certain of our U.S. postretirement plans through the establishment
of sections 401(h) accounts.  

  The U.S. supplemental (non-qualified)
pension plans are not generally funded, as there are no tax or other incentives
that exist, and these obligations, which are substantially greater than the
annual cash outlay for these liabilities, are paid from cash generated from
operations.  

The favorable change in our
international plans projected benefit obligations funded status from $2.3
billion underfunded in the aggregate as of December 31, 2006, to $1.3 billion
underfunded in the aggregate as of December 31, 2007, was largely driven by the
increase in the discount rate in the U.K. and other European plans. Outside the
U.S., in general, we fund our defined benefit plans to the extent that tax or
other incentives exist and we have accrued liabilities on our consolidated
balance sheets to reflect those plans that are not fully funded.  

  The favorable change in our
postretirement plans projected benefit obligations funded status from $2.0
billion underfunded in the aggregate as of December 31, 2006, to $1.8 billion
underfunded in the aggregate as of December 31, 2007, was largely driven by the
0.6 percentage-point increase in the discount rate and the impact of our
cost-reduction initiatives.  

  The accumulated benefit obligations
(ABO) for our U.S. qualified pension plans were $6.6 billion in 2007 and $6.8
billion in 2006. The ABO for our U.S. supplemental (non-qualified) pension
plans was $849 million in 2007 and $883 million in 2006. The ABO for our
international pension plans was $6.8 billion in 2007 and $7.1 billion in 2006.  

2007 Financial Report  |  61    

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

(a)    

Included primarily in  Other assets, deferred taxes and deferred charges .  

(b)    

Included in  Other current liabilities.   

(c)    

Included in  Pension benefit obligations  and  Postretirement benefit obligations,  as
  appropriate.  

The actuarial losses primarily
represent the cumulative difference between the actuarial assumptions and
actual return on plan assets, changes in discount rates and plan experience.
These actuarial losses are recognized in  Accumulated
other comprehensive income/(expense)  and are amortized into income
over an average period of 11 years for our U.S. plans and an average period of
14 years for our international plans.  

  Information related to the U.S.
qualified, U.S. supplemental (non-qualified) and international pension plans as
of December 31 follows:  

In the aggregate, our U.S. qualified
pension plans had assets greater than their ABO  and their projected benefit
obligation as of December 31, 2007.  

   62  |  2007
Financial Report    

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

E. Plan Assets   

  The
following table presents the weighted-average long-term target asset
allocations and the percentages of the fair value of plan assets for our U.S.
qualified and international pension plans and postretirement plans by
investment category as of December 31:  

(a)    

Private equity, venture capital,
  private debt and real estate.  

(b)  

Real estate, insurance contracts
  and other investments.  

(c)  

Reflects postretirement plan
  assets, which support a portion of our U.S. retiree medical plans.  

All long-term asset allocation targets
reflect our asset class return expectations and tolerance for investment risk
within the context of the respective plans  long-term benefit obligations. The
long-term asset allocation is supported by an analysis that incorporates
historical and expected returns by asset class, as well as volatilities and
correlations across asset classes and our liability profile. This analysis,
referred to as an asset-liability analysis, also provides an estimate of
expected returns on plan assets, as well as a forecast of potential future
asset and liability balances. Due to market conditions and other factors,
actual asset allocations may vary from the target allocation outlined above.
For the U.S. qualified pension plans, in late 2007, we modified our strategic asset
target allocation to reduce the volatility of our plan funded status and the
probability of future contribution requirements. Our target allocations have
been revised to increase the debt securities allocation by 10% and to reduce
the global equity securities allocation by a corresponding amount. The year-end
2007 cash allocation of 4.1% for U.S. qualified pensions plans and 5.6% for
international pension plans was above the target allocation, primarily due to
cash raised from the termination of certain investment strategies, which will
be redeployed during 2008. The assets are periodically rebalanced back to the
target allocation.  

  The U.S. qualified pension plans held
no shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2007, and approximately 10.2
million shares (fair value of approximately $263 million, representing 3.3% of
U.S. plan assets) as of December 31, 2006. The plans received approximately $12
million in dividends on shares of our common stock in 2007 and approximately
$10 million in dividends on these shares in 2006.  

F. Cash Flows   

  It is our
practice to fund amounts for our qualified pension plans that are at least
sufficient to meet the minimum requirements set forth in applicable employee
benefit laws and local tax laws.  

The
following table presents expected cash flow information:  

The table reflects the total U.S. and
international plan benefits projected to be paid from the plans or from our
general assets under the current actuarial assumptions used for the calculation
of the benefit obligation and, therefore, actual benefit payments may differ
from projected benefit payments.  

   G. Defined Contribution Plans   

  We have savings and investment plans
in several countries, including the U.S., Japan, Spain and the Netherlands. For
the U.S. plans, employees may contribute a portion of their salaries and
bonuses to the plans, and we match, largely in company stock, a portion of the
employee contributions. In the U.S., employees are permitted to diversify all
or any portion of their company stock match contribution. The contribution
match for certain legacy Pfizer U.S. participants is held in an employee stock
ownership plan. We recorded charges related to our plans of $203 million in
2007, $222 million in 2006 and $234 million in 2005.  

2007 Financial Report  |  63    

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements 
   Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  

15.    Equity    

   A. Common Stock   

  We purchase our common stock via
privately negotiated transactions or in open market purchases as circumstances
and prices warrant. Purchased shares under each of the share-purchase programs,
which are authorized by our Board of Directors, are available for general
corporate purposes.  

  A summary of common stock purchases follows:  

B. Preferred Stock   

  The Series A convertible perpetual
preferred stock is held by an Employee Stock Ownership Plan ( Preferred ESOP )
Trust and provides dividends at the rate of 6.25%, which are accumulated and
paid quarterly. The per-share stated value is $40,300 and the preferred stock
ranks senior to our common stock as to dividends and liquidation rights. Each
share is convertible, at the holder s option, into 2,574.87 shares of our
common stock with equal voting rights. The conversion option is indexed to our common
stock and requires share settlement, and therefore, is reported at the fair
value at the date of issuance. We may redeem the preferred stock at any time or
upon termination of the Preferred ESOP, at our option, in cash, in shares of
common stock or a combination of both at a price of $40,300 per share.  

   C. Employee Stock Ownership Plans   

  We have two employee stock ownership
plans (collectively the  ESOPs ), a Preferred ESOP and another that holds
common stock of the company ( Common ESOP ). A portion of the matching
contributions for legacy Pharmacia U.S. savings plan participants is funded
through the ESOPs.  

  In January 2007, we paid the
remaining balance of financing, which was outstanding prior to our acquisition
of Pharmacia in 2003, relating to the Preferred ESOP. Compensation expense
related to the ESOPs totaled approximately $35 million in 2007, $37 million in
2006 and $44 million in 2005.  

  Allocated shares held by the Common
ESOP are considered outstanding for the earnings per share (EPS) calculations
and the eventual conversion of allocated preferred shares held by the Preferred
ESOP is assumed in the diluted EPS calculation. As of December 31, 2007, the
Preferred ESOP held preferred shares with a stated value of approximately $93
million, convertible into approximately six million shares of our common stock.
As of   

December 31, 2007, the Common ESOP held approximately 6 million shares of
our common stock. As of December 31, 2007, all preferred and common shares held
by the ESOPs have been allocated to the Pharmacia U.S. and certain Puerto Rico
savings plan participants.  

   D. Employee Benefit Trust   

  The Pfizer Inc Employee Benefit Trust
(EBT) was established in 1999 to fund our employee benefit plans through the
use of its holdings of Pfizer Inc stock. The consolidated balance sheets
reflect the fair value of the shares owned by the EBT as a reduction of  Shareholders  equity.   

   16.    Share-Based Payments    

  Our compensation programs can include
share-based payments. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, the primary share-based awards
and their general terms and conditions are as follows:  

Stock options, which entitle the holder to purchase, after
 the end of a vesting term, a specified number of shares of Pfizer common
 stock at a price per share set equal to the market price of Pfizer common
 stock on the date of grant.  

Restricted stock units (RSUs), which entitle the holder to
 receive, at the end of a vesting term, a specified number of shares of Pfizer
 common stock, including shares resulting from dividend equivalents paid on
 such RSUs.  

Performance share awards (PSAs) and performance-contingent
 share awards (PCSAs), which entitle the holder to receive, at the end of a
 vesting term, a number of shares of Pfizer common stock, within a range of
 shares from zero to a specified maximum, calculated using a non-discretionary
 formula that measures Pfizer s performance relative to an industry peer
 group. Dividend equivalents are paid on PSAs.  

Restricted stock grants, which entitle the holder to
 receive, at the end of a vesting term, a specified number of shares of Pfizer
 common stock, and which also entitle the holder to receive dividends paid on
 such grants.  

The Company s shareholders approved
the Pfizer Inc. 2004 Stock Plan (the 2004 Plan) at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders
held on April 22, 2004 and, effective upon that approval, new stock option and
other share-based awards may be granted only under the 2004 Plan. The 2004 Plan
allows a maximum of 3 million shares to be awarded to any employee per year and
475 million shares in total. RSUs, PSAs, PCSAs and restricted stock grants
count as three shares, while stock options count as one share under the 2004
Plan toward the maximums.  

  In the past, we had various employee
stock and incentive plans under which stock options and other share-based
awards were granted. Stock options and other share-based awards that were
granted under prior plans and were outstanding on April 22, 2004, continue in
accordance with the terms of the respective plans.  

  As of December 31, 2007, 269 million
shares were available for award, which include 40 million shares available for
award under the legacy Pharmacia Long-Term Incentive Plan, which reflects award
cancellations returned to the pool of available shares for legacy Pharmacia
commitments.  

64  |  2007
Financial Report    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

Although not required to do so,
historically, we have used authorized and unissued shares and, to a lesser
extent, shares held in our Employee Benefit Trust and treasury stock to satisfy
our obligations under these programs.  

   A. Impact on Net Income   

  The components of share-based
compensation expense and the associated tax benefit follow:  

(a)    

In 2006, we adopted the fair
 value method of accounting for stock options.  

Amounts capitalized as part of
inventory cost were not significant. In 2007 and 2006, the impact of
modifications under our cost-reduction initiatives to share-based awards was
not significant and, in 2005, the impact of modifications under the Pharmacia
restructuring program was not significant. Generally, these modifications
resulted in an acceleration of vesting, either in accordance with plan terms or
at management s discretion.  

   B. Stock Options   

  Stock options, which entitle the
holder to purchase, at the end of a vesting term, a specified number of shares
of Pfizer common stock at a price per share set equal to the market price of
Pfizer common stock on the date of grant, are accounted for at fair value at
the date of grant in the income statement beginning in 2006. These fair values
are generally amortized on an even basis over the vesting term into  Cost of sales, Selling, informational and
administrative expenses  and  Research
and development expenses,  as appropriate.  

  In 2005 and earlier years, stock
options were accounted for under APB No. 25, using the intrinsic value method
in the income statement and fair value information was disclosed. In these
disclosures of fair value, we allocated stock option compensation expense based
on the nominal vesting period, rather than the expected time to achieve
retirement eligibility. In 2006, we changed our method of allocating stock
option compensation expense to a method based on the substantive vesting period
for all new awards, while continuing to allocate outstanding nonvested awards
not yet recognized as of December 31, 2005, under the nominal vesting period
method. Specifically, under this prospective change in accounting policy,
compensation expense related to stock options granted prior to 2006, that are
subject to accelerated vesting upon retirement eligibility, is being recognized
over the vesting term of the grant, even though the service period after
retirement eligibility is not considered to be a substantive vesting
requirement. The impact of this change was not significant.  

  All employees may receive stock
option grants. In virtually all instances, stock options vest after three years
of continuous   

service from the grant date and have a contractual term of ten
years; for certain grants to certain members of management, vesting typically
occurs in equal annual installments after three, four and five years from the
grant date. In all cases, even for stock options that are subject to accelerated
vesting upon voluntary retirement, stock options must be held for at least one
year from grant date before any vesting may occur. In the event of a
divestiture or restructuring, options held by employees are immediately vested
and are exercisable from three months to their remaining term, depending on
various conditions.  

  The fair value of each stock option
grant is estimated on the grant date using, for virtually all grants, the
Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model, which incorporates a number of valuation
assumptions noted in the following table, shown at their weighted-average
values:  

(a)    

Determined in 2007 and 2006,
 using a constant dividend yield during the expected term of the option. In
 2005, determined using a historical pattern of dividend payments.  

(b)    

Determined using the extrapolated
 yield on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues.  

(c)    

Determined using implied
 volatility, after consideration of historical volatility.  

(d)    

Determined using historical
 exercise and post-vesting termination patterns.  

Starting in the first quarter of
2006, we changed our method of estimating expected stock price volatility to reflect
market-based inputs under emerging stock option valuation considerations. We
use the implied volatility in a long-term traded option, after consideration of
historical volatility. In 2005, we used an average term structure of volatility
after consideration of historical volatility.  

2007 Financial Report  |  65    

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

The following table summarizes all
stock option activity during 2007, 2006 and 2005:  

(a)    

Market price of underlying Pfizer
 common stock less exercise price.  

(b)    

The number of options expected to
 vest takes into account an estimate of expected forfeitures.  

The following table provides data
related to all stock option activity:  

C. Restricted Stock Units   

  RSUs, which entitle the holder to
receive, at the end of a vesting term, a specified number of shares of Pfizer
common stock,   

including shares resulting from dividend equivalents paid on such
RSUs, are accounted for at fair value at the date of grant. For RSUs granted in
2007, in virtually all instances, the units vest after three years of
continuous service from the grant date and the fair values are amortized on an
even basis over the vesting term into  Cost
of sales, Selling, informational and administrative expenses  and  Research and development expenses,  as
appropriate. For RSUs granted in 2006 and 2005, the units vest in substantially
equal portions each year over five years of continuous service and the fair
value related to each year s portion is then amortized evenly into  Cost of sales, Selling, informational and
administrative expenses  and  Research
and development expenses,  as appropriate. For certain members of
senior and key management, vesting may occur after three years of continuous
service.  

  The fair value of each RSU grant is
estimated on the grant date. For RSUs granted in 2007, the fair value is set
using the closing price of Pfizer common stock on the date of grant. For RSUs
granted in 2006 and 2005, the fair value is set using the average price of
Pfizer common stock on the date of grant.  

  The following table summarizes all
RSU activity during 2007, 2006 and 2005: 

The following table provides data
related to all RSU activity: 

66  |  2007
Financial Report    

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

D. Performance Share Awards (PSAs) and Performance-Contingent Share
Awards (PCSAs)   

  PSAs in 2007 and 2006, and PCSAs in
2005 and earlier, entitle the holder to receive, at the end of a vesting term,
a number of shares of our common stock, within a specified range of shares,
calculated using a non-discretionary formula that measures our performance
relative to an industry peer group. PSAs are accounted for at fair value at the
date of grant in the income statement beginning with grants in 2006. Further,
PSAs are generally amortized on an even basis over the vesting term into  Cost of sales, Selling, informational and
administrative expenses  and  Research
and development expenses,  as appropriate. For grants in 2005 and
earlier years, PCSA grants are accounted for using the intrinsic value method
in the income statement. Senior and other key members of management may receive
PSA and PCSA grants. In most instances, PSA grants vest after three years and
PCSA grants vest after five years of continuous service from the grant date. In
certain instances, PCSA grants vest over two to four years of continuous
service from the grant date. The vesting terms are equal to the contractual
terms.  

  The 2004 Plan limitations on the
maximum amount of share-based awards apply to all awards, including PCSA and
PSA grants. In 2001, our shareholders approved the 2001 Performance-Contingent
Share Award Plan (the 2001 Plan), allowing a maximum of 12.5 million shares to
be awarded to all participants. This maximum was applied to awards for
performance periods beginning after January 1, 2002 through 2004. The 2004 Plan
is the only plan under which share-based awards may be granted in the future.  

  PSA grants made in 2007 and 2006 will
vest and be paid based on a non-discretionary formula that measures our
performance using relative total shareholder return over a performance period
relative to an industry peer group. If our minimum performance in the measure
is below the threshold level relative to the peer group, then no shares will be
paid. PCSA grants made prior to 2006 will vest and be paid based on a
non-discretionary formula, which measures our performance using relative total
shareholder return and relative change in diluted EPS over a performance period
relative to an industry peer group. If our minimum performance in the measures
is below the threshold level relative to the peer group, then no shares will be
paid.  

  As of January 1, 2006, we measure PSA
grants at fair value, using a Monte Carlo simulation model, times the target
number of shares. The target number of shares is determined by reference to the
fair value of share-based awards to similar employees in the industry peer
group. We measure PCSA grants at intrinsic value whereby the probable award was
allocated over the term of the award, then the resultant shares are adjusted to
the fair value of our common stock at each accounting period until the date of
payment.  

The following table summarizes all
PSA and PCSA activity during 2007, 2006 and 2005, with the shares granted
representing the maximum award that could be achieved:  

(a)    

Forfeited includes nil in 2007,
 345 thousand shares in 2006 and 454 thousand shares in 2005 that were
 forfeited by retirees. At the discretion of the Compensation Committee of our
 Board of Directors, $9.0 million in 2006 and $11.9 million in 2005 were paid
 in cash to such retirees, which amounts were equivalent to the fair value of
 the forfeited shares pro rated for the portion of the performance period that
 was completed prior to retirement.   

(b)    

Includes modifications to PCSA
 and PSA awards to pro rate the awards for services to the date of termination
 for 34 employees.  The modifications were made at
the discretion of the Board of Directors, the Executive Leadership Team or the
current Chairman. There was no incremental cost related to the modifications.  

The following table provides data
related to all PSA and PCSA activity:  

We entered into forward-purchase
contracts that partially offset the potential impact on net income of our
obligation under the pre-2006 PCSAs. At settlement date, we would, at the
option of the counterparty to each of the contracts, either receive our own
stock or settle the contracts for cash. We had contracts for approximately 3
million shares of our stock at a per share price  

2007 Financial Report  |  67    

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements     
   Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

of $33.85 outstanding as of December
31, 2006. The contracts matured early in 2007.  

  The financial statements include the
following items related to these contracts:  

   Prepaid expenses
and taxes   in 2006 includes:   

fair value of these contracts.  

Other (income)/deductions net   includes:   

changes in the fair value of these contracts.  

E. Restricted Stock   

  Restricted stock grants, which
entitle the holder to receive, at the end of a vesting term, a specified number
of shares of our common stock, and which also entitle the holder to receive
dividends paid on such grants, are accounted for at fair value at the date of
grant.  

  Senior and key members of management
received restricted stock awards prior to 2005. In most instances, restricted
stock grants vest after three years of continuous service from the grant date.
The vesting terms are equal to the contractual terms. These awards have not
been significant.  

   F. Transition Information   

  The following table shows the effect
on results for 2005 as if we had applied the fair-value-based recognition
provisions to measure stock-based compensation expense for the option grants:  

(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, EXCEPT PER
  COMMON SHARE DATA)  

YEAR  
  ENDED 
  DEC. 31, 
  2005   

Net income
  available to common shareholders used in the calculation of basic earnings
  per common share:  

As reported
  under U.S. GAAP (a)   

$  

8,079  

Compensation
  expense net of tax (b)   

(457  

)  

Pro forma  

$  

7,622  

Basic
  earnings per common share:  

As reported
  under U.S. GAAP (a)   

$  

1.10  

Compensation
  expense net of tax (b)   

(0.06  

)  

Pro forma  

$  

1.04  

Net income
  available to common shareholders used in the calculation of diluted earnings
  per common share:  

As reported
  under U.S. GAAP (a)   

$  

8,080  

Compensation
  expense net of tax (b)   

(457  

)  

Pro forma  

$  

7,623  

Diluted
  earnings per common share:  

As reported
  under U.S. GAAP (a)   

$  

1.09  

Compensation
  expense net of tax (b)   

(0.06  

)  

Pro forma  

$  

1.03  

(a)    

Includes stock-based compensation
  expense, net of related tax effects, of $107 million (of which $70 million
  related to RSUs and a nominal amount was a result of acceleration of vesting
  due to our cost-reduction initiatives).  

(b)    

Pro forma compensation expense
  related to stock options that are subject to accelerated vesting upon
  retirement is recognized over the period of employment up to the vesting date
  of the grant.  

17.    Earnings
per Common Share    

  Basic and diluted EPS were computed
using the following common share data:  

(a)    

These common stock equivalents
  were outstanding during 2007, 2006 and 2005, but were not included in the
  computation of diluted EPS for those years because their inclusion would have
  had an anti-dilutive effect.  

68    |    2007
Financial Report     

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

18.    Lease Commitments    

  We lease properties and equipment for
use in our operations. In addition to rent, the leases may require us to pay
directly for taxes, insurance, maintenance and other operating expenses, or to
pay higher rent when operating expenses increase. Rental expense, net of
sublease income, was $398 million in 2007, $420 million in 2006 and $410
million in 2005. This table shows future minimum rental commitments under
noncancellable operating leases as of December 31 for the following years:  

19.    Insurance    

  Our insurance coverage reflects
market conditions (including cost and availability) existing at the time it is
written, and our decision to obtain insurance coverage or to self-insure varies
accordingly. Depending upon the cost and availability of insurance and the
nature of the risk involved, the amount of self-insurance may be significant.
The cost and availability of coverage have resulted in our decision to
self-insure certain exposures, including product liability. If we incur
substantial liabilities that are not covered by insurance or substantially
exceed insurance coverage and that are in excess of existing accruals, there
could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any
particular period (see Note 20.  Legal
Proceedings and Contingencies ).   

   20.    Legal Proceedings and Contingencies    

  We and certain of our subsidiaries
are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial,
securities, environmental and tax litigations and claims; government
investigations; and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the
ordinary course of our business. We do not believe any of them will have a
material adverse effect on our financial position.  

  Beginning in 2007 upon the adoption
of a new accounting standard, we record accruals for income tax contingencies
to the extent that we conclude that a tax position is not sustainable under a
 more likely than not  standard and we record our estimate of the potential tax
benefits in one tax jurisdiction that could result from the payment of income
taxes in another tax jurisdiction when we conclude that the potential recovery
is more likely than not. (See  Note 1D.
Significant Accounting Policies: New Accounting Standards  and  Note 8E. Taxes on Income: Tax Contingencies. )
We record accruals for all other contingencies to the extent that we conclude
their occurrence is probable and the related damages are estimable, and we
record anticipated recoveries under existing insurance contracts when assured
of recovery. If a range of liability is probable and estimable and some amount
within the range appears to be a better estimate than any other amount within
the range, we accrue that amount. If a range of liability is probable and
estimable and no amount within the range appears to be a better estimate than
any other amount within the range, we accrue the minimum of such probable
range. Many claims involve highly complex issues relating to causation, label
warnings, scientific evidence, actual damages and other matters. Often these
issues are subject to substantial   

uncertainties and, therefore, the probability
of loss and an estimation of damages are difficult to ascertain. Consequently,
we cannot reasonably estimate the maximum potential exposure or the range of
possible loss in excess of amounts accrued for these contingencies. These
assessments can involve a series of complex judgments about future events and can
rely heavily on estimates and assumptions (see  Note
1B. Significant Accounting Policies: Estimates and Assumptions ). Our
assessments are based on estimates and assumptions that have been deemed
reasonable by management. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive
verdicts do occur. Although we believe we have substantial defenses in these
matters, we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of
claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations
in any particular period.  

  Patent claims include challenges to
the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes.
Although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with
respect to all our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the
outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a
loss of patent protection for the drug at issue, which could lead to a
significant loss of sales of that drug and could materially affect future
results of operations.  

  Among the principal matters pending
to which we are a party are the following:  

   A. Patent Matters   

  We are involved in a number of suits
relating to our U.S. patents, the majority of which involve claims by generic
drug manufacturers that patents covering our products, processes or dosage
forms are invalid and/or do not cover the product of the generic manufacturer.
Pending suits include generic challenges to patents covering, among other
products, atorvastatin (Lipitor), atorvastatin/amlodipine combination (Caduet),
celecoxib (Celebrex), tolterodine (Detrol and Detrol LA) and donepezil
hydrochloride (Aricept). Also, counterclaims as well as various independent
actions have been filed claiming that our assertions of, or attempts to
enforce, our patent rights with respect to certain products constitute unfair
competition and/or violations of the antitrust laws. In addition to the
challenges to the U.S. patents on a number of our products that are discussed
below, we note that the patent rights to certain of our products, including
without limitation Lipitor and Celebrex, are being challenged in various other
countries.  

   Lipitor (atorvastatin)   

  U.S.   basic patent: In July 2007, a
law firm that has represented Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Ranbaxy) in Lipitor
patent litigation filed a request for a reexamination of our basic Lipitor
patent with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (the Patent Office). The basic
patent, including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period, expires in March
2010. In August 2007, the Patent Office granted the request to reexamine the
basic patent on the merits. In January 2008, the Patent Office issued its
initial official action, rejecting the patent s claims. We will address the
issues raised by the examiner in our response to the Patent Office. An initial
rejection of a patent is not unusual in reexamination proceedings, and we
continue to believe that the basic patent was properly  

2007 Financial Report    |    69     

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies    

granted and will be upheld on
reexamination. This process could take a few years to complete.  

  U.S.   enantiomer patent: In January
2007, we filed a reissue application with the Patent Office seeking to correct
a technical defect in our patent covering the enantiomer form of atorvastatin.
The enantiomer patent, including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period,
expires in June 2011. In August 2007, the Patent Office issued its initial
official action, which determined that the technical defect had been corrected
but rejected the enantiomer patent on other grounds. In October 2007, we
submitted our response to the Patent Office. We continue to believe that we
have strong arguments for securing the reissued patent. This process also could
take a few years to complete.  

  Separately, in April 2007, Teva
Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva) notified us that it had filed an abbreviated
new drug application with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version
of Lipitor. Teva asserts the invalidity of our enantiomer patent and the
non-infringement of certain later-expiring patents, but does not challenge our
basic patent. In June 2007, we filed suit against Teva in the U.S. District
Court for the District of Delaware asserting the validity and infringement of
the enantiomer patent.  

  In addition, in October 2007, Cobalt
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Cobalt) notified us that it had filed an application
with the FDA seeking approval to market a product containing atorvastatin
sodium, a salt that is different from atorvastatin calcium, which is used in
Lipitor. The notice states that Cobalt is challenging our enantiomer patent and
certain later-expiring patents, but not our basic patent. In December 2007, we
filed suit against Cobalt in the U.S. District Court for the District of
Delaware asserting the validity and infringement of the enantiomer patent.  

  Canada   enantiomer patent: In
January 2007, the Canadian Federal Court in Toronto denied our application to
prevent approval of Ranbaxy s generic atorvastatin product based on our
enantiomer patent, which expires in July 2010. In February 2007, we appealed
that decision to the Federal Court of Appeal of Canada. The appeal was heard in
May 2007, and we are awaiting the decision. We also are seeking to prevent approval
of Apotex Inc. s (Apotex s) generic atorvastatin product based on our
enantiomer patent. A trial was held on this matter in October 2007 in the
Canadian Federal Court in Toronto and, on January 2, 2008, the court denied our
application. On January 3, 2008, we appealed the decision to the Federal Court
of Appeal of Canada.  

  Canada   certain other patents: In
September 2007, in a case against Ranbaxy, the Canadian Federal Court in
Toronto issued a decision concerning two other patents. First, the court ruled
that our patent covering a crystalline form of atorvastatin would be infringed
by Ranbaxy s process for making its proposed generic atorvastatin product. The
court granted our application for an order preventing Ranbaxy from launching
its product until the expiration of the patent in July 2016. In October 2007,
Ranbaxy appealed this decision to the Federal Court of Appeal of Canada. This
decision does not apply to any other generic manufacturer, including Apotex,
which is challenging the same patent and other crystalline patents in another
proceeding. Second, the Canadian Federal Court in Toronto denied our
application for a prohibition order against Ranbaxy in connection with another   

patent covering a process for making amorphous atorvastatin, which also expires
in July 2016.  

   Caduet (atorvastatin/amlodipine combination)   

  In January 2007, Ranbaxy notified us
that it had filed an abbreviated new drug application with the FDA seeking
approval to market a generic version of Caduet and asserting the invalidity of
our patents relating to atorvastatin and of our patent covering the
atorvastatin/amlodipine combination, which expires in 2018. In March 2007, we
filed suit against Ranbaxy in the U.S. District Court for the District of
Delaware asserting the validity and/or infringement of the subject patents. In
November 2007, the court granted our motion to dismiss Ranbaxy s challenge to
the validity of the atorvastatin (Lipitor) basic patent. The case continues
with respect to our assertion of infringement of the patent covering the
atorvastatin/amlodipine combination and, at such time as the atorvastatin
enantiomer patent is reissued in corrected form, Ranbaxy s challenge regarding
the validity of one claim of that patent.  

   Norvasc (amlodipine)   

  In 2006, the Federal Court of Appeal
    of Canada upheld the validity of our Norvasc patent in Canada in an action
    involving the generic manufacturer Ratiopharm. The Supreme Court of Canada
    denied Ratiopharm s
petition to appeal this decision. We also have filed legal challenges against
    certain other generic manufacturers who are seeking to market their own amlodipine
    products in Canada. In February 2008, a trial was held in the Federal Court
    of Canada in  Toronto in our challenge against Cobalt, and we are awaiting
    the decision. Our Norvasc patent in Canada expires in August 2010.  

   Celebrex (celecoxib)   

  In January 2004, Teva notified us
that it had filed an abbreviated new drug application with the FDA seeking
approval to market a product containing celecoxib and asserting the
non-infringement and invalidity of our patents relating to celecoxib. In
February 2004, we filed suit against Teva in the U.S. District Court for the
District of New Jersey asserting infringement of our patents relating to
celecoxib. In March 2007, the court held that all three of the patents in
dispute are valid and infringed and, in April 2007, it issued an injunction
prohibiting Teva from marketing its generic celecoxib product before 2015. In
April 2007, Teva appealed the decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit. The appeal was heard in January 2008, and we are awaiting the
decision.  

   Neurontin (gabapentin)   

  In August 2005, the U.S. District
Court for the District of New Jersey held that the generic gabapentin
(Neurontin) products of a number of generic manufacturers did not infringe our
gabapentin low-lactam patent, which expires in 2017, and it granted summary
judgment in their favor. Several generic manufacturers launched their
gabapentin products in 2004 and 2005. In September 2007, the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit reversed the District Court s summary judgment
decision and remanded the case to the District Court for trial on the
patent-infringement issue. If successful at trial, we intend to seek
compensation from the generic manufacturers for damages resulting from their
at-risk launches of generic gabapentin.  

   Detrol (tolterodine)   

  In March 2004, we brought a patent
infringement suit in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey
against Teva, which had filed an abbreviated new drug application with the FDA
seeking approval to market a generic version of Detrol. In January 2007, Teva
withdrew its challenge to our patent, and the patent infringement suit was
dismissed. At about the same time in January 2007, Ivax Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
(Ivax), a wholly owned subsidiary of Teva, amended its previously filed
abbreviated new drug application for tolterodine to challenge our tolterodine
patent, and we brought a patent infringement action against Ivax in the U.S.
District Court for the District of New Jersey.  

70    |    2007
Financial Report     

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

Detrol LA (tolterodine)   

  In October 2007, Teva notified us
that it had filed an abbreviated new drug application with the FDA challenging
on various grounds four patents relating to Detrol LA, an extended-release
formulation of Detrol (tolterodine), and seeking approval to market a generic
version of Detrol LA. In December 2007, we filed suit against Teva in the U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of New York asserting the infringement
of three of the patents relating to Detrol LA. In January 2008, Impax
Laboratories Inc. notified us that it had filed an abbreviated new drug
application with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of Detrol
LA and challenging the same four patents as Teva.  

   Aricept (donepezil hydrochloride)   

  In October 2005, Teva notified Eisai
Co., Ltd. (Eisai) that Teva had filed an abbreviated new drug application with
the FDA challenging on various grounds Eisai s U.S. basic product patent for
Aricept and seeking approval to market a generic version of Aricept. In
December 2005, Eisai filed suit against Teva in the U.S. District Court for the
District of New Jersey asserting infringement of that patent. We co-promote
Aricept with Eisai in the U.S.  

   Exubera   

  In August 2006, Novo Nordisk filed an
action against us in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
York alleging that our sales of Exubera infringed Novo Nordisk s patents
relating to inhaled insulin and methods of administration of inhaled insulin
and seeking damages and injunctive relief. The parties settled this action in
December 2007.  

   B. Product Litigation   

  Like other pharmaceutical companies,
we are defendants in numerous product liability cases, including but not
limited to those discussed below, in which the plaintiffs seek relief for
personal injuries and other purported damages allegedly caused by our drugs and
other products.  

   Rezulin   

  Rezulin was a medication that treated
insulin resistance and was effective for many patients whose diabetes had not
been controlled with other medications. Rezulin was voluntarily withdrawn by
Warner-Lambert in March 2000 following approval of two newer medications, which
the FDA considered to have similar efficacy and fewer side effects.  

  In 2003, we took a charge to earnings
of $975 million before-tax ($955 million after-tax) in connection with all
known personal injury cases and claims relating to Rezulin, and we settled many
of those cases and claims. Warner-Lambert continues to defend vigorously the remaining
personal injury cases and claims.  

  Warner-Lambert is also a defendant in
a number of suits, including purported class actions, relating to Rezulin that
seek relief other than damages for alleged personal injury. These suits are not
covered by the charge to earnings that we took in 2003. Motions to certify
statewide classes of Rezulin users or purchasers who allegedly incurred
economic loss have been denied by state courts in California and Texas and
granted by state courts in Illinois and West Virginia. The Illinois action was
settled in 2004, as previously reported. The West Virginia action was settled
in December 2007 on terms favorable to the Company.  

In 2005, the following actions were
consolidated for pre-trial proceedings in a Multi-District Litigation  (In Re Rezulin Product Liability Litigation MDL-1348)
 in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York:  

In April 2001, Louisiana Health Service Indemnity Company
  and Eastern States Health and Welfare Fund filed a consolidated complaint
  against Warner-Lambert in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District
  of New York purportedly on behalf of a class consisting of all health benefit
  providers that paid for or reimbursed patients for the purchase of Rezulin
  between February 1997 and April 2001. The action sought to recover amounts
  paid for Rezulin by the health benefit providers on behalf of their plan
  participants during the specified period. In September 2005, the court
  granted Warner-Lambert s motion for summary judgment and dismissed the
  complaint. In November 2005, the plaintiffs appealed the decision to the U.S.
  Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, and a hearing on the appeal was held
  in December 2006. In September 2007, the parties voluntarily withdrew the
  appeal and settled the action on terms favorable to Warner-Lambert.  

In May 2005, an action was filed in the U.S. District
  Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana purportedly on behalf of a
  nationwide class of third-party payors that asserts claims and seeks damages
  that are substantially similar to those that had been sought in the Louisiana
  Health Service Indemnity suit discussed immediately above. This action has
  been transferred to the Multi-District Litigation.  

An action was filed in July 2005 by the Attorney General
  of the State of Louisiana in the Civil District Court for Orleans Parish,
  Louisiana, against Warner-Lambert and Pfizer seeking to recover amounts paid
  by the Louisiana Medicaid program for Rezulin and for medical services to
  treat persons allegedly injured by Rezulin. This action was removed to the
  U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana and thereafter
  transferred to the Multi-District Litigation. The court granted our motion
  for summary judgment and dismissed the complaint in November 2007, and the
  Louisiana Attorney General appealed the decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals
  for the Second Circuit in December 2007.  

A number of insurance carriers
provided coverage for Rezulin claims against Warner-Lambert. We now have entered
into settlements with all of the carriers, resulting in recoveries to us of
$397 million.  

   Asbestos   

Quigley  

Quigley Company, Inc. (Quigley), a
wholly owned subsidiary, was acquired by Pfizer in 1968 and sold small amounts
of products containing asbestos until the early 1970s. In September 2004,
Pfizer and Quigley took steps that were intended to resolve all pending and
future claims against Pfizer and Quigley in which the claimants allege personal
injury from exposure to Quigley products containing asbestos, silica or mixed
dust. We took a charge of $369 million before-tax ($229 million after-tax) to
third quarter 2004 earnings in connection with these matters.  

2007 Financial Report    |    71     

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

In September 2004, Quigley filed a
petition in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York
seeking reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In March
2005, Quigley filed a reorganization plan in the Bankruptcy Court that needed
the approval of both the Bankruptcy Court and the U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of New York after receipt of the vote of 75% of the
claimants. In connection with that filing, Pfizer entered into settlement
agreements with lawyers representing more than 80% of the individuals with
claims related to Quigley products against Quigley and Pfizer. The agreements
provide for a total of $430 million in payments, of which $215 million became
due in December 2005 and is being paid to claimants upon receipt by the Company
of certain required documentation from each of the claimants. The
reorganization plan provided for the establishment of a Trust (the Trust) for
the payment of all remaining pending claims as well as any future claims
alleging injury from exposure to Quigley products.  

  As certified by the balloting agent
in May 2006, more than 75% of Quigley s claimants holding claims that
represented more than two-thirds in value of claims against Quigley voted to accept
Quigley s plan of reorganization. In August 2006, in reviewing the voting
tabulation methodology, the Bankruptcy Court ruled that certain votes that
accepted the plan were not predicated upon the actual value of the claim. As a
result, the reorganization plan was not accepted.  

  In June 2007, Quigley filed an amended plan of reorganization to address the Bankruptcy Court s concerns regarding the voting tabulation methodology. In July 2007, the Bankruptcy Court held a hearing to consider
the adequacy of Quigley s disclosure statement. In October 2007, the Bankruptcy Court granted Quigley s application to approve its disclosure statement. On February 26, 2008, the Bankruptcy Court authorized Quigley to solicit its amended
reorganization plan for acceptance by claimants. If approved by the claimants and the courts, the amended reorganization plan will result in a permanent injunction directing all pending and future claims alleging personal injury from exposure to
Quigley products to the Trust.  

  Under the amended reorganization plan
(as under the original reorganization plan), Pfizer will contribute $405
million to the Trust through a note, which has a present value of $172 million,
as well as approximately $100 million in insurance, and will forgive a $30
million secured loan to Quigley. In addition, Pfizer entered into an agreement
with the representative of future claimants that provides for the contribution
to the Trust of an additional amount with a present value of $88.4 million.  

  In December 2007, the Bankruptcy
Court modified its 2004 preliminary injunction order as it relates to Pfizer.
As a result, while asbestos claims against Pfizer that are based on alleged
exposure to a Quigley product remain stayed, asbestos claims that are not based
on alleged exposure to a Quigley product are no longer stayed.  

In a separately negotiated
transaction with an insurance company in August 2004, we agreed to a settlement
related to certain insurance coverage which provides for payments to us over a
ten-year period of amounts totaling $405 million.  

Other Matters  

Between 1967 and 1982, Warner-Lambert
owned American Optical Corporation, which manufactured and sold respiratory
protective devices and asbestos safety clothing. In connection with the sale of
American Optical in 1982, Warner-Lambert agreed to indemnify the purchaser for
certain liabilities, including certain asbestos-related and other claims. As of
December 31, 2007, approximately 106,000 claims naming American Optical and
numerous other defendants were pending in various federal and state courts seeking
damages for alleged personal injury from exposure to asbestos and other
allegedly hazardous materials. We are actively engaged in the defense of, and
will continue to explore various means to resolve, these claims. Several of the
insurance carriers that provided coverage for the American Optical asbestos and
other allegedly hazardous materials claims have denied coverage. We believe
that these carriers  position is without merit and are pursuing legal
proceedings against such carriers. Separately, there is a small number of
lawsuits pending against Pfizer in various federal and state courts seeking
damages for alleged personal injury from exposure to products containing
asbestos and other allegedly hazardous materials sold by Gibsonburg Lime
Products Company, which was acquired by Pfizer in the 1960s and which sold
small amounts of products containing asbestos until the early 1970s. There also
is a small number of lawsuits pending in various federal and state courts
seeking damages for alleged exposure to asbestos in facilities owned or
formerly owned by Pfizer or its subsidiaries.  

   Celebrex and Bextra   

  In 2003, several purported class
action complaints were filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of New
Jersey against Pharmacia, Pfizer and certain former officers of Pharmacia. The
complaints allege that the defendants violated federal securities laws by
misrepresenting the data from a study concerning the gastrointestinal effects
of Celebrex. These cases were consolidated for pre-trial proceedings in the
District of New Jersey ( Alaska Electrical
Pension Fund et al. v. Pharmacia Corporation et al. ). In January
2007, the court certified a class consisting of all persons who purchased
Pharmacia securities from April 17, 2000 through February 6, 2001 and were
damaged as a result of the decline in the price of Pharmacia s securities
allegedly attributable to the misrepresentations. Plaintiffs seek damages in an
unspecified amount. In October 2007, the court granted defendants  motion for
summary judgment and dismissed the plaintiffs  claims in their entirety. In
November 2007, the plaintiffs appealed the decision to the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit.  

  Pfizer is a defendant in product
liability suits, including purported class actions, in various U.S. federal and
state courts and in certain other countries alleging personal injury as a
result of the use of Celebrex and/or Bextra. These suits include a purported
class action filed in 2001 in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District
of New York as well as actions that have been filed since late 2004. In
addition, beginning in late 2004, purported class actions have been filed
against Pfizer in various U.S. federal and state courts and  

72    |    2007
Financial Report     

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies    

in certain other countries alleging
consumer fraud as the result of alleged false advertising of Celebrex and
Bextra and the withholding of information from the public regarding the alleged
safety risks associated with Celebrex and Bextra. The plaintiffs in these
consumer fraud actions seek damages in unspecified amounts for economic loss.
In September 2005, the U.S. federal product liability and consumer fraud
actions were transferred for consolidated pre-trial proceedings to a
Multi-District Litigation ( In re Celebrex
and Bextra Marketing, Sales Practices and Product Liability Litigation MDL-1699 )
in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. The
majority of the cases involving Celebrex are pending in the Multi-District
Litigation and in coordinated proceedings in the Supreme Court of the State of
New York. In late 2007 and early 2008, the courts in both of those actions
ruled that plaintiffs failed to present reliable scientific evidence necessary
to prove that Celebrex can cause heart attacks and strokes at the 200 mg daily
dose, which is the most commonly prescribed dose. These rulings render
inadmissible certain opinions of plaintiffs  experts, which we believe could
result in the dismissal of many of the Celebrex cases.  

  In July 2005, an action was filed by
the Attorney General of the State of Louisiana in the Civil District Court for
Orleans Parish, Louisiana, against Pfizer seeking to recover amounts paid by
the Louisiana Medicaid program for Celebrex and Bextra and for medical services
to treat persons allegedly injured by Celebrex or Bextra. The action also seeks
injunctive relief to prevent the sale of Celebrex and any resumption of the
sale of Bextra in Louisiana. This action was removed to the U.S. District Court
for the Eastern District of Louisiana and thereafter transferred for
consolidated pre-trial proceedings to the same Multi-District Litigation
referred to in the preceding paragraph.  

  Beginning in late 2004, actions,
including purported class and shareholder derivative actions, have been filed
in various federal and state courts against Pfizer, Pharmacia and certain
current and former officers, directors and employees of Pfizer and Pharmacia.
These actions include: (i) purported class actions alleging that Pfizer and
certain current and former officers of Pfizer violated federal securities laws
by misrepresenting the safety of Celebrex and Bextra; (ii) purported
shareholder derivative actions alleging that certain of Pfizer s current and
former officers and directors breached fiduciary duties by causing Pfizer to
misrepresent the safety of Celebrex and, in certain of the cases, Bextra; and
(iii) purported class actions filed by persons who claim to be participants in
the Pfizer or Pharmacia Savings Plan alleging that Pfizer and certain current
and former officers, directors and employees of Pfizer or, where applicable,
Pharmacia and certain former officers, directors and employees of Pharmacia,
violated certain provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974 (ERISA) by selecting and maintaining Pfizer stock as an investment
alternative when it allegedly no longer was a suitable or prudent investment
option. In June 2005, the federal securities, fiduciary duty and ERISA actions
were transferred for consolidated pre-trial proceedings to a Multi-District
Litigation ( In re Pfizer Inc. Securities,
Derivative and  ERISA  Litigation MDL-1688 ) in the U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York.  

  In July 2007, the purported federal
shareholder derivative action alleging breach of fiduciary duty was dismissed
by the court in the  

Multi-District Litigation. In August
2007, the plaintiffs appealed the decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit.  

   Trovan   

  In May 2007, the Attorney General of
the Federation of Nigeria filed civil and criminal actions in the Federal High
Court in Abuja against Pfizer, one of our Nigerian subsidiaries, and several
current and former U.S. and Nigerian employees, including a current Pfizer
director. Also in May 2007, the Attorney General of the State of Kano, Nigeria,
filed substantially similar civil and criminal actions in the High Court of
Kano State against substantially the same group of defendants. The federal
civil action was voluntarily withdrawn by the federal authorities in July 2007,
and a new federal civil complaint seeking substantially similar damages against
substantially the same group of defendants was filed shortly thereafter.  

  All of these actions arise out of a
1996 pediatric clinical study of Trovan, an antibiotic then in late-stage
development, that was conducted during a severe meningitis epidemic in Kano.
The actions allege, among other things, that the study was conducted without
proper government authorization and without the informed consent of the parents
or guardians of the study participants and resulted in injury or death to a
number of study participants. In the civil actions, the federal government is
seeking more than $6 billion in damages and the Kano state government is
seeking $2.075 billion in damages for, among other things, the costs incurred
to provide treatment, compensation and support for the alleged victims and
their families; the costs of unrelated health initiatives that failed,
allegedly due to societal misgivings attributable to the Trovan study; and
general damages. We believe that we have strong defenses in these actions.  

  The 1996 Trovan clinical study has
also been the subject of two civil lawsuits filed against Pfizer in the U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of New York on behalf of the study
participants. The District Court dismissed both cases in 2005, and those
decisions are on appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.  

   Hormone-Replacement Therapy   

  Pfizer and certain wholly owned
subsidiaries and limited liability companies, along with several other
pharmaceutical manufacturers, have been named as defendants in a number of
lawsuits in various federal and state courts alleging personal injury resulting
from the use of certain estrogen and progestin medications prescribed for women
to treat the symptoms of menopause. Plaintiffs in these suits allege a variety
of personal injuries, including breast cancer, stroke and heart disease.
Certain co-defendants in some of these actions have asserted indemnification
rights against Pfizer and its affiliated companies. The cases against Pfizer
and its affiliated companies involve the products femhrt (which Pfizer divested
in 2003), Activella and Vagifem (which are Novo Nordisk products that were
marketed by a Pfizer affiliate from 2000 to 2004), and Provera, Ogen,
Depo-Estradiol, Estring and generic MPA, all of which remain approved by the
FDA for use in the treatment of menopause. The federal cases have been
transferred for consolidated pre-trial proceedings to a Multi-District
Litigation ( In re Prempro Products Liability
Litigation MDL-1507 ) in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of Arkansas.  

2007 Financial Report    |    73     

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements 
   Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  

This litigation originally included
both individual actions as well as various purported nationwide and statewide
class actions. However, as a result of the voluntary dismissal of certain
purported class actions and the withdrawal of the class action allegations by
the plaintiffs in certain other actions, this litigation now consists of
individual actions and a few purported statewide class actions.  

   Viagra    A number of lawsuits, including
purported class actions, have been filed against us in various federal and
state courts alleging that Viagra causes certain types of visual injuries. The
plaintiffs in the purported class actions seek to represent nationwide and
certain statewide classes of Viagra users. All of the actions seek damages for
personal injury, and the purported class actions also seek medical monitoring.
In January 2006, the federal cases were transferred for consolidated pre-trial
proceedings to a Multi-District Litigation ( In
re Viagra Products Liability Litigation MDL-1724 ) in the U.S.
District Court for the District of Minnesota.  

   Zoloft    A number of individual lawsuits have
been filed against us in various federal and state courts alleging personal
injury as a result of the purported ingesting of Zoloft.  

   Mirapex   A number of individual lawsuits
seeking damages have been filed against Pfizer and Boehringer Ingelheim
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (BIPI) in various U.S. federal and state courts and one
purported class action has been filed in Canada alleging that Mirapex, a
treatment for Parkinson s disease, causes certain impulse-control disorders. We
co-promoted Mirapex with BIPI until May 2005 but, as a result of the sale of
our interests in this product to BIPI, we no longer manufacture or sell
Mirapex. In June 2007, all of the U.S. federal cases were transferred for
consolidated pre-trial proceedings to a Multi-District Litigation ( In re Mirapex Products Liability Litigation MDL-1836 )
in the U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota.  

   Neurontin    A number of lawsuits, including
purported class actions, have been filed against us in various federal and
state courts alleging claims arising from the promotion and sale of Neurontin.
The plaintiffs in the purported class actions seek to represent nationwide and
certain statewide classes consisting of persons, including individuals, health
insurers, employee benefit plans and other third-party payors, who purchased or
reimbursed patients for the purchase of Neurontin that allegedly was used for
indications other than those included in the product labeling approved by the
FDA. In October 2004, many of the suits pending in federal courts, including
individual actions as well as purported class actions, were transferred for consolidated
pre-trial proceedings to a Multi-District Litigation ( In re Neurontin Marketing, Sales Practices and
Product Liability Litigation MDL-1629 ) in the U.S. District Court
for the District of Massachusetts. Purported class actions also have been filed
against us in various Canadian provincial courts alleging claims arising from
the promotion and sale of Neurontin.  

  In the Multi-District Litigation, in
August 2007, the court denied without prejudice plaintiffs  motion to certify a
nationwide class of all consumers and third-party payors who allegedly
purchased or reimbursed patients for the purchase of Neurontin for  off-label 
uses from 1994 through 2004. The court indicated that it  

would allow plaintiffs
to file a renewed motion for class certification under certain circumstances.
In December 2007, plaintiffs filed such a motion, which we intend to oppose. 

In June 2007, a Pennsylvania state
court certified a class of all individuals in Pennsylvania who allegedly
purchased Neurontin for  off-label  uses from 1995 to the present. The
plaintiffs seek a refund of amounts paid by class members for Neurontin.
Plaintiffs also are seeking certification of a statewide class of Neurontin
purchasers in an action pending in Kansas state court. State courts in New York
and New Mexico have declined to certify statewide classes of Neurontin
purchasers.  

  A number of individual lawsuits have
been filed against us in various U.S. federal and state courts and in certain
other countries alleging personal injury, suicide and attempted suicide as a
result of the purported ingesting of Neurontin. Certain of the U.S. federal
actions have been transferred for consolidated pre-trial proceedings to the
same Multi-District Litigation referred to in the first paragraph of this
section.  

   Lipitor   Beginning in September 2005, three
purported nationwide class actions were filed against us in various federal
courts alleging claims relating to the promotion of Lipitor. In January 2006,
two of the actions were voluntarily dismissed without prejudice. In the
remaining action, which was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of Florida, the plaintiffs alleged that the Company engaged in false
and misleading advertising in violation of state consumer protection laws by
allegedly promoting Lipitor for the prevention of heart disease in women
(regardless of age) and men over age 55 who in each case had no history of
heart disease or diabetes. The action sought monetary and injunctive relief,
including treble damages. Effective January 9, 2008, this action was
voluntarily dismissed with prejudice without any payment by the Company. In
addition, in 2005, a purported class action on behalf of residents of the
Province of Quebec was filed against us in Canada that asserts claims under Canadian
law and seeks relief substantially similar to the claims that had been asserted
and the relief that had been sought in the U.S. action.  

  In March and April 2006, six
purported class actions were filed against us in various federal courts
alleging claims relating to the promotion of Lipitor. In May 2006, five of the
actions were voluntarily dismissed without prejudice, and the plaintiffs in
those actions were added as plaintiffs in the remaining action. The complaint
in the remaining action, which was filed in the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of Illinois, alleges that, through patient and medical
education programs and other actions, the Company promoted Lipitor for use by
certain patients contrary to national cholesterol guidelines that plaintiffs
claim are a part of the labeled indications for the product. The plaintiffs
seek to represent nationwide and certain statewide classes consisting of health
and welfare funds and other third-party payors that purchased Lipitor for such
patients or reimbursed such patients for the purchase of Lipitor since January
1, 2002. The plaintiffs allege, among other things, fraud, unjust enrichment
and a violation of the federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations
Act ( RICO ) and certain state consumer fraud statutes and seek monetary and
injunctive relief, including treble damages. In September 2007, plaintiffs
filed an amended  

74  |  2007
Financial Report    

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies    

complaint adding allegations that,
primarily as the result of the Company s purported failure to fully disclose
the risks of alleged side-effects of Lipitor, the prices that plaintiffs paid
for Lipitor were higher than they otherwise would have been.  

  In 2004, a former employee filed a
 whistleblower  action against us in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of New York. The complaint remained under seal until September 2007,
at which time the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York declined
to intervene in the case. We were served with the complaint on December 19,
2007. Plaintiff alleges that, through patient and medical education programs,
written materials and other actions aimed at doctors, consumers, payors and
investors, the Company promoted Lipitor for use by certain patients contrary to
national cholesterol guidelines that plaintiff claims are a part of the labeled
indications for the product. Plaintiff alleges violations of the Federal Civil
False Claims Act and the false claims acts of certain states and seeks treble
damages and civil penalties on behalf of the U.S. Government and the specified
states as the result their purchase, or reimbursement of patients for the
purchase, of Lipitor allegedly for such  off-label  uses. Plaintiff also seeks
compensation as a whistleblower under those federal and state statutes. In
addition, plaintiff alleges that he was wrongfully terminated, in violation of
the anti-retaliation provisions of the Federal Civil False Claims Act, the
Civil Rights Act of 1964 and applicable New York law, for raising concerns
about the alleged  off-label  promotion of Lipitor and about alleged instances
of sexual harassment in the workplace, and he seeks damages and the
reinstatement of his employment.  

   C. Commercial and Other Matters   

   Average Wholesale Price Litigation    A number of states as well as most
counties in New York have sued Pharmacia, Pfizer and other pharmaceutical
manufacturers alleging that they provided average wholesale price (AWP)
information for certain of their products that was higher than the actual
prices at which those products were sold. The AWP is used to determine
reimbursement levels under Medicare Part B and Medicaid and in many
private-sector insurance policies and medical plans. The plaintiffs claim that
the alleged spread between the AWPs at which purchasers were reimbursed and the
actual prices was promoted by the defendants as an incentive to purchase
certain of their products. In addition to suing on their own behalf, many of
the plaintiff states seek to recover on behalf of individual Medicare Part B
co-payors and private-sector insurance companies and medical plans in their
states. These various actions generally assert fraud claims as well as claims
under state deceptive trade practice laws, and seek monetary and other relief,
including civil penalties and treble damages. Several of the suits also allege
that Pharmacia and/or Pfizer did not report to the states their best price for
certain products under the Medicaid program.  

  In addition, Pharmacia, Pfizer and
other pharmaceutical manufacturers are defendants in a number of purported
class action suits in various federal and state courts brought by employee
benefit plans and other third-party payors that assert claims similar to those
in the state and county actions. These suits allege, among other things, fraud,
unfair competition and unfair trade practices and seek monetary and other
relief, including civil penalties and treble damages.  

All of these state, county and
purported class action suits were transferred for consolidated pre-trial
proceedings to a Multi-District Litigation ( In
re Pharmaceutical Industry Average Wholesale Price Litigation MDL-1456 )
in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. Certain of the
state and private suits have been remanded to their respective state courts. In
November 2006, the claims against Pfizer in the Multi-District Litigation were
dismissed with prejudice; the claims against Pharmacia are still pending. 

Monsanto-Related Matters    In 1997, Monsanto Company (Former
Monsanto) contributed certain chemical manufacturing operations and facilities
to a newly formed corporation, Solutia Inc. (Solutia), and spun off the shares
of Solutia. In 2000, Former Monsanto merged with Pharmacia   Upjohn to form
Pharmacia Corporation (Pharmacia). Pharmacia then transferred its agricultural
operations to a newly created subsidiary, named Monsanto Company (New
Monsanto), which it spun off in a two-stage process that was completed in 2002.
Pharmacia was acquired by Pfizer in 2003 and is now a wholly owned subsidiary
of Pfizer.  

  In connection with its spin-off that
was completed in 2002, New Monsanto assumed, and agreed to indemnify Pharmacia
for, any liabilities related to Pharmacia s former agricultural business. New
Monsanto is defending and indemnifying Pharmacia for various claims and
litigation arising out of or related to the agricultural business.  

  In connection with its spin-off in
1997, Solutia assumed, and agreed to indemnify Pharmacia for, liabilities
related to Former Monsanto s chemical businesses. In addition, in connection
with its spinoff that was completed in 2002, New Monsanto assumed, and agreed
to indemnify Pharmacia for, any liabilities primarily related to Former
Monsanto s chemical businesses, including any such liabilities that Solutia
assumed. Solutia s and New Monsanto s assumption of and agreement to indemnify
Pharmacia for these liabilities apply to pending actions and any future actions
related to Former Monsanto s chemical businesses in which Pharmacia is named as
a defendant, including, without limitation, actions asserting environmental
claims, including alleged exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls.  

  In December 2003, Solutia filed a
petition in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York
seeking reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Solutia
asked the Bankruptcy Court to relieve it from liabilities related to Former
Monsanto s chemical businesses that were assumed by Solutia in 1997. In addition,
motions were filed by Solutia in the Chapter 11 proceeding and other actions
were filed in the Bankruptcy Court by Solutia and by a committee representing
the interests of Solutia s shareholders that sought to avoid all or a portion
of Solutia s obligations to Pharmacia.  

  In December 2003, Solutia filed an
action, also in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New
York, seeking a determination that Pharmacia rather than Solutia was
responsible for an estimated $475 million in healthcare benefits for certain
Solutia retirees. A similar action was filed in May 2004 in the same Bankruptcy
Court against Pharmacia and New Monsanto by a committee appointed to represent
Solutia retirees in the Bankruptcy Court proceedings.  

2007 Financial Report  |  75    

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

In February 2006, Solutia filed its plan of reorganization in the Bankruptcy Court. In November 2007, the Bankruptcy Court approved the plan of reorganization, and Solutia emerged from bankruptcy in February 2008.
Under the reorganization plan, all lawsuits filed against Pharmacia in the Bankruptcy Court by Solutia, the committee representing Solutia retirees and the committee representing Solutia's shareholders have been dismissed or withdrawn with prejudice
and without any payment by Pharmacia to Solutia or any other party.  

  Under the reorganization plan, Solutia's indemnity obligations to Pharmacia that arose in connection with Solutia's 1997 spin-off are shared between Solutia and New Monsanto. New Monsanto is financially responsible for
all environmental remediation costs at certain sites that Solutia never owned or operated. Solutia will continue to be financially responsible for all environmental remediation costs at sites that Solutia has owned or operated. The plan also
provides that Solutia will indemnify Pharmacia for any environmental remediation costs that Solutia continues to be liable for under the plan. In addition, the plan provides that New Monsanto is financially responsible for all current and future
personal injury tort claims related to Former Monsanto's chemical businesses that Solutia assumed in connection with the 1997 spin-off. Finally, under the plan, Pharmacia has been released from all healthcare and other benefit claims of Solutia
retirees.  

  Solutia's reorganization plan does not in any way affect the obligations undertaken by New Monsanto to indemnify Pharmacia for all liabilities that Solutia originally assumed in connection with the 1997 spin-off.  

   Securities Litigation    In December 2006, a purported class
action was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
York alleging that Pfizer and certain current officers and one former officer
of Pfizer violated federal securities laws by misrepresenting the safety and
efficacy of Torcetrapib and the progress of the development program for
Torcetrapib, a product candidate whose development program was terminated on
December 2, 2006. In April 2007, the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint
that, among other things, expanded the purported class period. Pursuant to the
amended complaint, the plaintiffs seek to represent a class consisting of all
persons who purchased Pfizer securities between January 19, 2005 and December
2, 2006 and were damaged as a result of the decline in the price of Pfizer s
stock, allegedly attributable to the misrepresentations, that followed the
announcement of the termination of the Torcetrapib development program. The
action seeks compensatory damages in an unspecified amount. On February 28,
2008, the court dismissed the amended complaint and granted the plaintiffs the opportunity to move to
replead.  

Pharmacia Cash Balance Pension Plan    In 2006, several current and former
employees of Pharmacia Corporation filed a purported class action in the U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of Illinois against the Pharmacia Cash
Balance Pension Plan (the Plan), Pharmacia Corporation, Pharmacia   Upjohn
Company and Pfizer Inc. Plaintiffs seek monetary and injunctive relief on
behalf of a class consisting of certain current and former participants in the
Plan who accrued a benefit in the Monsanto Company Pension Plan prior to its
conversion to a cash balance plan in 1997. In January 2002, after various
corporate reorganizations, certain of the assets and liabilities of the
Monsanto Company Pension Plan were transferred to the Plan. Plaintiffs claim
that the Plan violates the age discrimination provisions of the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 by providing certain credits to such
participants only to age 55. This action has been consolidated in the U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of Illinois ( Walker, et al., v. The Monsanto Company Pension Plan
et al. ) with purported class actions pending in the same court that
make largely similar claims against substantially similar cash balance plans
sponsored by Monsanto Company and Solutia Inc., two former affiliates of
Pharmacia.  

  In September 2007, the parties to the
action against the Plan submitted to the court an agreed-upon proposed order
that would permit the case to proceed as a class action. The court has not yet
acted on the proposed order.  

   Environmental Matters   In August 2007, the U.S. Department
of Justice (DOJ) proposed a civil penalty, in an amount that is not material to
the Company, to settle certain alleged violations of the Federal Clean Air Act
at our Groton, Connecticut manufacturing facility that were identified by the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in 2006. We are in discussions with
the DOJ and EPA to resolve this matter, and we have implemented corrective
actions to address all of the EPA s concerns.  

  We will be required to submit a
corrective measures study report to the EPA with regard to Pharmacia s
discontinued industrial chemical facility in North Haven, Connecticut.  

  We are a party to a number of other
proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, (CERCLA or Superfund) and
other state, local or foreign laws in which the primary relief sought is the
cost of past and/or future remediation.  

   D. Government Investigations and Requests for Information   

  Like other pharmaceutical companies,
we are subject to extensive regulation by national, state and local government
agencies in the U.S. and in the other countries in which we operate. As a
result, we have interactions with government agencies on an ongoing basis.
Among the investigations and requests for information by government agencies
are those discussed below. It is possible that criminal charges and fines
and/or civil penalties could result from pending government investigations,
including but not limited to those discussed below.  

76  |  2007 Financial Report    

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

The Department of Justice continues
to actively investigate the marketing and safety of our COX-2 medicines,
particularly Bextra. The investigation has included requests for information
and documents. We also have received requests for information and documents in
connection with threatened claims concerning the marketing and safety of Bextra
and Celebrex from a group of state attorneys general. We have been considering
various ways to resolve these matters.  

  Separately, the Department of Justice
continues to actively investigate certain physician payments budgeted to our
prescription pharmaceutical products. The investigation has included requests
for information and documents.  

  The Company has voluntarily provided
the Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission with
information concerning potentially improper payments made in connection with
certain sales activities outside the U.S. Certain potentially improper payments
and other matters are the subject of investigations by government authorities
in certain foreign countries, including the following: A wholly owned
subsidiary of Pfizer is under criminal investigation by various government
authorities in Italy with respect to gifts and payments allegedly provided to
certain doctors operating within Italy s national healthcare system. In Germany,
a wholly owned subsidiary of Pfizer is the subject of a civil and criminal
investigation with respect to certain tax matters. The Pfizer subsidiaries are
fully cooperating in these investigations.  

   E. Guarantees and Indemnifications   

  In the ordinary course of business
and in connection with the sale of assets and businesses, we often indemnify
our counterparties against certain liabilities that may arise in connection
with the transaction or related to activities prior to the transaction. These
indemnifications typically pertain to environmental, tax, employee and/or
product-related matters and patent infringement claims. If the indemnified
party were to make a successful claim pursuant to the terms of the
indemnification, we would be required to reimburse the loss. These
indemnifications are generally subject to threshold amounts, specified claim
periods and other restrictions and limitations. Historically, we have not paid
significant amounts under these provisions and, as of December 31, 2007,
recorded amounts for the estimated fair value of these indemnifications were
not significant.  

21.   

Segment,
  Geographic and Revenue Information   

Business Segments   We operate in the following business
segments:  

Pharmaceutical   

The Pharmaceutical segment includes products that prevent
  and treat cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, central nervous system
  disorders, arthritis and pain, infectious and respiratory diseases,
  urogenital conditions, cancer, eye disease, endocrine disorders and
  allergies.  

Animal Health   

The Animal Health segment includes products that prevent
  and treat diseases in livestock and companion animals.  

For our reportable operating segments
(i.e., Pharmaceutical and Animal Health), segment profit/(loss) is measured
based on income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on
income, minority interests and the cumulative effect of a change in accounting
principles. Certain costs, such as significant impacts of purchase accounting
for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs and costs related to our
cost-reduction initiatives and transition activity associated with our former
Consumer Healthcare business, are included in  Corporate/Other
 only. This methodology is utilized by management to evaluate our
businesses.  

  Certain income/(expense) items that
are excluded from the operating segments  profit/(loss) are considered
corporate items and are included in  Corporate/Other .
These items include interest income/(expense), corporate expenses (e.g.,
corporate administration costs), other income/(expense) (e.g., realized gains
and losses attributable to our investments in debt and equity securities),
certain performance-based and all share-based compensation expenses not
allocated to the business segments, significant impacts of purchase accounting
for acquisitions, certain milestone payments, acquisition-related costs,
intangible asset impairments and costs related to our cost-reduction
initiatives.  

  Each segment is managed separately
and offers different products requiring different marketing and distribution
strategies.  

  We sell our products primarily to
customers in the wholesale sector. In 2007, sales to our three largest U.S.
wholesaler customers represented approximately 18%, 12% and 10% of total
revenues and, collectively, represented approximately 20% of accounts
receivable as of December 31, 2007. In 2006, sales to our three largest U.S.
wholesaler customers represented approximately 20%, 13% and 11% of total
revenues and, collectively, represented approximately 26% of accounts
receivable as of December 31, 2006. These sales and related accounts receivable
were concentrated in the Pharmaceutical segment.  

  Revenues exceeded $500 million in
each of 12 countries outside the U.S. in 2007 and in each of 10 countries
outside the U.S. in 2006. The U.S. was the only country to contribute more than
10% of total revenues in each year.  

2007 Financial Report  |  77    

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

The following tables present segment, geographic and
  revenue information:  

(a)    

Corporate/Other
    includes our gelatin capsules
  business, our contract manufacturing business and a bulk pharmaceutical
  chemicals business, and transition activity associated with our former
  Consumer Healthcare business (sold in December 2006).  Corporate/Other  under  Segment profit/(loss)  also includes
  interest income/(expense), corporate expenses (e.g., corporate administration
  costs), other income/(expense) (e.g., realized gains and losses attributable
  to our investments in debt and equity securities), certain performance-based
  and all share-based compensation expenses, significant impacts of purchase
  accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs, intangible asset
  impairments and costs related to our cost-reduction initiatives.   

(b)    

Segment profit/(loss) equals  Income from continuing operations before provision
  for taxes on income, minority interests and the cumulative effect of a change
  in accounting principles.  Certain costs, such as significant
  impacts of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs
  and costs related to our cost-reduction initiatives and transition activity
  associated with our former Consumer Healthcare business, are included in  Corporate/Other  only. This methodology
  is utilized by management to evaluate our businesses.  

(c)    

In 2007,  Corporate/Other  includes: i)
  restructuring charges and implementation costs associated with our
  cost-reduction initiatives of $3.9 billion; (ii) significant impacts of
  purchase accounting for acquisitions of $3.4 billion, including acquired
  in-process research and development, intangible asset amortization and other
  charges; (iii) $2.8 billion of charges associated with Exubera. See  Note 4. Asset Impairment Charges and Other Costs
  Associated with Exiting Exubera ; (iv) net interest income of $1.1
  billion; (v) all share-based compensation expense; (vii) gain on disposal of
  assets and other of $174 million; (vii) transition activity associated with our   

former Consumer
  Healthcare business of $26 million in income; and (viii) acquisition-related costs of $11
  million.   

In 2006,  Corporate/Other  includes: (i)
  significant impacts of purchase accounting for acquisitions of $4.1 billion,
  including acquired in-process research and development, intangible asset
  amortization and other charges; (ii) restructuring charges and implementation costs associated with
  our cost-reduction initiatives of $2.1 billion; (iii) all share-based
  compensation expense; (iv) net interest income of $437 million; (v)
  impairment of the Depo-Provera intangible asset of $320 million; (vi) gain
  on disposals of investments and other of $173 million; and (vii) a research
  and development milestone due to us from sanofi-aventis of approximately $118
  million; and (viii) acquisition-related costs of $27
  million.  

In 2005,  Corporate/Other  includes: (i)
  significant impacts of purchase accounting for acquisitions of $4.9 billion,
  including acquired in-process research and development, intangible asset
  amortization and other charges; (ii) costs associated with
  the suspension of Bextra s sales and marketing of $1.2 billion; (iii) acquisition-related costs of $918
  million; (iv) restructuring charges and implementation costs associated with
  our cost-reduction initiatives of $763 million; (v) net
  interest income of $269 million; (vi) all share-based compensation expense;
  and (vii) gain on disposals of investments and other of $134 million.  

(d)    

Corporate assets are primarily
  cash, short-term investments and long-term investments and loans.  

(e)    

Certain production facilities are
  shared by various segments. Property, plant and equipment, as well as capital
  additions and depreciation, are allocated based on estimates of physical
  production.  

(f)    

Corporate/Other
    includes non-cash charges
  associated with purchase accounting related to intangible asset amortization
  of $3.0 billion in 2007, $3.2 billion in 2006 and $3.3 billion in 2005.   

78  |  2007 Financial Report    

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements  

Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  

(a)    

Includes operations in Puerto
  Rico.  

(b)     

Includes Canada, France, Italy,
  Spain, Germany, U.K., Ireland, Northern Europe and Central-South Europe.  

(c)     

Includes Japan, Australia, Korea,
  China, Taiwan, Thailand and India.  

(d)    

Includes South America, Central
  America, Mexico, Africa and the Middle East.  

(e)     

Long-lived assets include
  identifiable intangible assets (excluding goodwill) and property, plant and
  equipment.  

Revenues by Therapeutic Area   

2007 Financial Report  |  79   

Quarterly
Consolidated Financial Data (Unaudited) 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

Basic and diluted EPS are
  computed independently for each of the periods presented. Accordingly, the
  sum of the quarterly EPS amounts may not agree to the total for the year. 
   
   Acquisition-related in-process research
  and development charges  primarily includes amounts incurred in
  connection with our acquisitions of BioRexis and Embrex (see  Note 2. Acquisitions ).  

Restructuring
  charges and acquisition-related costs   includes restructuring charges primarily related to our
cost-reduction
  initiatives (see  Note 5. Cost-Reduction
  Initiatives ). 
   
  As of January 31, 2008, there were 231,737 holders of record of our common
  stock (symbol PFE).   

80  |  2007 Financial Report   

Quarterly Consolidated Financial Data
(Unaudited) 
   Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  

Basic and diluted EPS are
  computed independently for each of the periods presented. Accordingly, the
  sum of the quarterly EPS amounts may not agree to the total for the year.

Acquisition-related
  in-process research and development charges   primarily includes amounts incurred in connection with our
  acquisitions of PowderMed and Rinat (see Note 2. Acquisitions.)   

All
  financial information reflects our Consumer Healthcare business as
  discontinued operations (see  Note 3.
  Discontinued Operations ).  

Restructuring charges and acquisition-related
  costs  includes restructuring charges primarily related to our
  cost-reduction initiatives (see Note 5. Cost-Reduction Initiatives.)  

2007 Financial Report  |  81   

Financial Summary 
  Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies   

82  |  2007 Financial Report   

Financial Summary 
   Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies  

On April 16, 2003, Pfizer acquired
Pharmacia Corporation in a transaction accounted for as a purchase. All
financial information reflects the following as discontinued operations: our
Consumer Healthcare, in-vitro allergy and autoimmune diagnostic testing,
certain European generics, surgical ophthalmic, confectionery, shaving and
fish-care products businesses and the femhrt, Loestrin and Estrostep women s
health product lines, as applicable.  

2003   Integration costs of $808
  million and restructuring charges of $166 million related to our acquisition
  of Pharmacia in 2003.   

2002   Integration costs of $333
  million and restructuring charges of $167 million related to our merger with
  Warner-Lambert in 2000 and pre-integration costs of $94 million related to
  our pending acquisition of Pharmacia.  

(d)    

In 2005, as a result of adopting
  FIN 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset
  Retirement Obligations,  we recorded a non-cash pre-tax charge of
  $40 million ($23 million, net of tax). In 2003, as a result of adopting SFAS
  No. 143,  Accounting for Asset Retirement
  Obligations,  we recorded a non-cash pre-tax charge of $47 million ($30
  million, net of tax). In 2002, as a result of adopting SFAS No.142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,  we
  recorded pre-tax charges of $565 million ($410 million, net of tax).  

(e)    

Includes discontinued operations,
  (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 21. Segment, Geographic and Revenue Information. )  

(f)     

For 2005 through 2002, includes
  assets held for sale of our Consumer Healthcare business, and for 2004
  through 2002, also includes in-vitro allergy and autoimmune diagnostic
  testing, surgical ophthalmic, certain European generics, confectionery and
  shaving businesses and the femhrt, Loestrin and Estrostep women s health
  product lines.  

(g)    

Defined as long-term debt,
  deferred taxes, minority interests and shareholders  equity.  

Peer Group Performance Graph   

               Five Year
Performance    

Since 2005,
Pfizer s pharmaceutical peer group has consisted of the following companies:
Abbott Laboratories,
Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Eli Lilly and Company,
GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson   Johnson, Merck and Co., Schering-Plough
Corporation and Wyeth (New Peer Group). Prior to that, Pfizer s pharmaceutical
peer group was comprised of Abbot Laboratories, Baxter International, Bristol-Myers
Squibb Company, Colgate-Palmolive Company, Eli Lilly and Company, Johnson  
Johnson, Merck and Co., Schering-Plough Corporation and Wyeth (Old Peer Group).  

  We believe
that the companies included in the New Peer Group are more reflective of the
Company s core business, and therefore will provide a more meaningful
comparison of stock performance. We have included the New Peer Group in the
graph to show what the comparison to those companies would have been if the New
Peer Group had been in place during the periods shown on the graph.  

   2007 Financial Report  |  83   

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 12
 c52104_ex21.htm

-- Converted by SEC Publisher, created by BCL Technologies Inc., for SEC Filing 

EXHIBIT 21   
 
  SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY   
 
 The following is a list of subsidiaries of the Company as of December 31, 2007, omitting some subsidiaries which, considered in the aggregate, would not constitute a significant subsidiary.  

NAME  	 
	 
  Where Incorporated  	 

412357 Ontario Inc. 	 
	 
 Canada 	 

A S Ruffel (Mozambique) Limitada 	 
	 
 Mozambique 	 

A.S. Ruffel (Private) Limited 	 
	 
 Zimbabwe 	 

A/O Pfizer 	 
	 
 Russia 	 

Adenylchemie GmbH 	 
	 
 Germany 	 

Agouron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 	 
	 
 California 	 

Alginate Industries (Ireland) Ltd. 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

American Food Industries, Inc. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Andean Services S.A. 	 
	 
 Colombia 	 

Angiosyn, Inc. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Balverda S.R.L. 	 
	 
 Italy 	 

BINESA 2002, S.L. 	 
	 
 Spain 	 

Biocor Animal Health Inc. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Bioindustria Farmaceutici S.R.L. 	 
	 
 Italy 	 

Bioren, Inc. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

BioRexis Pharmaceutical Corporation 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Biosearch Manufacturing S.r.l. 	 
	 
 Italy 	 

Blue Whale Re Ltd. 	 
	 
 Vermont 	 

C.P. Pharmaceuticals International C.V. 	 
	 
 Netherlands 	 

Capsugel (Thailand) Co. Ltd. 	 
	 
 Thailand 	 

Capsugel Belgium BVBA 	 
	 
 Belgium 	 

Capsugel de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 	 
	 
 Mexico 	 

Capsugel France 	 
	 
 France 	 

Capsugel Healthcare Limited 	 
	 
 India 	 

Capsugel Japan Inc. (KK) 	 
	 
 Japan 	 

Capsugel Ploermel 	 
	 
 France 	 

CARDEL 	 
	 
 France 	 

Centrofarma, Sociedad Anonima 	 
	 
 Guatemala 	 

Ceuticlab Laboratorios de Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda. 	 
	 
 Portugal 	 

Charlie Papa Operations, LLC 	 
	 
 New Jersey 	 

CHC Direct LLC 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Compania Farmaceutica Upjohn, S.A. 	 
	 
 Guatemala 	 

Consumer Health Products (Minority Interests) Company 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

Continental Farmaceutica, S.L. 	 
	 
 Spain 	 

Continental Pharma, Inc. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Davis Medica, Sociedad Limitada, Sociedad Unipersonal 	 
	 
 Spain 	 

Distribuidora Mercantil Centro Americana, S.A. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Duchem Laboratories Limited 	 
	 
 India 	 

Embrex Bio-Tech Trade (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 	 
	 
 People s Republic of China 	 

Embrex De Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. 	 
	 
 Mexico 	 

Embrex Europe Limited 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

Embrex France 	 
	 
 France 	 

Embrex Iberica s.l. 	 
	 
 Spain 	 

Embrex Poultry Health, LLC 	 
	 
 North Carolina 	 

Embrex Sales, Inc. 	 
	 
 North Carolina 	 

Embrex, Inc. 	 
	 
 North Carolina 	 

Esperion LUV Development, Inc. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Esperion Therapeutics, Inc. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Farminova Produtos Farmaceuticos de Inovacao, Lda. 	 
	 
 Portugal 	 

Farmitalia Carlo Erba Limited 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

Farmogene Productos Farmaceuticos Lda. 	 
	 
 Portugal 	 

G. D. Searle   Co. Limited 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

G. D. Searle (Thailand) Limited 	 
	 
 Thailand 	 

G. D. Searle International Capital LLC 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

G. D. Searle LLC 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

G. D. Searle South Africa (Pty) Ltd. 	 
	 
 South Africa 	 

G decke GmbH 	 
	 
 Germany 	 

G decke OTC Beteiligungs GmbH 	 
	 
 Germany 	 

Greenstone LLC 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Hepar Contribution LLC 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Idun Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Inovoject do Brasil Limitada 	 
	 
 Brazil 	 

International Affiliated Corporation LLC 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Invicta Farma, S.A. 	 
	 
 Spain 	 

J B Tillott Limited 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

Jouveinal Holland B.V. 	 
	 
 Netherlands 	 

Kenfarma, S.A. 	 
	 
 Spain 	 

Keystone Chemurgic Corporation 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Kiinteist  oy Espoon Pellavaniementie 14 	 
	 
 Finland 	 

Kiinteist  Oy Helsingin Tietokuja 	 
	 
 Finland 	 

Kommanditbolaget Hus Gron 	 
	 
 Sweden 	 

Korea Pharma Holding Company Limited 	 
	 
 Hong Kong 	 

Laboratoires Pfizer SA 	 
	 
 Morocco 	 

Laboratorios Laprofa, Sociedad Anonima 	 
	 
 Guatemala 	 

Laboratorios Parke Davis, S.L. 	 
	 
 Spain 	 

Laboratorios Pfizer Ltda. 	 
	 
 Brazil 	 

Laborat rios Pfizer, Lda. 	 
	 
 Portugal 	 

Lothian Developments V SPRL 	 
	 
 Belgium 	 

MED Urological, Inc. 	 
	 
 Minnesota 	 

Mederio AG 	 
	 
 Switzerland 	 

Meridica Limited 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

Monterey Kelp Corporation 	 
	 
 California 	 

MTG Divestitures Handels GmbH 	 
	 
 Austria 	 

MTG Divestitures Limited 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

MTG Divestitures LLC 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Nefox Farma, S.A. 	 
	 
 Spain 	 

Nostrum Farma, S.A. 	 
	 
 Spain 	 

O.C.T. (Thailand) Ltd. 	 
	 
 Thailand 	 

Orsim 	 
	 
 France 	 

PanServ Personalberatungs- und Anzeigenservice GmbH 	 
	 
 Germany 	 

Paris Montrouge II (Nederland) B.V. 	 
	 
 Netherlands 	 

Paris Montrouge II SARL 	 
	 
 France 	 

Parke Davis   Co. Limited 	 
	 
 Isle of Jersey 	 

Parke Davis International Limited 	 
	 
 Bahamas 	 

Parke Davis Productos Farmaceuticos Lda. 	 
	 
 Portugal 	 

Parke Davis Pty Limited 	 
	 
 Australia 	 

Parke, Davis   Company Limited 	 
	 
 Pakistan 	 

Parke, Davis   Company LLC 	 
	 
 Michigan 	 

Parke-Davis GmbH 	 
	 
 Germany 	 

Parke-Davis Manufacturing Corp. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Parke-Davis Sales Corporation 	 
	 
 Virgin Islands 	 

P-D Co., Inc. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Pfidev3 (S.A.S.) 	 
	 
 France 	 

Pfidev4 (S.A.S.) 	 
	 
 France 	 

Pfizer (China) Research and Development Co. Ltd. 	 
	 
 People s Republic of China 	 

Pfizer (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 	 
	 
 Malaysia 	 

Pfizer (Perth) Pty Limited 	 
	 
 Australia 	 

Pfizer (S.A.S.) 	 
	 
 France 	 

Pfizer (Thailand) Limited 	 
	 
 Thailand 	 

Pfizer A.G. 	 
	 
 Switzerland 	 

Pfizer A/S 	 
	 
 Norway 	 

Pfizer AB 	 
	 
 Sweden 	 

Pfizer Africa   Middle East for Pharmaceuticals, Animal Health   	 

Chemicals S.A.E. 	 
	 
 Egypt 	 

Pfizer Afrique de L Ouest 	 
	 
 Senegal 	 

Pfizer Algerie Sante et Nutrition Animale s.p.a. 	 
	 
 Algeria 	 

Pfizer Animal Health B.V. 	 
	 
 Netherlands 	 

Pfizer Animal Health Korea Ltd. 	 
	 
 South Korea 	 

Pfizer Animal Health MA EEIG 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

Pfizer Animal Health SA 	 
	 
 Belgium 	 

Pfizer ApS 	 
	 
 Denmark 	 

Pfizer Asia Contract Operations Pte. Ltd. 	 
	 
 Singapore 	 

Pfizer Asia Holdings B.V. 	 
	 
 Netherlands 	 

Pfizer Asia Manufacturing PTE. Ltd. 	 
	 
 Singapore 	 

Pfizer Asia Pacific Pte Ltd. 	 
	 
 Singapore 	 

Pfizer Australia Holdings Pty Limited 	 
	 
 Australia 	 

Pfizer Australia Pty Limited 	 
	 
 Australia 	 

Pfizer Australia Superannuation Pty Ltd. 	 
	 
 Australia 	 

Pfizer B.V. 	 
	 
 Netherlands 	 

Pfizer Berlin GmbH 	 
	 
 Germany 	 

Pfizer Beteiligungs-G.m.b.H. 	 
	 
 Germany 	 

Pfizer Bolivia S.A. 	 
	 
 Bolivia 	 

Pfizer Canada Inc. 	 
	 
 Canada 	 

Pfizer Caribe Limited 	 
	 
 Guernsey 	 

Pfizer Chile S.A. 	 
	 
 Chile 	 

Pfizer Cia. Ltda. 	 
	 
 Ecuador 	 

Pfizer Consumer Inc. 	 
	 
 Japan 	 

Pfizer Continental Holdings SARL 	 
	 
 Luxembourg 	 

Pfizer Continental Services LLC 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Pfizer Convention III LLC 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Pfizer Convention IV LLC 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Pfizer Co-Promotions Limited 	 
	 
 Isle of Jersey 	 

Pfizer Cork Limited 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

Pfizer Corporation 	 
	 
 Panama 	 

Pfizer Corporation Austria Gesellschaft m.b.H. 	 
	 
 Austria 	 

Pfizer Corporation Hong Kong Limited 	 
	 
 Hong Kong 	 

Pfizer Croatia d.o.o. 	 
	 
 Croatia 	 

Pfizer Deutschland GmbH 	 
	 
 Germany 	 

Pfizer Distribution Company 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

Pfizer Distribution Services 	 
	 
 Belgium 	 

Pfizer Domestic Ventures Limited 	 
	 
 Isle of Jersey 	 

Pfizer Dominicana, S.A. 	 
	 
 Dominican Republic 	 

Pfizer Egypt S.A.E. 	 
	 
 Egypt 	 

Pfizer Enterprises Inc. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Pfizer Enterprises SARL 	 
	 
 Luxembourg 	 

Pfizer ESP Pty Ltd. 	 
	 
 Australia 	 

Pfizer Europe Holdings SARL 	 
	 
 Luxembourg 	 

Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

Pfizer Europe Services LLC 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Pfizer European Service Center BVBA 	 
	 
 Belgium 	 

Pfizer Export AB 	 
	 
 Sweden 	 

Pfizer Export Company 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

Pfizer Finance GmbH   Co. KG 	 
	 
 Germany 	 

Pfizer Finance International 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

Pfizer Finance Share Service (Dalian) Co., Ltd. 	 
	 
 People s Republic of China 	 

Pfizer Finance Verwaltungs GmbH 	 
	 
 Germany 	 

Pfizer Financial Services NV/SA 	 
	 
 Belgium 	 

Pfizer Fundings International 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

Pfizer Global Holdings B.V. 	 
	 
 Netherlands 	 

Pfizer Global Investments SARL 	 
	 
 Luxembourg 	 

Pfizer Global Supply 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

Pfizer Global Trading 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

Pfizer GmbH 	 
	 
 Germany 	 

Pfizer Group Limited 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

Pfizer H.C.P. Corporation 	 
	 
 New York 	 

Pfizer Health AB 	 
	 
 Sweden 	 

Pfizer Health Solutions Inc. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Pfizer Healthcare Consultant (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 	 
	 
 People s Republic of China 	 

Pfizer Healthcare Ireland 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

Pfizer Hellas, A.E. 	 
	 
 Greece 	 

Pfizer HK Service Company Limited 	 
	 
 Hong Kong 	 

Pfizer Holding France (S.C.A.) 	 
	 
 France 	 

Pfizer Holding Italy S.p.A. 	 
	 
 Italy 	 

Pfizer Holding und Verwaltungs G.m.b.H. 	 
	 
 Germany 	 

Pfizer Holding Ventures 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

Pfizer Holdings B.V. 	 
	 
 Netherlands 	 

Pfizer Holdings Bermuda Ltd. 	 
	 
 Bermuda 	 

Pfizer Holdings Europe 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

Pfizer Holdings International Luxembourg (PHIL) Sarl 	 
	 
 Luxembourg 	 

Pfizer Holdings Luxembourg SARL 	 
	 
 Luxembourg 	 

Pfizer Holdings Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 	 
	 
 Mexico 	 

Pfizer Holdings Netherlands B.V. 	 
	 
 Netherlands 	 

Pfizer Holdings Turkey Limited 	 
	 
 Isle of Jersey 	 

Pfizer Hungary Asset Management LLC 	 
	 
 Hungary 	 

Pfizer Ilaclari Limited Sirketi 	 
	 
 Turkey 	 

Pfizer International Bank Europe 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

Pfizer International Corporation 	 
	 
 Panama 	 

Pfizer International Holdings 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

Pfizer International LLC 	 
	 
 New York 	 

Pfizer International Luxembourg SA 	 
	 
 Luxembourg 	 

Pfizer International Operations (S. A. S.) 	 
	 
 France 	 

Pfizer International Trading (Shanghai) Limited 	 
	 
 People s Republic of China 	 

Pfizer Inventory Co. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Pfizer Investment Capital 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

Pfizer Investment Co. Ltd. 	 
	 
 People s Republic of China 	 

Pfizer Ireland Pharmaceuticals 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

Pfizer Ireland Pharmaceuticals 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

Pfizer Ireland Ventures 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

Pfizer Italia S.r.l. 	 
	 
 Italy 	 

Pfizer Japan Inc. 	 
	 
 Japan 	 

Pfizer Jersey Capital Limited 	 
	 
 Isle of Jersey 	 

Pfizer Jersey Company Limited 	 
	 
 Isle of Jersey 	 

Pfizer Jersey Finance Limited 	 
	 
 Isle of Jersey 	 

Pfizer Laboratories (Pty) Limited 	 
	 
 South Africa 	 

Pfizer Laboratories Limited 	 
	 
 Kenya 	 

Pfizer Laboratories Limited 	 
	 
 Pakistan 	 

Pfizer Limitada 	 
	 
 Angola 	 

Pfizer Limited 	 
	 
 Taiwan 	 

Pfizer Limited 	 
	 
 Tanzania 	 

Pfizer Limited 	 
	 
 Thailand 	 

Pfizer Limited 	 
	 
 Uganda 	 

Pfizer Limited 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

Pfizer LLC 	 
	 
 Russia 	 

Pfizer Luxco Holdings Sarl 	 
	 
 Luxembourg 	 

Pfizer Luxco Production SARL 	 
	 
 Luxembourg 	 

Pfizer Luxembourg SARL 	 
	 
 Luxembourg 	 

Pfizer Manufacturing Belgium NV 	 
	 
 Belgium 	 

Pfizer Manufacturing Deutschland GmbH 	 
	 
 Germany 	 

Pfizer Manufacturing Frankfurt GmbH 	 
	 
 Germany 	 

Pfizer Manufacturing Frankfurt Verwaltungs GmbH 	 
	 
 Germany 	 

Pfizer Manufacturing LLC 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Pfizer Manufacturing Services 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

Pfizer Medical Technology Group (Belgium) N.V. 	 
	 
 Belgium 	 

Pfizer Middle East for Pharmaceuticals, Animal Health and 	 

Chemicals S.A.E.  

Egypt 	 

Pfizer Namibia (Proprietary) Limited 	 
	 
 Namibia 	 

Pfizer New Zealand Limited 	 
	 
 New Zealand 	 

Pfizer OTC B.V. 	 
	 
 Netherlands 	 

Pfizer OTC Beteiligungs GmbH 	 
	 
 Germany 	 

Pfizer Overseas LLC 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Pfizer Oy 	 
	 
 Finland 	 

Pfizer Participations SARL 	 
	 
 Luxembourg 	 

Pfizer Pension Trustees (Ireland) Limited 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

Pfizer Pension Trustees Ltd. 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

Pfizer PGM (S.A.S.) 	 
	 
 France 	 

Pfizer PGRD (S.A.S.) 	 
	 
 France 	 

Pfizer Pharm Algerie 	 
	 
 Algeria 	 

Pfizer Pharma GmbH 	 
	 
 Germany 	 

Pfizer Pharma Trade LLC 	 
	 
 Egypt 	 

Pfizer Pharmaceutical (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. 	 
	 
 People s Republic of China 	 

Pfizer Pharmaceutical India Pvt. Ltd. 	 
	 
 India 	 

Pfizer Pharmaceutical Trading Limited Liability 	 

Company (a/k/a Pfizer Kft. or Pfizer LLC)  

Hungary 	 

Pfizer Pharmaceuticals B.V. 	 
	 
 Netherlands 	 

Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Israel Ltd. 	 
	 
 Israel 	 

Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Jersey Limited 	 
	 
 Isle of Jersey 	 

Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Korea Limited 	 
	 
 South Korea 	 

Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Limited 	 
	 
 Cayman Islands 	 

Pfizer Pharmaceuticals LLC 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 	 
	 
 People s Republic of China 	 

Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Tunisie Sarl 	 
	 
 Tunisia 	 

Pfizer Pigments Inc. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Pfizer Polska Sp. z.o.o. 	 
	 
 Poland 	 

Pfizer Precision Holdings SARL 	 
	 
 Luxembourg 	 

Pfizer Prev - Sociedade de Previdencia Privada 	 
	 
 Brazil 	 

Pfizer Private Limited 	 
	 
 Malaysia 	 

Pfizer Private Ltd. 	 
	 
 Singapore 	 

Pfizer Production LLC 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Pfizer Products Inc. 	 
	 
 Connecticut 	 

Pfizer Products India Private Limited 	 
	 
 India 	 

Pfizer Romania SRL 	 
	 
 Romania 	 

Pfizer S.A. 	 
	 
 Colombia 	 

Pfizer S.A. 	 
	 
 Peru 	 

Pfizer S.G.P.S. Lda. 	 
	 
 Portugal 	 

Pfizer S.R.L. 	 
	 
 Argentina 	 

Pfizer SA (Belgium) 	 
	 
 Belgium 	 

Pfizer Saidal Manufacturing 	 
	 
 Algeria 	 

Pfizer Science and Technology Ireland Limited 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

Pfizer Service Company BVBA 	 
	 
 Belgium 	 

Pfizer Service Company Ireland 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

Pfizer Services 1 (S.N.C.) 	 
	 
 France 	 

Pfizer Services 2 (S.N.C.) 	 
	 
 France 	 

Pfizer Services LLC 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Pfizer Shared Services 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

Pfizer Shareholdings Intermediate SARL 	 
	 
 Luxembourg 	 

Pfizer Singapore Trading Pte. Ltd. 	 
	 
 Singapore 	 

Pfizer Specialities Ghana 	 
	 
 Ghana 	 

Pfizer Specialties Limited 	 
	 
 Nigeria 	 

Pfizer Sterling Investments Limited 	 
	 
 Isle of Jersey 	 

Pfizer Suzhou Animal Health Products Co., Ltd. 	 
	 
 People s Republic of China 	 

Pfizer Suzhou Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 	 
	 
 People s Republic of China 	 

Pfizer Technologies Limited 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

Pfizer Trading Polska sp.z.o.o. 	 
	 
 Poland 	 

Pfizer Tunisie SA 	 
	 
 Tunisia 	 

Pfizer UK Group Limited 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

Pfizer Vaccines LLC 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Pfizer Venezuela, S.A. 	 
	 
 Venezuela 	 

Pfizer Ventures Limited 	 
	 
 Isle of Jersey 	 

Pfizer Warner Lambert Luxembourg SARL 	 
	 
 Luxembourg 	 

Pfizer Zona Franca, S.A. 	 
	 
 Costa Rica 	 

Pfizer, Inc. 	 
	 
 Philippines 	 

Pfizer, S.A. 	 
	 
 Costa Rica 	 

Pfizer, S.A. 	 
	 
 Spain 	 

Pfizer, S.A. de C.V. 	 
	 
 Mexico 	 

Pfizer, spol. s r.o 	 
	 
 Czech Republic 	 

Pharmacia   Upjohn Cambridge Limited 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

Pharmacia   Upjohn Company LLC 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Pharmacia   Upjohn Company, Inc. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Pharmacia   Upjohn Holding Company 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Pharmacia   Upjohn LLC 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Pharmacia   Upjohn Management Company Limited 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

Pharmacia   Upjohn S.p.A. 	 
	 
 Italy 	 

Pharmacia   Upjohn Trading Corporation 	 
	 
 Michigan 	 

Pharmacia   Upjohn, S.A. de C.V. 	 
	 
 Mexico 	 

Pharmacia (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd. 	 
	 
 South Africa 	 

Pharmacia Africa Ltd. 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

Pharmacia Animal Health Limited 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

Pharmacia Asia Limited 	 
	 
 Hong Kong 	 

Pharmacia Australia Pty Ltd. 	 
	 
 Australia 	 

Pharmacia B.V. 	 
	 
 Netherlands 	 

Pharmacia Brasil Ltda. 	 
	 
 Brazil 	 

Pharmacia Corporation 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Pharmacia de Centroamerica S.A. 	 
	 
 Panama 	 

Pharmacia de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 	 
	 
 Mexico 	 

Pharmacia Diagnostics Verwaltungs GmbH 	 
	 
 Germany 	 

Pharmacia Europe EEIG 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

Pharmacia GmbH 	 
	 
 Germany 	 

Pharmacia Grupo Pfizer, S.L. 	 
	 
 Spain 	 

Pharmacia Hepar Inc. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Pharmacia Holding AB 	 
	 
 Sweden 	 

Pharmacia Ilac Sanayi ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi 	 
	 
 Turkey 	 

Pharmacia Inter-American LLC 	 
	 
 Michigan 	 

Pharmacia International B.V. 	 
	 
 Netherlands 	 

Pharmacia International Inc. 	 
	 
 South Dakota 	 

Pharmacia International SARL 	 
	 
 Switzerland 	 

Pharmacia Ireland Limited 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

Pharmacia Korea Ltd. 	 
	 
 South Korea 	 

Pharmacia Laboratories Limited 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

Pharmacia Learning Center Corporation 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Pharmacia Limited 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

Pharmacia Limited Company 	 
	 
 Michigan 	 

Pharmacia Little Island Limited 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

Pharmacia Malaysia Sdn Bhd. 	 
	 
 Malaysia 	 

Pharmacia Pharmatrade LLC 	 
	 
 Hungary 	 

Pharmacia Polska Sp.z.o.o. 	 
	 
 Poland 	 

Pharmacia S.A. 	 
	 
 Peru 	 

Pharmacia Searle Limited 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

Pharmacia Singapore Pte Ltd. 	 
	 
 Singapore 	 

Pharmacia UK Holding Company (in liquidation) 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

Pharmacia UK Limited 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

Pharmacia United, Inc. 	 
	 
 Philippines 	 

Pharmacia-Pfizer EEIG 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

PHS Sub, Inc. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

PowderJect Research Limited 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

PowderJect Therapeutics, Inc. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

PowderJect Vaccines, Inc. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

PowderMed Limited 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

PowderMed Vaccines, Inc. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

PowderMed, Inc. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

ProRe SA 	 
	 
 Luxembourg 	 

Prosec (Ireland) Limited 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

Prosec Forsakrings AB (Prosec Insurance Co. Ltd.) 	 
	 
 Sweden 	 

PT. Capsugel Indonesia 	 
	 
 Indonesia 	 

PT. Pfidex Pharma 	 
	 
 Indonesia 	 

PT. Pfizer Indonesia 	 
	 
 Indonesia 	 

Quigley Company, Inc. 	 
	 
 New York 	 

Renrall LLC 	 
	 
 Wyoming 	 

Rinat Neuroscience Corp. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Rivepar 	 
	 
 France 	 

Roerig B.V. 	 
	 
 Netherlands 	 

Roerig Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda. 	 
	 
 Portugal 	 

Roerig S.A. 	 
	 
 Chile 	 

Roerig, Inc. 	 
	 
 Philippines 	 

Roerig, S.A. 	 
	 
 Venezuela 	 

Searle   Co. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Searle Argentina S.R.L. 	 
	 
 Argentina 	 

Searle Belgium BVBA 	 
	 
 Belgium 	 

Searle Chemicals, Inc. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Searle de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 	 
	 
 Mexico 	 

Searle GmbH 	 
	 
 Germany 	 

Searle Holdings B. V. 	 
	 
 Netherlands 	 

Searle Invest B. V. 	 
	 
 Netherlands 	 

Searle Laboratorios, Lda. 	 
	 
 Portugal 	 

Searle LLC 	 
	 
 Nevada 	 

Searle Ltd. 	 
	 
 Bermuda 	 

Sefarma S.r.l. 	 
	 
 Italy 	 

Sensus Drug Development Corporation 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Shiley International 	 
	 
 California 	 

Shiley LLC 	 
	 
 California 	 

Sinergis Farma-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda. 	 
	 
 Portugal 	 

Site Realty, Inc. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

SmithKline Beecham Animal Health (SWA) (Pty) Ltd. 	 
	 
 Namibia 	 

Solinor Investments SARL 	 
	 
 Luxembourg 	 

Solinor LLC 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Substantia (S.A.S.) 	 
	 
 France 	 

Sugen, Inc. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Suzhou Capsugel Ltd. 	 
	 
 People s Republic of China 	 

Swordfish Holding GmbH 	 
	 
 Germany 	 

Tabor Corporation 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

The Pfizer Incubator LLC 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

The Kodiak Company Ltd. 	 
	 
 Bermuda 	 

The Upjohn Holding Company M LLC 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

The Upjohn Manufacturing Company LLC 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Thorney Company 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

Upjohn International Holding Company 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Upjohn International Inc. 	 
	 
 Michigan 	 

Upjohn Laboratorios Lda. 	 
	 
 Portugal 	 

Upjohn Pharmaceuticals Limited 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Vaccination Services S. de R. L. de C.V. 	 
	 
 Mexico 	 

Viagra Ltd. 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

Vicuron Pharmaceuticals Inc. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Vicuron Pharmaceuticals Italy S.r.l. 	 
	 
 Italy 	 

Vinci Farma, S.A. 	 
	 
 Spain 	 

Warner Lambert (UK) Limited 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

Warner Lambert Company (M) Sdn Bhd 	 
	 
 Malaysia 	 

Warner Lambert Consumer Healthcare Pty Limited 	 
	 
 Australia 	 

Warner Lambert del Uruguay S.A. 	 
	 
 Uruguay 	 

Warner Lambert Ilac Sanayi ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi 	 
	 
 Turkey 	 

Warner Lambert Poland Sp.z.o.o. 	 
	 
 Poland 	 

Warner Lambert Pty Limited 	 
	 
 Australia 	 

Warner Lambert Zimbabwe (Private) Limited 	 
	 
 Zimbabwe 	 

Warner-Lambert (East Africa) Limited 	 
	 
 Kenya 	 

Warner-Lambert (Nigeria) Limited 	 
	 
 Nigeria 	 

Warner-Lambert (Tanzania), Limited 	 
	 
 Tanzania 	 

Warner-Lambert (Thailand) Limited 	 
	 
 Thailand 	 

Warner-Lambert Company AG 	 
	 
 Switzerland 	 

Warner-Lambert Company LLC 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Warner-Lambert de El Salvador, S.A. de C.V. 	 
	 
 El Salvador 	 

Warner-Lambert de Honduras, Sociedad Anonima 	 
	 
 Honduras 	 

Warner-Lambert de Puerto Rico, Inc. 	 
	 
 Puerto Rico 	 

Warner-Lambert GmbH 	 
	 
 Germany 	 

Warner-Lambert Guatemala, Sociedad Anonima 	 
	 
 Guatemala 	 

Warner-Lambert Ireland 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

Warner-Lambert Kenya Limited 	 
	 
 Kenya 	 

Warner-Lambert Pottery Road Limited 	 
	 
 Ireland 	 

Warner-Lambert SA (Pty) Limited 	 
	 
 South Africa 	 

Warner-Lambert, S.A. 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Wilcox Sweets (Pty) Limited 	 
	 
 South Africa 	 

W-L (Europe) 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

W-L (Portugal) 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

W-L (Spain) 	 
	 
 United Kingdom 	 

WL de Guatemala, Sociedad Anonima 	 
	 
 Guatemala 	 

W-L LLC 	 
	 
 Delaware 	 

Yusafarm D.O.O. 	 
	 
 Serbia 	 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 13
 c52104_ex23.htm

Exhibit 23         
 
   Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm         
 
 To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Pfizer Inc:  
 
 We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Form 10-K of Pfizer Inc of our reports dated February 29, 2007, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies as of December 31,
2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders  equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2007, and all related financial statement schedules, and the effectiveness
of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, which reports appear in the December 31, 2007 annual report on Form-10K of Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies.   
 
 We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our reports in the following Registration Statements:  

New York, New York  
February 29, 2008     

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 14
 c52104_ex31-1.htm

-- Converted by SEC Publisher, created by BCL Technologies Inc., for SEC Filing 

Exhibit 31.1   
 
   Certification by the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to    
   Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002    
 
 I, Jeffrey B. Kindler, certify that:  
 
 1. I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of Pfizer Inc.;  
 
 2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  
 
 3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  
 
 4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:  
 
 (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant,
including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  
 
 (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  
 
 (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as
of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  
 
 (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected,
or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and  
 
 5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  
 
 (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability
to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  
 
 (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.  
 
 Date: February 29, 2008  
 
  /s/ Jeffrey B. Kindler   
 Jeffrey B. Kindler  
 Chairman of the Board  
 and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 15
 c52104_ex31-2.htm

-- Converted by SEC Publisher, created by BCL Technologies Inc., for SEC Filing 

Exhibit 31.2   
 
   Certification by the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to    
   Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002    
 
 I, Frank A. D Amelio, certify that:  
 
 1. I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of Pfizer Inc.;  
 
 2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  
 
 3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  
 
 4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:  
 
 (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant,
including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  
 
 (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  
 
 (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as
of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  
 
 (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected,
or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and  
 
 5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  
 
 (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability
to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  
 
 (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.  
 
 Date: February 29, 2008  
 
  /s/ Frank A. D Amelio   
 Frank A. D Amelio  
 Senior Vice President and  
 Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 16
 c52104_ex32-1.htm

-- Converted by SEC Publisher, created by BCL Technologies Inc., for SEC Filing 

Exhibit 32.1   
 
   Certification by the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U. S. C. Section 1350, as Adopted    
   Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002    
 
 Pursuant to 18 U. S. C. Section 1350, I, Jeffrey B. Kindler, hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Pfizer Inc. for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 (the
 Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition
and results of operations of Pfizer Inc.  
 
  /s/ Jeffrey B. Kindler   
 Jeffrey B. Kindler  
 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer  
 February 29, 2008  
 
 This certification accompanies this Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not, except to the extent required by such Act, be deemed filed by the Company for
purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ). Such certification will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the
Exchange Act, except to the extent that the Company specifically incorporates it by reference.  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 17
 c52104_ex32-2.htm

-- Converted by SEC Publisher, created by BCL Technologies Inc., for SEC Filing 

Exhibit 32.2   
 
   Certification by the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U. S. C. Section 1350, as Adopted    
   Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002    
 
 Pursuant to 18 U. S. C. Section 1350, I, Frank A. D Amelio, hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Pfizer Inc. for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007
(the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
condition and results of operations of Pfizer Inc.  
 
  /s/ Frank A. D Amelio   
 Frank A. D Amelio  
 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  
 February 29, 2008  
 
 This certification accompanies this Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not, except to the extent required by such Act, be deemed filed by the Company for
purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ). Such certification will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the
Exchange Act, except to the extent that the Company specifically incorporates it by reference.  

</EX-32.2>

