<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20110228_10-K_edgar_data_78003_0001193125-11-048877_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>58034191</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>723235</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>15884933</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2780480</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>14595875</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>23471809</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>243</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-11-048877.hdr.sgml : 20110228
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20110228100055
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-11-048877
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		22
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20101231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20110228
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20110228

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PFIZER INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000078003
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				135315170
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-03619
		FILM NUMBER:		11643519

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		235 E 42ND ST
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10017
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2125732323

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		235 E 42ND ST
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10017

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	PFIZER CHARLES & CO INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19710908

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 T+ZFXDEv0ZiSCyGbSe63JcbnXJo92pEf83gOJDEauERsWlc71mztRn/ark6EKwY1
 RAhnadkpa8k/T3b1YnhFOg==

 0001193125-11-048877.txt : 20110228

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549         
        FORM 10-K
             
   (Mark One)    
 
   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010        
 
   For the transition period from              to
                    Commission file number 1-3619    
         
   PFIZER INC.    
   (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)    

(212) 733-2323        (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)         
        Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:        

Title of each class    
      
     Name of each exchange   
       on which registered         
 
    Common Stock, $.05 par value   
      
  New York Stock Exchange    
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:    
   None         
       Indicate by
check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant
to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232-405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files.)    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer       
      
  Accelerated filer       
      
  Non-accelerated filer       
      
  Smaller reporting company         
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).    Yes         No        
  The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price as of
the last business day of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter, July 4, 2010, was approximately $114 billion. The registrant has no non-voting common stock.   
  The number of shares outstanding of the registrant s common stock as of February 22, 2011 was 7,995,220,402 shares of common stock,
all of one class.       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE    

Portions of the 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders   
      
  Parts I, II and IV   
 
    Portions of the Proxy Statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders   
      
  Parts I and III        

Table of Contents  

      TABLE OF CONTENTS    

Page   

PART I     

1  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS      

1  

General    

1  

Pfizer Website    

1  

Business Segments    

2  

Biopharmaceutical    

2  

Diversified    

5  

Research and Development    

6  

International Operations    

7  

Marketing    

8  

Patents and Intellectual Property Rights    

9  

Competition    

11  

Raw Materials    

13  

Government Regulation and Price Constraints    

13  

Environmental Law Compliance    

19  

Tax Matters    

19  

Employees    

19  

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS     

20  

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS     

26  

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES     

26  

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS     

27  

ITEM 4. RESERVED     

27  

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY     

28  

PART II     

31  

ITEM 
5. MARKET FOR THE COMPANY S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES     

31  

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA     

32  

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS     

32  

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK     

32  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA     

32  

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
DISCLOSURE     

32  

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES     

32  

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION     

32  

PART III     

33  

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE     

33  

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION     

33  

ITEM 
12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS     

33  

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
INDEPENDENCE     

33  

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES     

33  

PART IV     

34  

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES     

34  

15(a)(1) Financial Statements    

34  

15(a)(2) Financial Statement Schedules    

34  

15(a)(3) Exhibits    

34  

Table of Contents  

PART I    

ITEM 1.   
   BUSINESS      
     General       Pfizer Inc. (which may be referred to as  Pfizer, the Company, we, us or our ) is a research-based, global biopharmaceutical company. We apply science and our global resources to improve health and
well-being at every stage of life. We strive to set the standard for quality, safety and value in the discovery, development and manufacture of medicines for people and animals. Our diversified global healthcare portfolio includes human
and animal biologic and small molecule medicines and vaccines, as well as nutritional products and many of the world s best-known consumer healthcare products. Every day, we work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness,
prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases of our time. Consistent with our responsibility as the world s leading biopharmaceutical company, we also collaborate with other biopharmaceutical companies, healthcare
providers, governments and local communities to support and expand access to reliable, affordable healthcare around the world.   
  The Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on June 2, 1942.   
  On October 15, 2009, we completed our acquisition of Wyeth. The acquisition was a cash-and-stock transaction valued, based on the
closing market price of Pfizer s common stock on the acquisition date, at $50.40 per share of Wyeth common stock, or a total of approximately $68 billion.      On October 12, 2010, we and King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (King) announced that we had entered into a definitive merger agreement under the terms of which we will acquire King, a diversified specialty
pharmaceutical discovery and clinical development company, for $3.6 billion in cash or $14.25 per King share. On January 31, 2011, we acquired approximately 92.5% of King s outstanding common stock through the completion of a tender offer.
We intend to complete the acquisition of King through a short-form merger under Tennessee law on or about February 28, 2011, without a vote of the remaining shareholders of King. As a result of the merger, each remaining share of King common
stock   

will be converted into the right to receive $14.25 per share, net in cash, without interest and less any required withholding taxes and King will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pfizer.
        Pfizer Website       Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), are available on our website  (www.pfizer.com) , in text format and in interactive data file format ,  as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material
with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).      Throughout this 2010 Form 10-K, we  incorporate by
reference  certain information from parts of other documents filed or to be filed with the SEC, including our Proxy Statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (2011 Proxy Statement) and the 2010 Financial Report, which will be
contained in Appendix A to our 2011 Proxy Statement. The SEC allows us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders consists of the 2010 Financial
Report and the Corporate and Shareholder Information attached to the 2011 Proxy Statement. Portions of our 2010 Financial Report are filed as Exhibit 13 to this 2010 Form 10-K. Our 2010 Financial Report will be available on our website
 (www.pfizer.com)  on or about February 28, 2011. Our 2011 Proxy Statement will be available on our website on or about March 22, 2011.      Information relating to corporate governance at Pfizer, including our Corporate Governance Principles; Director Qualification Standards; Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer certifications;
Pfizer Policies on Business Conduct (for all of our employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for our Directors; information concerning our
Directors; ways to communicate by e-mail with our Directors; Board Committees; Committee Charters; and transactions in Pfizer securities by Directors and Officers, is available on our website  (www.pfizer.com) . We will provide any

1   

Table of Contents  

of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to Matthew Lepore, Vice President and Corporate Secretary, Chief Counsel-Corporate Governance, Pfizer Inc., 235 East 42nd Street,
New York, NY 10017-5755. Information relating to shareholder services, including our Shareholder Investment Program, book-entry share ownership and direct deposit of dividends, is also available on our website  (www.pfizer.com) .   
     Business Segments       We operate two distinct commercial organizations which constitute our two business segments: Biopharmaceutical and Diversified. Biopharmaceutical includes the Primary Care, Specialty Care, Established
Products, Emerging Markets and Oncology customer-focused units, which, in 2010, included products that prevent and treat cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, central nervous system disorders, arthritis and pain, infectious and respiratory
diseases, urogenital conditions, cancer, eye disease and endocrine disorders, among others. Diversified includes Animal Health products that prevent and treat diseases in livestock and companion animals; Consumer Healthcare products that include
over-the-counter healthcare products such as pain management therapies, cough/cold/allergy remedies, dietary supplements, hemorrhoidal care and other personal care items; Nutrition products such as infant and toddler formula products; and
 Capsugel , which represents our hard capsules business.      Comparative segment information for 2010, 2009 and 2008 is
presented in the tables captioned  Segment Revenues and Profit: Segment Assets, Property, Plant and Equipment Additions, and Depreciation and Amortization; Geographic;  and  Revenues by Product  in Note 20 to our consolidated financial
statements,  Segment, Geographic and Revenue Information,  in our 2010 Financial Report. The information from those tables in our 2010 Financial Report is incorporated by reference in this 2010 Form 10-K.   
  Our businesses are heavily regulated in most of the countries in which we operate. In the U.S., the principal authority regulating our
operations is the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA regulates the safety and efficacy of the products we offer and our research quality, manufacturing processes, product promotion, advertising and

product labeling. Similar regulations exist in most other countries, and in many countries the government also regulates our prices. See  Government Regulation and Price Constraints  below.
        Biopharmaceutical       Revenues from the Biopharmaceutical segment contributed approximately 86% of our total revenues in 2010 and 91% of our total revenues in both 2009 and 2008.   
  We recorded direct product sales of more than $1 billion for each of 15 Biopharmaceutical products in 2010, and for each of nine legacy
Pfizer Biopharmaceutical products in 2009 and 2008. These products represented 60% of our Biopharmaceutical revenues in 2010, 56% of our Biopharmaceutical revenues in 2009 and 60% of our Biopharmaceutical revenues in 2008.   
  Worldwide Biopharmaceutical revenues in 2010 were $58.5 billion, an increase of 29% compared to 2009, primarily due to the inclusion of
operational revenues from legacy Wyeth products of approximately $13.7 billion, which favorably impacted Biopharmaceutical revenues by 30%, the weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies, primarily the Canadian dollar, Australian
dollar, Japanese yen and Brazilian real, which favorably impacted Biopharmaceutical revenues by approximately $900 million, or 2%, partially offset by the decrease in operational revenues of approximately $1.5 billion, or 3%, from legacy Pfizer
products overall, including  Norvasc ,  Camptosar ,  Lipitor  and  Detrol/Detrol LA  in 2010.   
  Geographically, in the U.S., Biopharmaceutical revenues increased 30% in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to the inclusion of revenues
from legacy Wyeth products of $6.6 billion, which had a favorable impact of 33%, partially offset by lower overall revenues from legacy Pfizer products, including  Lipitor ,  Detrol/Detrol LA ,  Celebrex, Lyrica, Chantix  and 
Caduet , and the impact of increased rebates in 2010 as a result of the impact of the U.S. healthcare legislation enacted in March 2010, all of which had an unfavorable impact of $664 million, or 3%.

2   

Table of Contents  

In our international markets, Biopharmaceutical revenues increased 28% in 2010 compared to
2009 reflecting the inclusion of operational revenues from legacy Wyeth products of $7.1 billion, which had a favorable impact of 28%, and the favorable impact of foreign exchange on international Biopharmaceutical revenues of approximately $900
million, or 3%, partially offset by lower operational revenues from legacy Pfizer products of $819 million, or 3%. The decrease in operational revenues of legacy Pfizer products was due to lower operational revenues from, among other products,
 Lipitor ,  Norvasc  and  Camptosar , all of which were impacted by the loss of exclusivity in certain international markets.   
  Biopharmaceutical Selected Product Descriptions:       

Lipitor , for the treatment of elevated LDL-cholesterol levels in the blood, is the most widely-used branded prescription treatment for lowering
cholesterol and the best-selling prescription pharmaceutical product of any kind in the world. See  Patents and Intellectual Property Rights  for further information on  Lipitor .      

Enbrel  is our treatment for rheumatoid arthritis, polyarticular juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, plaque psoriasis and
ankylosing spondylitis, a type of arthritis affecting the spine. The approval of a number of competing products for the treatment of psoriasis is expected to increase competition with respect to  Enbrel  in 2011. Under our agreement with Amgen
Inc. (Amgen), we and Amgen co-promote  Enbrel  in the U.S. and Canada and share in the profits from  Enbrel  sales in those countries. Our co-promotion agreement with Amgen expires in 2013, and we are entitled to a royalty stream for 36
months thereafter, which is significantly less than our current share of  Enbrel  profits from U.S. and Canadian sales. Our exclusive rights to  Enbrel  outside the U.S. and Canada will not be affected by the expiration of the co-promotion
agreement.          

Lyrica  is indicated for the management of post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN), diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN), fibromyalgia, and as adjunctive
therapy for adult patients with partial onset seizures in the U.S., and for neuropathic pain, adjunctive treatment of epilepsy and general anxiety disorder (GAD) in certain countries outside the U.S.

Prevnar/Prevenar 13,  launched in Germany in late 2009 and in the U.S. in early 2010 ,  with launches in other markets in 2010, is our
13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine for preventing invasive pneumococcal disease in infants and young children. To date,  Prevnar/Prevenar 13  has been approved in over 80 countries and launched in over 55 of those countries.

Celebrex  is for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis and acute pain in adults.  Celebrex  is
supported by continued educational and promotional efforts highlighting its efficacy and safety profile for appropriate patients.          

Viagra  remains the leading treatment for erectile dysfunction and one of the world s most recognized pharmaceutical brands after more than
a decade.  Viagra  began facing generic competition in Spain and Finland in December 2009.          

Xalabrands  consists of  Xalatan , a prostaglandin, the world s leading branded agent to reduce elevated eye pressure in patients with
open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension and  Xalacom  ,  a fixed combination prostaglandin ( Xalatan)  and beta blocker (timolol), available outside the U.S. We expect to lose exclusivity for  Xalatan  in the U.S. in March
2011 and for  Xalatan  and  Xalacom  in the majority of major European markets in July 2011. We are, however, pursuing a pediatric extension in Europe. If successful, exclusivity in the majority of major European markets will be extended
by six months to January 2012.          

Effexor XR  (extended release capsules) is our antidepressant for treating adult patients with major depressive disorder, generalized anxiety
disorder, social anxiety disorder and panic disorder.  Effexor XR  faces generic competition outside the U.S. and has faced generic competition in the U.S. since July 1, 2010. This generic competition had in 2010, and will continue to have
a significant adverse impact on our revenues for  Effexor XR .          

Norvasc , for treating hypertension, lost exclusivity in the U.S. in March 2007 and has also experienced patent expirations in other major
markets, including Canada, in July 2009.      

3   

Table of Contents  

Prevnar/Prevenar  ( 7-valent ) is our 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine for preventing invasive pneumococcal disease in infants and
young children. Certain markets have transitioned from the use of  Prevnar/Prevenar (7-valent)  to  Prevnar/Prevenar 13  (see discussion above) resulting in lower revenues for  Prevnar/Prevenar (7-valent).  We expect this trend to
continue.          

Zyvox  is the world s best-selling branded agent for the treatment of certain serious Gram-positive pathogens, including
Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus-Aureus in complicated skin structure infections and nosocomial pneumonia.          

Our  Premarin  family of products remains the leading therapy to help women address moderate to severe menopausal symptoms.

Sutent  is for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma, including metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC), and gastrointestinal stromal
tumors (GIST) after disease progression on, or intolerance to, imatinib mesylate. We continue to drive total revenue and prescription growth, supported by cost-effectiveness data and efficacy data in first-line mRCC including two-year survival
data, which represents the first time overall survival of two years has been seen in the treatment of advanced kidney cancer, as well as through access and healthcare coverage. As of December 31, 2010,  Sutent  was the best-selling
medicine in the world for the treatment of first-line mRCC. On July 1, 2010, the FDA approved revised labeling for  Sutent , which includes a boxed warning concerning hepatotoxicity and related changes to the warnings and precautions
section. Over 91,000 patients worldwide have been treated with  Sutent . The risk-benefit profile of  Sutent  in both mRCC and second-line GIST has been well established through large, randomized clinical trials evaluating its safety and
efficacy. Sutent remains an important treatment option for these two difficult-to-treat cancers.          

Geodon/Zeldox,  an atypical antipsychotic, is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia, as monotherapy for the acute treatment of bipolar
manic or mixed episodes, and as an adjunct to lithium or valproate for the maintenance treatment of bipolar disorder.

Detrol/Detrol LA , a muscarinic receptor antagonist, is the most prescribed branded medicine worldwide for overactive bladder . Detrol LA 
is an extended-release formulation taken once a day.          

Zosyn/Tazocin  our broad-spectrum intravenous antibiotic, faces generic competition in the U.S. and certain other markets.

Genotropin , the world s leading human growth hormone, is used in children for the treatment of short stature with growth hormone
deficiency, Prader-Willi Syndrome, Turner Syndrome, Small for Gestational Age Syndrome, Idiopathic Short Stature (in the U.S. only) and Chronic Renal Insufficiency (outside the U.S. only), as well as in adults with growth hormone deficiency.
Genotropin is supported by a broad platform of innovative injection-delivery devices.          

Vfend , as the only branded agent available in intravenous and oral forms, continued to build on its position as the best-selling systemic,
antifungal agent worldwide in 2010.  Vfend s  overall global sales continued to be driven in 2010 by its acceptance as an excellent broad-spectrum agent for treating yeast and molds. In October 2009, we settled a challenge by Mylan, Inc.
(Mylan) and its subsidiary, Matrix Laboratories Limited (Matrix), to four of our patents relating to  Vfend  by entering into an agreement granting Matrix and another subsidiary of Mylan the right to market voriconazole (generic  Vfend )
tablets in the U.S. Pursuant to that settlement agreement, Matrix and the other Mylan subsidiary launched their generic voriconazole tablet in the U.S. in February 2011. In addition, the basic patent for  Vfend  tablets in Brazil expired in
January 2011.          

Protonix  (pantoprazole sodium) is our proton pump inhibitor for gastroesophageal reflux disease. We have an exclusive license from Nycomed GmbH
to sell  Protonix  in the U.S., where it faces generic competition as the result of at-risk launches by certain manufacturers that began in 2007 and the expiration of the basic U.S. patent (including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period)
in January 2011.      

4   

Table of Contents  

Chantix/Champix,  the first new prescription treatment to aid smoking cessation in nearly a decade, has been launched in all major markets. We
are continuing our educational and promotional efforts, which are focused on the  Chantix  benefit-risk proposition, the significant health consequences of smoking and the importance of the physician-patient dialogue in helping patients quit
smoking.          

BeneFIX, ReFacto AF, Xyntha  are hemophilia products that assist patients with lifelong bleeding disorder.  BeneFIX  is the only available
recombinant factor IX product for the treatment of hemophilia B, while  ReFacto AF/Xyntha  are recombinant factor VIII products for the treatment of hemophilia A. Both products are indicated for the control and prevention of bleeding in
patients with these disorders and in some countries also are indicated for prophylaxis in certain situations, such as surgery.          

Caduet  is a single pill therapy combining  Lipitor  and  Norvasc  for the prevention of cardiovascular events. We expect that
 Caduet  will lose exclusivity in the U.S. in November 2011.          

Revatio  is for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension.      

Pristiq  was approved for the treatment of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) in the U.S. in February 2008 and subsequently was approved for that
indication in 28 other countries.  Pristiq  has also been approved for treatment of moderate-to-severe vasomotor symptoms (VMS) associated with menopause in Thailand, Mexico and the Philippines.      

Aricept , discovered and developed by Eisai Co., Ltd., is the world s leading medicine to treat symptoms of Alzheimer s disease. We
co-promote  Aricept  with Eisai in the U.S. and several other countries and have an exclusive license to sell this medicine in certain other countries. We lost exclusivity for  Aricept  5 mg. and 10 mg. tablets in the U.S. in November
2010. We expect that the  Aricept  23mg. tablet will have exclusivity in the U.S. until July 2013.          

Spiriva  is our inhaled maintenance prescription treatment for breathing problems associated

with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), a lung condition that includes chronic bronchitis, emphysema, or both. We co-promote  Spiriva  in the U.S. with Boehringer Ingelheim
Pharmaceuticals, Inc.            Diversified    
  Worldwide Diversified revenues increased 114% in 2010 compared to 2009 due to the inclusion of operational revenues from legacy Wyeth
products of approximately $4.4 billion in 2010, which favorably impacted Diversified revenues by 106%. The increase was primarily due to the addition of the legacy Wyeth Consumer Healthcare and Nutrition operations. In addition, worldwide
Diversified revenues were favorably impacted by the operational revenue increase in legacy Pfizer Diversified businesses of 3% in 2010, and the favorable impact of foreign exchange of 5%.      Animal Health      Our Animal Health unit is one of the largest in the world. We
discover, develop and sell products for the prevention and treatment of diseases in livestock and companion animals. Revenues from Animal Health products increased by 29% in 2010 compared to 2009, reflecting the inclusion of operational revenues
from legacy Wyeth Animal Health products of 22%, higher operational revenues from legacy Pfizer Animal Health products of 4% due primarily to growth in the companion animal and livestock business and the favorable impact of foreign exchange of 3%.
The following factors impacted 2010 results:       

the first full year of sales associated with the acquisition of Fort Dodge Animal Health from Wyeth; and      

improving economic conditions.         Among the products we market are vaccines, anti-infectives, anti-inflammatories, antiemetics and parasiticides, including the following products:   

Startect  is a new product combining two anthelmintics to deliver a broad spectrum control of parasitic worm infestation in sheep.

Improvac  is a novel gonadotropin releasing factor (GnRF) vaccine for swine that prevents boar taint.

5   

Table of Contents  

Palladia  is a treatment of mast cell tumors, a common form of cancer that affects dogs; it works by killing tumor cells and by cutting off the
blood supply to the tumor.          

Convenia  is an anti-infective for dogs and cats that delivers an assured full course of therapy from a single injection.

Cerenia  is a selective NK-1 receptor antagonist for the treatment and prevention of vomiting in dogs and for the prevention of motion sickness.

Revolution/Stronghold  is a topically administered parasiticide for dogs and cats that controls a number of different parasites such as fleas and
heartworm.          

Rimadyl  relieves pain and inflammation associated with canine osteoarthritis and soft tissue orthopedic surgery.      

Draxxin  is an effective and convenient single dose anti-infective used to treat infections in cattle and swine.      

Excede  is an effective and convenient single-dose anti-infective used to treat infections in dairy cows, beef cattle and swine.

Zulvac  provides a highly effective vaccination program for cattle against the viral disease, bluetongue.      
  Consumer Healthcare      Consumer
Healthcare is the fifth-largest over-the-counter healthcare products company in the world and sells two of the ten largest selling over-the-counter brands ( Centrum and Advil ) in the world. Consumer Healthcare revenues totaled $2.8 billion for
2010. The Consumer Healthcare unit holds strong positions in various geographic markets with its highest revenue volume in the U.S., Canada, the People s Republic of China, Italy, Germany, Brazil and Australia. Major categories and product
lines include:       

Dietary Supplements:  Centrum  brands (including  Centrum, Centrum Silver ,  Centrum Men s  and  Women s ,
 Centrum Performance ,  Centrum Cardio  and  Centrum Kids ),  Caltrate ;          

Pain Management:  Advil  brands (including  Advil, Advil PM ,  Advil Liqui-Gels, Children s Advil, Infant s Advil, Advil
Migraine), ThermaCare;       

Respiratory:  Robitussin, Advil Cold   Sinus ,  Advil Congestion Relief, Dimetapp ;      

Personal Care:  ChapStick, Preparation H.          Nutrition      Pfizer Nutrition is a leader in infant nutritionals in the markets in
which we operate. We have a focused presence in key markets throughout Asia, the Middle East, Europe and Latin America with China, the Philippines, the U.K., Mexico and Australia being among our top markets. As part of Pfizer, Nutrition continues to
have enhanced opportunities to grow in new and existing markets, as well as to leverage the Company s strengths in order to accelerate innovation and develop new products. Nutrition s revenues totaled $1.9 billion in 2010.   
  Nutrition products include our  S26 Preterm Feeding System , specialty formulas such as  S26 PE Gold, S26 HA Gold  and a range
of age-specific products that include  S26 PE Gold, Progress ,  Promil and Promise.        Capsugel   
  Capsugel has a diverse product line that includes not only hard gelatin capsules, but also liquid, softgel, non-animal, and fish gelatin
capsules, all for use in pharmaceutical and dietary supplement dosage delivery. Revenues of $752 million for 2010 represent an increase of $12 million versus 2009, with no meaningful impact from foreign exchange. Revenue in the 2009 period prior to
the acquisition of Wyeth includes $5 million of Capsugel sales to Wyeth. Post-acquisition, these sales are considered intercompany and eliminated from consolidated Pfizer results. We are currently reviewing strategic alternatives for Capsugel, which
may include divestiture.         Research and Development    
  Innovation by our research and development operations is very important to the Company s success. Our goal is to discover, develop
and bring to market innovative products that address major unmet medical needs. We spent $9.4 billion in 2010, $7.8 billion in 2009 and $7.9 billion in 2008 on research and development.

6   

Table of Contents  

We conduct research internally and also through contracts with third parties, through
collaborations with universities and biotechnology companies and in cooperation with other pharmaceutical firms. We also seek out promising compounds and innovative technologies developed by third parties to incorporate into our discovery or
development processes or projects, as well as our product lines, through acquisition, licensing or other arrangements.      Drug
discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. According to the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), out of 5,000-10,000 screened compounds, only 250 enter preclinical testing, five enter human
clinical trials and one is approved by the FDA. The process from early discovery or design to development to regulatory approval can take more than ten years. Drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process. Candidates may not receive
regulatory approval even after many years of research.      As of year-end 2010, we had about 374 projects in research and
development, ranging from discovery through registration, of which 116 programs are in Phase 1 through registration. At year-end 2010, our Phase III portfolio contained 24 programs. While these new candidates may or may not eventually receive
regulatory approval, new drug candidates entering clinical development phases are the foundation for future products.      In
addition to discovering and developing new products, our research operations seek to add value to our existing products by improving their effectiveness and by discovering new uses for them.   
  Information concerning several of our drug candidates in development, as well as supplemental filings for existing products, is set forth
under the heading  Product Developments  in our 2010 Financial Report. That information is incorporated by reference.   
  Our competitors also devote substantial funds and resources to research and development. We also compete against numerous small
biotechnology companies in developing potential drug candidates. The extent to which our competitors are successful in their research could result in erosion of the sales of our products and unanticipated product obsolescence.

On February 1, 2011, we announced a focus on disease areas where we believe we can
deliver the greatest medical and commercial success. Our high-priority therapeutic areas are immunology and inflammation, oncology, cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, neuroscience and pain, and vaccines. Key steps in this process include the
planned reduction in the number of disease areas we will focus on as well as a realigned research and development footprint. As a result, we expect significant reductions in our annual research and development expenses.   
     International Operations       We have significant operations outside the United States. They are managed through the same segments as our U.S. operations Biopharmaceutical and Diversified.   
  Revenues from operations outside the U.S. of $38.8 billion accounted for 57% of our total revenues in 2010. Revenues exceeded $500
million in each of 18 countries outside the U.S. in 2010. The U.S. was the only country to contribute more than 10% of our total revenues, comprising 43% of total revenues in both 2010 and 2009 and 42.3% of total revenues in 2008. Japan is our
second-largest national market, with 7.5% of total revenues in 2010, 8.5% of total revenues in 2009 and 7.7% of total revenues in 2008.      For a geographic breakdown of revenues and changes in revenues, see the table captioned  Geographic  in Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements,  Segment, Geographic and Revenue
Information,  in our 2010 Financial Report and the table captioned  Revenues by Segment and Geographic Area  in our 2010 Financial Report. Those tables are incorporated by reference.   
  Our international businesses are subject, in varying degrees, to a number of risks inherent in carrying on business in other countries.
These include currency fluctuations, capital and exchange control regulations, expropriation and other restrictive government actions. Our international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws and regulations on
pricing, reimbursement and access to our products. See  Government Regulation and Price Constraints  below for a discussion of these matters.

7   

Table of Contents  

Depending on the direction of change relative to the U.S. dollar, foreign currency values
can increase or decrease the reported dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. In 2010, both revenues and net income were favorably impacted by foreign exchange in general, as foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar
increased our revenues and net income in many countries. While we cannot predict with certainty future changes in foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have on us, we attempt to mitigate their impact through operational means and by using
various financial instruments. See the discussion under Note 9-E to our consolidated financial statements,  Financial Instruments: Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities  in our 2010 Financial Report. That discussion is
incorporated by reference. Related information about valuation and risks associated with such financial instruments in part F of that Note is also incorporated by reference.         Marketing       In our global Biopharmaceutical
segment, we promote our products to healthcare providers and patients. Through our marketing organizations, we explain the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products to healthcare providers, such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician
assistants, pharmacists, hospitals, Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs), Managed Care Organizations (MCOs), employers and government agencies. We also market directly to consumers in the U.S. through direct-to-consumer advertising that communicates the
approved uses, benefits and risks of our products while continuing to motivate people to have meaningful conversations with their doctors. In addition, we sponsor general advertising to educate the public on disease awareness, prevention and
wellness, important public health issues, and our patient assistance programs.      In January 2009, we announced the creation of
customer-focused units within our Biopharmaceutical segment to better meet the diverse needs of physicians, patients and our customers while maximizing value for our Company and our shareholders.   
  The Biopharmaceutical segment includes five human health, customer-focused units: Primary Care, Specialty Care, Oncology, Established
Products and Emerging Markets. Upon the closing of the Wyeth

acquisition on October 15, 2009, our Specialty Care customer-focused unit expanded to include vaccines.      In April 2009 in the U.S., we also restructured into regional units in order to create a more flexible organization empowered to identify and address local market dynamics and customer needs. Our
structure aligns the sales, marketing, and medical functions to work closely to meet the needs of key customer segments while ensuring common coordination, focus and accountability across the organizations.   
  Our prescription pharmaceutical products are sold principally to wholesalers, but we also sell directly to retailers, hospitals, clinics,
government agencies and pharmacies. We seek to gain access to healthcare authority, PBM and MCO formularies (lists of recommended, approved, and/or reimbursed medicines and other products). We also work with MCOs, PBMs, employers and other
appropriate healthcare providers to assist them with disease management, patient education and other tools that help their medical treatment routines.      During 2010, Pfizer revenues generated from our three largest biopharmaceutical wholesalers were as follows:       

McKesson, Inc. 14% of our total revenues;          

Cardinal Health, Inc. 10% of our total revenues; and      

AmerisourceBergen Corporation 9% of our total revenues.      
  Sales to these wholesalers were concentrated in the Biopharmaceutical segment. Apart from these instances, neither of our business
segments is dependent on any one customer or group of related customers.      Our global Diversified segment consists of four
global units: Animal Health, Consumer Healthcare, Nutrition and Capsugel. Each unit utilizes its own sales and marketing organization to promote its products, and each occasionally uses distributors in smaller markets.   
  Our Animal Health unit s advertising and promotions are generally targeted to healthcare professionals. Animal Health products are
sold through veterinarians, distributors and retail outlets as well as directly to users.   

8   

Table of Contents  

Our Consumer Healthcare unit s advertising and promotions are generally targeted to
consumers through television, print and other media advertising, as well as through in-store promotion. Consumer Healthcare products are sold through a wide variety of channels, including distributors, pharmacies, retail chains and grocery and
convenience stores.      Our Nutrition unit supports and adheres to the World Health Organization code and national codes on the
marketing of breast milk substitutes. Nutrition encourages breastfeeding as the best nutrition for infants, and provides important products for infants who are not exclusively breastfed. Advertising and promotion of our Nutrition
products for older children and adults generally target consumers and healthcare professionals through print and media advertising and television. Our Nutrition products are sold through a wide variety of channels, including distributors,
pharmacies, hospitals and modern and traditional retailers.         Patents and Intellectual Property Rights
      Our products are sold around the world under brand-name, logo and certain product design trademarks that we consider in
the aggregate to be of material importance. Trademark protection continues in some countries for as long as the mark is used and, in other countries, for as long as it is registered. Registrations generally are for fixed, but renewable, terms.
     We own or license a number of U.S. and foreign patents. These patents cover pharmaceutical and other products and their uses,
pharmaceutical formulations, product manufacturing processes and intermediate chemical compounds used in manufacturing.   
  Patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents
in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in
the country.      In the aggregate, our patent and related rights are of material importance to our businesses in the U.S. and
most other countries. Based on current

product sales, and considering the vigorous competition with products sold by others, the patent rights we consider most significant in relation to our business as a whole, together with the year
in which the U.S. basic product patent expires (including, where applicable, the additional six-month pediatric exclusivity period), are those for the drugs set forth in the table below.   

In some instances, there are later-expiring patents relating to our products directed to particular forms or compositions of the drug or
to methods of manufacturing or using the drug in the treatment of particular diseases or conditions. However, in some cases, such patents may not protect the Company s drug from generic competition after the expiration of the basic patent.
      Aricept  is patented by Eisai Co., Ltd (Eisai). We co-promote  Aricept  with Eisai in the U.S. and several other
countries and have an exclusive license to sell the drug in certain other countries. We lost exclusivity for  Aricept  5 mg. and 10 mg. tablets in the U.S. in November 2010. We expect that the  Aricept  23mg. tablet will have exclusivity
in the U.S. until July 2013.      We have exclusive rights to  Enbrel  outside the U.S. and Canada and we co-promote
 Enbrel  with Amgen in the U.S. and Canada.      In addition to our U.S. basic product patent for  Lipitor,  which
(including the pediatric exclusivity   

9   

Table of Contents  

period) expired in March 2010, we have a patent covering specifically the enantiomeric form of the drug, which (including the pediatric exclusivity period) expires in June 2011. We have granted
Watson Laboratories, Inc. (Watson) the exclusive right to sell the authorized generic version of  Lipitor  in the U.S. for a period of five years, which is expected to commence in November 2011. As Watson s exclusive supplier, we will
manufacture and sell generic atorvastatin tablets to Watson. In markets outside the U.S.,  Lipitor  has lost exclusivity in certain countries and will lose exclusivity at various times in other countries. The  Lipitor  compound patent will
expire in November 2011; however, we are pursuing a pediatric extension in the European Union (EU). If successful, this exclusivity in the majority of major European markets will be extended by six months to May 2012. See Note 19 to our consolidated
financial statements,  Legal Proceedings and Contingencies,  in our 2010 Financial Report regarding pending legal challenges to our  Lipitor  patents in the U.S.       Norvasc, Effexor/Effexor XR ,  Vfend  tablets,  Zosyn/Tazocin  and  Protonix  face generic competition in the U.S.   
  Companies have filed applications with the FDA seeking approval of products that we believe infringe our patents covering, among other
products,  Lipitor, Caduet, Viagra ,  Detrol/Detrol LA, Lyrica ,  Tygacil, Sutent ,  Rapamune ,  Relpax  and  Zyvox . Wyeth and a subsidiary of Wyeth are defendants in a lawsuit alleging that their  ReFacto  and
 Xyntha  products infringe the patents of another company.      We also have other patent rights covering additional products
that have lesser revenues than most of the products set forth in the table above. Of these, we expect to lose exclusivity in the U.S. for  Caduet  and  Aromasin  in 2011.   
  The expiration of a basic product patent or loss of patent protection resulting from a legal challenge normally results in significant
competition from generic products against the originally patented product and can result in a significant reduction in sales of that product in a very short period. In some cases, however, we can continue to obtain commercial benefits from product
manufacturing trade secrets; patents on uses for products; patents on processes and intermediates for the economical

manufacture of the active ingredients; patents for special formulations of the product or delivery mechanisms; and conversion of the active ingredient to over-the-counter products.   
    Our biotechnology products, including  Enbrel  and the  Prevnar  family, may face competition from biosimilars (also
referred to as  follow-on biologics ). Such biosimilars would reference biotechnology products already approved under the U.S. Public Health Service Act. Abbreviated legal pathways for the approval of biosimilars exist in certain
international markets and now, with the passage of legislation in 2010, a framework for such approval exists in the U.S. Se e Government Regulation and Price Constraints  below.     
  In Europe, the European Commission has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product
class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years. If competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing our biotechnology products, our biotechnology products may become subject to
competition from biosimilars, with the attendant competitive pressure. Expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could generally trigger this competition, assuming any relevant exclusivity period has expired.   
  We expect that we may face more litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biotechnology products
with substantial revenue.      One of the main limitations on our operations in some countries outside the U.S. is the lack of
effective intellectual property protection for our products. Under international and U.S. free trade agreements in recent years, global protection of intellectual property rights has been improving. The World Trade Organization Agreement on Trade
Related Aspects of Intellectual Property (WTO-TRIPs) required participant countries to amend their intellectual property laws to provide patent protection for pharmaceutical products by 2005 with an extension until 2016 for least-developed nations.
A number of countries have made improvements. We have experienced significant growth in our businesses in some of those nations, and our continued business expansion in other participant countries depends to a large degree on further patent
protection improvement.   

10   

Table of Contents  

Competition    
  Our businesses are conducted in intensely competitive and often highly regulated markets. Many of our human prescription pharmaceutical
products face competition in the form of branded drugs or generic drugs that treat similar diseases or indications. The principal forms of competition include efficacy, safety, ease of use, and cost effectiveness. Though the means of competition
vary among product categories and business groups, demonstrating the value of our products is a critical factor for success in all of our principal businesses.      Our acquisition of Wyeth in October 2009 created a broader, more diverse portfolio and pipeline with industry-leading positions in potential high-growth areas, further strengthened by new capabilities in
biotechnology and vaccines. The addition of Wyeth not only strengthens our presence in the United States and Europe, but also enhances our abilities to provide emerging markets in China, Latin America, Africa, and the Middle East with high-quality,
innovative medicines.      Our competitors include other worldwide research-based drug companies, smaller research companies with
more limited therapeutic focus, and generic drug and consumer healthcare manufacturers. We compete with other companies that manufacture and sell products that treat similar diseases or indications as our major products.   
  Such competition affects our core product business, which is focused on applying innovative science to discover and market products that
satisfy unmet medical needs and provide therapeutic improvements. Our emphasis on innovation is underscored by our multi-billion-dollar investment in research and development, as well as our emphasis on business development over the past decade, all
resulting in a strong product pipeline. Our investment in research does not stop with drug approval; we continue to invest in further understanding the value of our products for the conditions they treat as well as potential new applications. We
seek to protect the health and well-being of patients by ensuring that medically sound knowledge of the benefits and risks of our medicines is understood and communicated to patients, physicians and global health authorities. We also continue
to enhance the organizational effectiveness of all of our Biopharmaceutical

functions, including coordinating support for our salespersons  efforts to accurately and ethically launch and promote our products to our customers.   
  Operating conditions have become more challenging under the mounting global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost
containment. We continue to take measures to evaluate, adapt and improve our organization and business practices to better meet customer and public needs. For instance, we restructured into regional units in order to create a more flexible
organization empowered to identify and address local market dynamics and customer needs. We have taken an industry-leading role in evolving our approaches to U.S. direct-to-consumer advertising, interactions with, and payments to, healthcare
professionals and medical education grants. We also continue to sponsor programs to address patient affordability and access barriers, as we strive to advance fundamental health system change through support for better healthcare solutions.
     While our Animal Health unit is one of the largest in the world, many other companies offer competing products. Altogether,
there are hundreds of producers of animal health products throughout the world. The principal methods of competition vary somewhat depending on the particular product. They include product innovation, quality, price, service and effective promotion
to veterinary professionals and consumers.      Our Consumer Healthcare unit faces competition from over-the-counter business
units in other major pharmaceutical and consumer packaged goods companies as well as retailers who carry their own private label brands. Our competitive position is affected by several factors, including the amount and effectiveness of our and our
competitors  promotional resources; customer acceptance; product quality; our and our competitors  introduction of new products, ingredients, claims, dosage forms, or other forms of innovation; pricing and regulatory and legislative
matters (e.g., product labeling, patient access, prescription to over-the-counter switches, etc.).      Our Nutrition unit has
many competitors, including several multinational companies, as well as numerous local, privately-owned brands. Our competitive position is affected by several factors, including the amount of resources deployed by

11   

Table of Contents  

competitors to develop, enhance and promote products; the increasing pace of product and packaging innovation in the category; the effectiveness of our promotional efforts; customer acceptance;
product quality; new product launches; development of alternative products by competitors; growth of lower-cost private label brands; regulatory and legislative issues; and scientific and technological advances.   
   Managed Care Organizations       The growth of MCOs in the U.S. has been a major factor in the competitive makeup of the healthcare marketplace. Approximately 250 million people in the U.S. now participate in some version of managed
care. Because of the size of the patient population covered by MCOs, the marketing of prescription drugs to them and the PBMs that serve many of those organizations continues to grow in importance.   
  MCOs can include medical insurance companies, medical plan administrators, health maintenance organizations, alliances of hospitals and
physicians and other physician organizations. The purchasing power of MCOs has increased in recent years due to the growing numbers of patients enrolled in MCOs. At the same time, those organizations have been consolidating into fewer, even larger
entities. This consolidation enhances their purchasing strength and importance to us.      The growth of MCOs has increased
pressure on drug prices. One objective of MCOs is to contain and, where possible, reduce healthcare expenditures. They typically use formularies, volume purchases and long-term contracts to negotiate discounts from pharmaceutical providers. MCOs use
their purchasing power to bargain for lower supplier prices. They also emphasize primary and preventive care, out-patient treatment and procedures performed at doctors  offices and clinics. Hospitalization and surgery, typically the most
expensive forms of treatment, are carefully managed. Since the use of certain drugs can prevent the need for hospitalization, professional therapy or even surgery, such drugs can become favored first-line treatments for certain diseases.   
  As discussed above in  Marketing , MCOs and PBMs typically develop formularies. Formularies can be based on the prices and
therapeutic benefits of the

available products. Due to their generally lower cost, generic medicines are often favored. The breadth of the products covered by formularies can vary considerably from one MCO to another and
many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of particular medical problems. MCOs use a variety of means to encourage patients  use of products listed on their formularies.   
  Exclusion of a product from a formulary or other restrictions, such as requiring prior authorizations, can lead to its sharply reduced
usage in the MCO patient population. Consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete aggressively to have their products included. Where possible, companies compete for inclusion based upon unique features of their products, such as greater efficacy,
better patient ease of use or fewer side effects. A lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. Products that demonstrate fewer therapeutic advantages must compete for inclusion based primarily on price. We have been generally,
although not universally, successful in having our major products included on most MCO formularies.      The impact of MCOs on
drug prices and volumes has increased as the result of their role in negotiating on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries in connection with the Medicare out-patient Prescription Drug Benefit, Medicare Part D, that took effect January 1, 2006. MCOs
and PBMs negotiate on behalf of the federal government as Prescription Drug Plans (PDPs). We have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major products that are used by the senior population included on the formularies of
the Medicare PDPs in 2010.       Generic Products       One of the biggest competitive challenges that we face is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product, especially a small molecule product, we
can lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very short period. Several such competitors make a regular practice of challenging our product patents before their expiry. Generic competitors operate without our large research and
development expenses and our costs of conveying medical information about our products to the medical community. In addition, the FDA approval

12   

Table of Contents  

process exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy data of the
innovator product. Generic products need only demonstrate a level of availability in the bloodstream equivalent to that of the innovator product. This means that generic competitors can market a competing version of our product after the expiration
or loss of our patent and charge much less.      In addition, our patent-protected products can face competition in the form of
generic versions of branded products of competitors that lose their market exclusivity.      As noted above, MCOs that focus
primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics over brand-name drugs. Many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs, including Medicaid in the U.S. Laws in the
U.S. generally allow, and in some cases require, pharmacists to substitute generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be therapeutically equivalent to brand-name drugs. The substitution must be made unless the prescribing
physician expressly forbids it. In the U.S., Pfizer s Greenstone subsidiary sells generic versions of Pfizer s as well as certain of our competitors  pharmaceutical products upon loss of exclusivity, as appropriate.   
     Raw Materials       Raw materials essential to our businesses are purchased worldwide in the ordinary course of business from numerous suppliers. In general, these materials are available from multiple sources. No serious
shortages or delays were encountered in 2010, and none are expected in 2011. However, select agricultural-based materials have from time to time increased in price due to short-term imbalances between supply and demand. We have successfully secured
these materials to meet our requirements in these circumstances but generally at higher prices than those historically paid.

Government Regulation and Price Constraints    
   In the United States    
   General.  Pharmaceutical companies are subject to extensive regulation by national, state and local agencies in the countries in
which they do business. Of particular importance is the FDA in the U.S. It has jurisdiction over our Biopharmaceutical products and administers requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, advertising
and post-marketing surveillance of these products. The FDA also regulates our Consumer Healthcare, Nutrition and Capsugel products as well as our Animal Health products. The U.S. Department of Agriculture and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
also regulate some of our products.      In addition, many of our activities are subject to the jurisdiction of various other
federal regulatory and enforcement departments and agencies, such as the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), the Federal Trade Commission (which also has the authority to regulate the advertising of consumer healthcare products including
over-the-counter drugs and dietary supplements) and the Department of Justice. Individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer
protection and false advertising laws.      We are subject to possible administrative and legal proceedings and actions by these
various regulatory bodies. See Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements,  Legal Proceedings and Contingencies,  in our 2010 Financial Report. Such actions may involve product recalls, seizures and other civil and criminal sanctions.
      Healthcare Reform.  In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and
Education Reconciliation Act (commonly referred to as the Affordable Care Act (ACA)), was enacted in the U.S. The provisions of the ACA are effective on various dates over the next several years. The principal provisions affecting the
biopharmaceutical industry include:       

13   

Table of Contents  

discounts of 50% on branded pharmaceutical sales to Medicare Part D beneficiaries in the Medicare coverage gap, known as the  doughnut hole 
(effective January 1, 2011); and          

a non-deductible annual fee payable to the federal government based on a company s prior calendar year share of branded prescription drug sales to
specified government programs (effective January 1, 2011 through 2018).         The ACA is estimated to result
in the coverage of 32 million uninsured individuals. Approximately half of this will occur through an expansion of the Medicaid program. Effective in 2014, individuals with incomes below 133% of the federal poverty level (FPL) will be eligible
for Medicaid. The remainder will be covered with private sector coverage either through their employer or the new state-based Health Insurance Exchanges. With limited exceptions, individuals who fail to purchase health insurance will pay a penalty.
Individuals with incomes between 100% 400% of FPL will be eligible for subsidies to help pay for coverage.      Expanding
insurance coverage and other costs are expected to represent a relatively modest gain to overall pharmaceutical sales as the newly insured are principally young and relatively healthy. At the same time, the rebates, discounts, taxes and other costs
associated with the ACA are a significant cost to the industry.      The ACA created the Independent Payment Advisory Board
(IPAB), a 15-member panel appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate. The IPAB is charged with developing proposals to  reduce the per capita rate of growth in Medicare spending  in the event that the actual
Medicare per capita growth rate exceeds a specified target. Unless Congress acts to alter the proposals, they will be automatically implemented. The IPAB cannot directly ration care, raise premiums, increase cost sharing, or otherwise restrict
benefits or modify eligibility. If it fails to act, the Secretary of HHS is directed to prepare a proposal. The IPAB is prohibited by statute from making payment reductions to certain sectors such as hospitals and home health agencies, which
increases the risk that the IPAB will propose to limit access to pharmaceutical treatments or mandate price controls for our products.

The ACA also establishes a Patient Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI), a private,
non-profit corporation empowered to fund and disseminate comparative effectiveness research (CER) and build infrastructure for improved outcomes analysis. PCORI will have no ability to impose formulary changes directly in government-funded health
programs. We expect that due to the PCORI as well as the underlying market demand for data-driven differentiation, CER studies will have growing influence on access. Overseeing and managing the PCORI is an advisory board drawn from multiple and
varied stakeholder organizations, including the pharmaceutical industry. Pfizer s Chief Medical Officer currently serves as the industry representative on the advisory board.   
  The ACA defines a set of essential benefits that must be covered for health benefits to qualify to meet the requirements of the ACA
mandates. Prescription drugs are defined as an essential benefit in the legislation. Regulation may offer additional specificity on what exactly should be covered (for example, that branded drugs and generics should be covered). Essential benefits
are defined to be comparable to current employer plans.       Changes in the Enforcement Environment . The ACA expands the
government s investigative and enforcement authority and increases the penalties for fraud and abuse, including amendments to both the False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute to make it easier to bring suit under these statutes. The ACA
also allocates additional resources and tools for the government to police healthcare fraud, with expanded subpoena power for HHS, additional funding to investigate fraud and abuse, and expanded use of Recovery Audit Contractors for
enforcement.     Starting in 2012, pharmaceutical manufacturers will be required to record any transfers of value made to doctors
and teaching hospitals and to disclose such data to HHS, with the initial disclosure to HHS due in 2013. In addition to civil penalties for failure to report transfers of value to physicians or teaching hospitals, there will be criminal penalties if
a manufacturer intentionally makes false statements in such reports. Further, the increased access to such data by fraud and abuse investigators could potentially raise the risk of liability for improper payments under the False Claims Act.

14   

Table of Contents  

Medicare.  Medicare Part D went into effect on January 1, 2006. Elderly and
disabled beneficiaries have access to the Medicare drug benefit through private plans approved by the federal government. Beneficiaries with low incomes and modest assets are eligible for assistance with Part D plan premiums and cost sharing.
Nationally, the share of such beneficiaries with comprehensive drug coverage increased from 59% in 2005 to over 90% in 2010. Also in 2010, 17.7 million people were enrolled in stand-alone Prescription Drug Plans, while 9.6 million were
enrolled in Medicare Advantage Plans or in other types of health plans with prescription drug coverage. Medicare beneficiaries report high levels of satisfaction with an overwhelming majority saying the program works well. In addition, the program
costs less than originally expected. According to the 2010 Medicare Trustees Report, total Part D costs have declined 41%, or $261 billion, compared to the initial 10-year cost estimate for 2004-2013.   
  The ACA made some important changes to the drug benefit in particular, phasing out the coverage gap by 2020. Prior to reform,
beneficiaries who reached a certain level of spending on prescription medications (the Part D coverage gap or  doughnut hole ) had to pay 100% of the cost of their drugs until personal out-of-pocket spending reached a level qualifying them
for catastrophic coverage. The Medicare Part D Coverage Gap Discount Program uses public and private funding to relieve the financial burden facing beneficiaries who fall into the coverage gap. For 2011, branded pharmaceutical companies will pay 50%
of the cost of the branded drugs in the gap and the government will pay 7% of the cost for generic drugs in the gap. As a result, rather than paying 100% of the total cost of their drugs when they reach the coverage gap, enrollees will pay 50% of
the total cost of branded drugs and 93% of the total cost of generic drugs. By 2020 enrollees will pay only 25% of the cost of their branded and generic drugs in the gap as the share covered by the government will increase.   
   Biosimilars.  The ACA also created a framework for the approval of follow-on biologics, or biosimilars, following the expiration of
12 years of exclusivity for the innovator biologic with a potential six month pediatric extension. The FDA is responsible for implementation of the legislation, which will require the FDA to address such key

topics as the type and extent of data needed to establish biosimilarity; the data required to achieve interchangeability compared to biosimilarity; the naming of biosimilars; the implications of
having or not having unique names; the tracking and tracing of adverse events; and the acceptability of data from an ex-U.S. licensed reference product comparator to demonstrate biosimilarity and/or interchangeability.   
   Medicaid and Related Matters.  Federal law requires branded pharmaceutical companies to provide rebates to state Medicaid agencies.
The ACA has brought about major changes in the Medicaid program. Collectively, the measures (i) increased federal rebates paid by manufacturers on branded drugs within the traditional Medicaid program from 15.1% to 23.1%, and for generic drugs
from 11% to 13% of Average Manufacturer Price ( AMP ) in 2010; (ii) expanded Medicaid drug rebates to cover drugs provided through managed Medicaid plans beginning in 2010; and (iii) expanded Medicaid drug rebates to cover new
formulations of brand-name drugs, beginning in 2010. The law also creates a federal upper limit under the Medicaid program for generic drugs at 175% of AMP. In addition, the law expands the types of entities eligible for the  Section 340B
discounts  for outpatient drugs provided in 2010.      The majority of states use preferred drug lists to restrict access to
certain medicines to Medicaid beneficiaries. Restrictions exist for some Pfizer products in certain states. Access in the Medicaid managed care program is typically determined by the health plans providing coverage for Medicaid recipients
contracting for the provision of services in the state. Given states  current and likely ongoing fiscal crises, a growing number of states are considering a variety of cost-control strategies, including capitated managed care plans which
typically contain cost by restricting access to certain treatments.      The ACA expands Medicaid coverage in 2014. It is expected
that 16 million additional people will be enrolled in Medicaid by 2019.      We also must give discounts or rebates on
purchases or reimbursements of pharmaceutical products by certain other federal and state agencies and programs. See the discussion regarding rebates in the  Revenues  section of our 2010 Financial Report and in Note 1-H to our consolidated
financial   

15   

Table of Contents  

statements,  Significant Accounting Policies, Revenues,  in our 2010 Financial Report, which discussions are incorporated by reference.   
   Marketing Restrictions . Federal healthcare professional payment disclosure provisions enacted under the ACA require
biopharmaceutical and medical device companies to report payments made to physicians and teaching hospitals to the Secretary of HHS beginning in 2013 for 2012 transactions. HHS is required to post these payments publicly on a website. This national
payment transparency effort and industry commitment to uphold voluntary codes of conduct (the updated PhRMA  Code on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals , PhRMA  Guiding Principles Direct to Consumer Advertisements About Prescription
Medicines,  etc.) will complement existing laws and regulations to help ensure ethical collaboration and truthful product communications. These efforts are in place to help ensure responsible marketing approaches and to address concerns.
      Importation of Drugs.  There continue to be legislative proposals to amend U.S. law to allow the importation into the
U.S. of prescription drugs from outside the U.S., which can be sold at prices that are regulated by the governments of various foreign countries. In addition to well-documented safety concerns, such importation could impact pharmaceutical prices in
the U.S. While the 2003 Medicare Modernization Act maintains a prohibition on such imports, it would allow importation from Canada if the Secretary of HHS certifies that such importation is safe and would result in savings to consumers. Before the
2003 Medicare Modernization Act, federal law would have permitted importation of medicines into the U.S. from a considerably larger group of developed countries, provided the Secretary of HHS made the same safety and cost-savings certifications. As
part of the debate on the ACA, two Senate proposals that would have restored the broader number of countries from which importation would be permissible were introduced but were ultimately defeated.   
  The Secretaries of HHS in the Clinton, George W. Bush, and Obama Administrations have all declined to certify that importation of
medicines is safe and saves money. If the Secretary of HHS changes its position, an increase in cross-border trade in medicines subject to foreign price controls in other countries could occur.

In December 2004, HHS and the Department of Commerce issued reports on drug importation and
foreign price controls. The HHS report noted that it would be  extraordinarily difficult to ensure that drugs personally imported by individual consumers  could meet the standards of safety that would support certifying such importation as
safe. While the report also concluded that the U.S. could establish a feasible basis for commercial drug importation, such a change in the law would require  new legal authorities, substantial additional resources and significant restrictions
on the types of drugs that could be imported.  The report also noted that the total savings to be expected from such a commercial importation regime would be relatively small 1% or 2% of total drug spending in the U.S.   
   Outside the United States    
  We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. In Europe, Canada and some other international markets,
the government provides healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. This international patchwork of price regulation
has led to different prices and some third-party trade in our products between countries.       Europe.  The approval of new
drugs across the EU may be achieved using the Mutual Recognition Procedure/Decentralized Procedure or EU Commission/European Medicines Agency (EMA) Centralized Procedure. These procedures apply in the EU member states, plus the European Economic
Area countries, Norway and Iceland. The use of these procedures generally provides a more rapid and consistent approval process across the member states than was the case when the approval processes were operating independently within each country.
     Since the EU does not have jurisdiction over patient reimbursement or pricing matters in its member states, we continue to
work with individual countries on such matters across the region.      The world economy in 2010 was recovering from the recent
financial crisis and recession. One of the consequences of the recession for almost all world economies has been an increased proportion of gross domestic product (GDP) arising from

16   

Table of Contents  

government spending and reduced tax receipts. For many developed economies, particularly in Europe, this exacerbated existing fiscal imbalances and increased net government debts. Under these
macroeconomic conditions, Pfizer faced widespread incremental pressures on international pricing and reimbursement, particularly in developed European markets with a high government share of pharmaceutical spending. Specific pricing pressures
included increased mandatory rebates in Germany and significant price cuts in Greece, Portugal, and Spain.      Formal processes
of international reference pricing between EU countries add to the regional impact of price cuts in individual countries. Price variations have also arisen from exchange rate fluctuations between the Euro and other European currencies, and these are
also factored into international reference pricing systems.      During 2004, a comprehensive package of reforms was adopted
amending EU law on the regulation of medicinal products (pharmaceutical legislation) in many areas, including approval procedures and safety reporting. Many of these changes were aimed at facilitating the approval and launch of generic medicines and
at streamlining regulatory procedures ahead of the accession of new member states to the EU. These reforms included the introduction of a clear legal basis for the approval of biosimilar products in the EU. Following the effectiveness of these new
regulations (in November 2005), the first such products, including a biosimilar version of  Genotropin , were approved in the EU in 2006. The new regulations also shortened certain approval timelines and introduced fast-track and conditional
centralized authorizations. Pfizer s  Sutent  was the first product to be conditionally approved under the new law in 2006 (although its status subsequently was converted to full authorization). In addition, the data exclusivity periods
during which innovative companies  regulatory data are protected were required to be harmonized in all member states and for all routes of regulatory approval.      On January 26, 2007, the new EU Regulation on Medicines for Pediatric Use became effective. This introduced new obligations on pharmaceutical companies to conduct research on their medicines for
children and, subject to various conditions, offered the possibility of incentives for so doing, including exclusivity extensions. The aim of this regulation is

to improve the health of children in the EU through high quality research, stimulating the development of new medicines, creating infrastructure to enable authorized use and improving the
information on medicines for children. A Pediatric Committee (PDCO) was created within the EMA to provide scientific opinions and input on development plans for medicines for use with children. In line with this regulation, Pfizer is conducting many
pediatric research programs for its in-line and development products, and completed its first EMA-approved pediatric investigation plan (for  Lipitor ) in 2009.      On December 31, 2010, the EU published new pharmacovigilance legislation which had been adopted by the Council and Parliament of the EU. The legislation will come into effect in mid-2012 and entails
many new and revised requirements for conducting pharmacovigilance, as well as the codification of various existing requirements previously set out in guidance. Key changes include the possibility for regulators to require pharmaceutical companies
to conduct post-authorization efficacy studies both at the time of approval and at any time afterwards in light of scientific developments. There are also additional requirements to include statements in product labelling with regard to adverse drug
reaction reporting and additional monitoring of products. There will also be significantly greater transparency of the safety review process.      The new legislation forms part of a three-part  pharmaceutical package  to amend the existing EU pharmaceutical legislation. The other parts concern legislative changes in the fields of
(i) counterfeit medicines, which is expected to be adopted in the first quarter of 2011, and (ii) the provision of information on prescription medicines to patients, which has reached a reasonably advanced stage, but has proved
controversial to date and the outcome for which is more uncertain.      At the end of the third quarter of 2010, the Commissioner
for Industry and Entrepreneurship of the European Commission announced the launch of a process on corporate responsibility in the pharmaceutical industry. The process includes three independent platforms: (i) transparency and ethics in the
sector; (ii) access to medicines in Africa; and (iii) access to medicines in Europe in the context of pricing and reimbursement. The platform on access

17   

Table of Contents  

to medicines in Europe will focus on enhancing collaboration among EU member states and relevant stakeholders, in order to find common non-regulatory approaches to ensure  timely and
equitable access to medicines .       Canada.  Health Canada is the government agency that provides regulatory and
marketing approval for drugs and therapeutic products in Canada. In October 2006, Health Canada introduced its modernization initiative under the  Blueprint for Renewal: Modernizing Canada s Regulatory System for Health Products and Food
 policy framework. The  Blueprint  includes 10 objectives including the Progressive Licensing Framework (PLF) also referred to as the Legislative and Regulatory Modernization (LRM); stronger post-market safety and surveillance systems; and
strengthening compliance and enforcement with a directive towards an integrated health system, including closer alignment of healthcare objectives with provinces and territories. In December 2007, the  New Food and Consumer Safety Action Plan
 w  as issued, followed in April 2008 by the introduction of Bill C-51, a proposed enabling legislation to amend the  Food and Drugs Act.  If passed, it would represent a significant drug regulatory system reform and a major change to
Canada s drug approval system. The Bill was not re-introduced in 2010 as expected, however, the government continues to express commitment to its re-introduction. Current regulatory policies and initiatives, such as priority and conditional
approvals, are already providing for internationally competitive approval timelines. As in the EU,  Sutent  was initially approved under the conditional provision. However, unprecedented advances in science and technology are presenting a
potential challenge for Health Canada s ability to maintain internationally competitive market authorizations. In October 2010, Health Canada accelerated their modernization efforts. This included the proposed regulatory pathways for Orphan
Drugs (harmonized with U.S./EU regulations) and for biosimilars referred to as  Subsequent Entry Biologics  (SEBs). This would formalize into regulations Health Canada s Guidance Document, which provided for approval of SEBs in 2009.
     Introductory  non-excessive  prices and price increases are controlled by the federal Patented Medicines Prices
Review Board. Canada s intellectual property regime for drugs, which was implemented under the Data Protection regulations

and provides for a minimum of eight years of data protection for new chemical entities, has been challenged by recent litigation that has favored generic manufacturers. The federal government
also has jurisdiction over international trade and therefore over the issue of cross-border trade in pharmaceuticals and internet pharmacies.       Asia.  The regulatory environment in Asia presents multiple issues for companies trying to achieve simultaneous global development and registration (i.e., marketing products at the same time as in
the U.S., Europe, Canada and elsewhere). While each country in Asia has its unique regulatory concerns, there are a number of regulatory issues that are common among the majority of Asian countries. For example, with the exception of Japan, health
authorities in Asia generally require marketing approval by a recognized regulatory authority (e.g., the U.S. FDA) before they begin to conduct their application review process and/or issue their final approval. Proof of reference country approval
is usually satisfied by companies submitting a Certificate of Pharmaceutical Product (CPP), which is a legal document that is issued by the competent health authority certifying that the company s product has satisfied its country s
registration requirements and manufacturing standards. At a minimum, this requirement delays marketing authorization in Asia by 12-15 months following market authorization in the U.S. and Europe.   
  Another common regulatory issue in Japan and other Asian countries, is the requirement for local clinical data in the country s
population in order to receive final marketing approval. Each of Japan, China, Korea, Taiwan and India has regulations in some form that require clinical studies in their country (e.g., China requires a prescribed number of Chinese patients
regardless of the product, therapeutic area or disease population). Although some agencies have shown flexibility based on scientific rationale related to ethnicity assessments, it is not uncommon for companies to be required to duplicate costly
clinical trials in Asia pursuant to these regulations. This can further add to marketing approval delays compared to the U.S. and Europe.      The controlling regulatory agency in China is the State Food and Drug Administration (SFDA). SFDA s scope of responsibilities is similar to that of the FDA or EMA.

18   

Table of Contents  

Two key agencies within SFDA are the Center for Drug Evaluation (CDE) and the National
Institute for the Control of Pharmaceutical and Biological Products (NICPBP). The CDE, which is analogous to the FDA s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER), is primarily responsible for the technical review of product applications,
including clinical trial applications (CTA) and new drug applications (NDA), and drafting technical guidance documents. NICPBP is the quality testing arm of SFDA, legally responsible for the testing of pharmaceuticals, biologics and medical devices
nationwide.      China s regulatory system is unique in many ways, and its drug development and registration requirements are
not always consistent with international standards. As a result, it is not uncommon to see treatments entering the market in China two to four years after first marketing in the U.S. and Europe.   
   Intellectual Property : Although effective enforcement and adequate legal remedies remain areas of concern for foreign companies,
the intellectual property environment has improved in China. The government has taken steps to protect intellectual property rights in conformity with WTO provisions, and several companies have established research and development centers in China
due to more confidence in China s intellectual property environment. However, China remains on the U.S. Department of Commerce Priority Watch List for 2011. A framework exists for protecting patents for 20 years but enforcement mechanisms are
often lacking or inconsistent (such as, no effective patent linkage mechanism (noted below), no preliminary injunctions, impractical evidentiary burdens, and heightened sufficiency standards used to invalidate patents at the enforcement stage).
     Additionally, true data exclusivity still remains elusive in China. The CDE provides protection against reliance on data by
generic applicants for a fixed period of time. Following its WTO accession in 2001, China revised its laws to incorporate concepts from the WTO/TRIPS, and China s relevant laws establish a six-year period of protection against unfair commercial
use of undisclosed test and other data of products containing a new chemical ingredient. However, the current regulations are ambiguous as to how data protection is implemented in practice in China. For example, certain key concepts such as
 new chemical ingredient  and  unfair commercial use  are undefined.

Environmental Law Compliance    
  Most of our operations are affected by national, state and/or local environmental laws. We have made, and intend to continue to make,
necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable laws. We also are cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites. See Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements,  Legal Proceedings and
Contingencies,  in our 2010 Financial Report. As a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2010 for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activity as follows:   

environment-related capital expenditures $48.7 million;      

other environment-related expenses $184.8 million.         While we cannot predict with certainty future capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance, including compliance with pending legislation and potential regulation and potential
legislation related to climate change, we have no reason to believe they will have a material effect on our capital expenditures or competitive position.      We have reviewed the potential for physical risks to our facilities and supply chain that may be exacerbated by climate change and have concluded that, because of our facility locations and our existing
distribution networks, we do not believe these risks are material in the near term.         Tax Matters    
  The discussion of tax-related matters in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements,  Taxes on Income,  in our 2010 Financial
Report, is incorporated by reference.         Employees    
  In our innovation-intensive business, our employees are vital to our success. We believe we have good relationships with our employees. As
of December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 110,600 people in our operations throughout the world.   

19   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 1A.   
   RISK FACTORS         The
statements in this Section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.   
   Our disclosure and analysis in this 2010 Form 10-K and in our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders contain some forward-looking
statements that set forth anticipated results based on management s plans and assumptions. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public, as well as oral forward-looking statements.
Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. We have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as  anticipate, 
 estimate,   expect,   project,   intend,   plan,   believe,   will,   target,   forecast  and similar expressions or by using future dates in connection with
any discussion of future operating or financial performance, business plans or prospects, in-line products and product candidates, and share-repurchase and dividend-rate plans. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions,
business plans and prospects, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal
proceedings, and financial results.        We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although
we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should
underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements and you are cautioned not to put
undue reliance on forward-looking statements.        We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures

we make on related subjects in our 10-Q and 8-K reports to the SEC. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions
relevant to our businesses. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.
       Healthcare Reform       As mentioned earlier, the ACA was enacted by Congress in March 2010 and its provisions are effective on various dates over the next several years. We expect that the rebates, discounts, taxes and other
costs over time will have a significant effect on our expenses and profitability in the future. See the discussion under  U.S. Healthcare Legislation  in our 2010 Financial Report. Furthermore, the IPAB created by the ACA, to reduce the per
capita rate of growth in Medicare spending, could potentially limit access to certain treatments or mandate price controls for our products. Moreover, expanded government investigative authority may increase the costs of compliance with new
negotiations and programs. We also face the uncertainties that might result from any modification, repeal or invalidation of any of the provisions of the ACA.       Government Regulation and Managed Care Trends       U.S. and foreign
governmental regulations mandating price controls and limitations on patient access to our products impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations. In the U.S., many of our biopharmaceutical
products are subject to increasing pricing pressures. Such pressures have increased as the result of the 2003 Medicare Modernization Act due to the enhanced purchasing power of the private sector plans that negotiate on behalf of Medicare
beneficiaries. In addition, if the 2003 Medicare Modernization Act or the ACA were amended to impose direct governmental price controls and access restrictions, it would have a significant adverse

20   

Table of Contents  

impact on our business. Furthermore, MCOs, as well as Medicaid and other government agencies, continue to seek price discounts. Some states have implemented, and other states are considering,
price controls or patient-access constraints under the Medicaid program and some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not Medicaid eligible. Other matters also could be the
subject of U.S. federal or state legislative or regulatory action that could adversely affect our business, including changes in patent laws, the importation of prescription drugs from outside the U.S. at prices that are regulated by the governments
of various foreign countries, restrictions on U.S. direct-to-consumer advertising or limitations on interactions with healthcare professionals and the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses
primarily on cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines.      The prohibition on the use of federal funds for reimbursement of erectile dysfunction medications by the Medicaid program, which became effective January 1, 2006, and the similar federal funding
prohibition for the Medicare Part D program, which became effective January 1, 2007, has had an adverse effect on our business. Any prohibitions on the use of federal funds for reimbursement of other classes of drugs in the future may also have
an adverse effect.      We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. In Europe and some other
international markets, the government provides healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. In particular, there were
government-mandated price reductions for certain biopharmaceutical products in certain European countries in 2010, and we anticipate continuing pricing pressures in Europe in 2011. This international patchwork of price regulation has led to
different prices and some third-party trade in our products between countries. As a result, it is expected that pressures on the pricing component of operating results will continue. The adoption of restrictive price controls in new jurisdictions or
more restrictive ones in existing jurisdictions could also adversely impact revenue.

Generic Competition       Competition from manufacturers of generic drugs is a major challenge for us around the world. Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for one of our products, or upon the  at-risk 
launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of our patented products, we can lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very short period, which
can adversely affect our business.      Also, the patents covering several of our most important medicines, including  Lipitor,
Caduet, Viagra, Detrol/Detrol LA, Lyrica, Sutent, Tygacil ,  Rapamune ,  Relpax , and  Zyvox,  are being challenged by generic manufacturers. In addition, our patent-protected products may face competition in the form of generic
versions of branded products of competitors that lose their market exclusivity.       Competitive Products    
  We cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products or their possible effect on our sales.
Products that compete with ours, including some of our best-selling medicines, are launched from time to time. Competitive product launches have occurred in recent years and certain potentially competitive products are in various stages of
development, some of which have been filed for approval with the FDA and with regulatory authorities in other countries.       Dependence on Key
In-Line Products       We recorded direct product revenues of more than $1 billion for each of 15 biopharmaceutical products in
2010:  Lipitor, Enbrel, Lyrica ,  Prevnar/Prevenar 13, Celebrex ,  Viagra ,  Xalatan/Xalacom ,  Effexor/Effexor XR ,  Norvasc ,  Prevnar/Prevenar (7-valent), Zyvox, Sutent, Premarin  family , Geodon/Zeldox
 and  Detrol/Detrol LA . Those products accounted for 60% of our total Biopharmaceutical revenues in 2010.  Lipitor  sales in 2010 were approximately $10.7 billion, accounting for approximately 18% of our total 2010 Biopharmaceutical
revenues. If the products referenced above or any of our other major products were to become subject to problems such as loss of patent protection, changes in prescription growth rates, material product liability litigation, unexpected

21   

Table of Contents  

side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence, pressure from existing competitive products, changes in labeling or, if a new, more effective treatment
should be introduced, the adverse impact on our revenues could be significant. As noted, patents covering several of our best-selling medicines have recently expired or will expire in the next few years, and patents covering a number of our
best-selling medicines are the subject of pending legal challenges. We expect we will lose exclusivity for  Lipitor  in the U.S. in November 2011 and, as a result, will lose the substantial portion of our U.S. revenues from  Lipitor
 shortly thereafter. In addition, our revenues could be significantly impacted by the timing and rate of commercial acceptance of key new products.       Specialty Pharmaceuticals       Specialty pharmaceuticals are medicines that
treat rare or life-threatening conditions that have smaller patient populations, such as certain types of cancer and multiple sclerosis. The growing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher
cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, is beginning to generate significant payer interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector. While the impact on Pfizer of payers  efforts to control access
and pricing of specialty pharmaceuticals has been limited to date, our growing portfolio of specialty products, combined with the increasing use of health technology assessment in markets around the world and the deteriorating finances of
governments, may lead to a more significant adverse business impact in the future.       Research and Development Investment    
  The discovery and development of new products as well as the development of additional uses for existing products are very important to
the success of the Company. However, balancing current growth and investment for the future remains a major challenge. Our ongoing investments in new product introductions and in research and development for new products and existing product
extensions could exceed corresponding sales growth. This could produce higher costs without a proportional increase in revenues.

Additionally, Pfizer s research and development investment plans and resources may not
be correctly matched between the science and the market. The Company may not be investing in the right technology platforms, leading therapeutic segments, product classes, geographic markets and/or in-licensing and out-licensing opportunities in
order to deliver a robust pipeline. Additionally, even if the areas with the greatest market attractiveness are identified, the science may not work for any given program.      We recently announced a focus on fewer disease areas where we believe we can deliver the greatest medical and commercial success. There can be no assurance that this strategy will deliver the desired
result which could affect profitability in the future.       Development, Regulatory Approval and Marketing of Products    
  Risks and uncertainties apply particularly with respect to product-related, forward-looking statements. The outcome of the lengthy and
complex process of identifying new compounds and developing new products is inherently uncertain. Drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. The process from early discovery or design to development to regulatory
approval can take many years. Drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process. There can be no assurance as to whether or when we will receive regulatory approval for new products or for new indications or dosage forms for existing products.
Decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling and other matters could adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products. There is also a risk that we may not adequately address existing regulatory agency findings
concerning the adequacy of our regulatory compliance processes or implement sustainable processes and procedures to maintain regulatory compliance and to address future regulatory agency findings should they occur. There also are many considerations
that can affect marketing of our products around the world. Regulatory delays, the inability to successfully complete clinical trials, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy, new discoveries, patent disputes and claims about adverse side
effects are a few of the factors that could adversely affect the realization of research and development and product-related, forward-looking statements.

22   

Table of Contents  

Post-Approval Data       As a condition to granting marketing approval of a product, the FDA may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials. The results generated in these Phase IV trials could result in loss of
marketing approval, changes in product labeling, and/or new or increased concerns about side effects or efficacy of a product. The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 (the FDAAA) gives the FDA enhanced post-market authority,
including the explicit authority to require post-market studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information and compliance with FDA-approved risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. The FDA s exercise of its
authority under the FDAAA could result in delays or increased costs during product development, clinical trials and regulatory review, increased costs to comply with additional post-approval regulatory requirements and potential restrictions on
sales of approved products. Foreign regulatory agencies often have similar authority and may impose comparable costs. Post-marketing studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and other
emerging data about marketed products, such as adverse event reports, may also adversely affect sales of our products. Further, the discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of our products that implicate (or are perceived to
implicate) an entire class of products could have an adverse effect on sales of the affected products. Accordingly, new data about our products, or products similar to our products, could negatively impact demand for our products due to real or
perceived side effects or uncertainty regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in product withdrawal. Furthermore, new data and information, including information about product misuse, may lead government agencies, professional societies,
practice management groups or organizations involved with various diseases to publish guidelines or recommendations related to the use of our products or the use of related therapies or place restrictions on sales. Such guidelines or recommendations
may lead to lower sales of our products.       Biotechnology Products    
  The ACA has created a framework for the approval of biosimilars in the U.S. following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the
innovator   

biologic with a potential six month pediatric extension. Such biosimilars could reference biotechnology products already approved under the U.S. Public Health Service Act. Additionally, the FDA
has approved a biosimilar recombinant human growth hormone,  Genotropin , that referenced a biotechnology product approved under the U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. In Europe, the European Commission has granted marketing
authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years. If competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing our
biotechnology products, our biotechnology products may become subject to competition from biosimilars, with the attendant competitive pressure. Expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could generally trigger this competition,
assuming any relevant exclusivity period has expired. We expect that we could face more litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biotechnology products with substantial revenue.   
   Research Studies    
  Decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a drug candidate can have a substantial impact on the marketing
strategy once the drug receives approval. More detailed studies may demonstrate additional benefits that can help in the marketing, but they consume time and resources and can delay submitting the drug candidate for initial approval. We try to plan
clinical trials prudently, but there is no guarantee that a proper balance of speed and testing will be made in each case. The quality of our decisions in this area could affect our future results.   
   Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Risk       57% of our total 2010 revenues were derived from international operations, including 28% from the Europe region and 18% from the Japan/Asia region. These international-based revenues, as well as our
substantial international net assets, expose our revenues and earnings to foreign currency exchange rate changes. In addition, our interest-bearing investments, loans and borrowings are subject to risk from changes in interest rates and foreign
exchange rates. These risks and the measures we have taken to help contain them are discussed in the section entitled  Financial Risk Management  in our 2010 Financial

23   

Table of Contents  

Report. For additional details, see Note 9-E to our consolidated financial statements,  Financial Instruments: Derivative Financial Instruments and   Hedging Activities,  in our 2010
Financial Report. Those sections of our 2010 Financial Report are incorporated by reference.      Notwithstanding our efforts to
foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in fiscal circumstances, we cannot predict with certainty changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other related factors affecting our businesses.   
   Risks Affecting International Operations       Our international operations also could be affected by capital and exchange controls, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and
remedies, trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, and marketing of, reimbursement for and access to, our products, as well as by political unrest, unstable governments and legal systems and
inter-governmental disputes. Any of these changes could adversely affect our business.       Diversified Segment    
  Our Animal Health unit may be impacted by challenging global economic conditions resulting in high unemployment rates and tight credit
conditions. A high unemployment rate typically results in reduced traffic in veterinary clinics, negatively impacting our companion animal business. Tight credit conditions limit the borrowing power of livestock producers, causing some to switch to
lower-priced alternatives.      Pfizer Nutrition may be impacted by challenging global economic conditions and the resulting
effect on consumer spending. Increased competition particularly in high growth emerging markets is also a risk for this business. The Nutrition business may also experience significant financial impact associated with changes in national, regional,
and international laws, rules and guidelines and their enforcement. Our infant and young child nutrition products are subject to an array of rules and regulations enforced by government entities as well as treaties, conventions and guidelines from
international authorities. Changes to these requirements can significantly impact costs relating to taxes, tariffs, trade, labeling, marketing, manufacturing, and the overall availability of our products.

The Consumer Healthcare unit may be impacted by economic volatility and generic competition
affecting consumer spending patterns and market share gains of competitors  branded products or generic store brands. In addition, regulatory and legislative outcomes regarding the safety, efficacy or unintended uses of specific ingredients in
our Consumer Healthcare products may require withdrawal and/or reformulation of certain products (e.g. cough/cold products).       Global
Economic Conditions       The global economic downturn and the challenging global economic environment has not had, nor do we
anticipate it will have, a material impact on our liquidity. Due to our significant operating cash flow, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have
the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. As market conditions change, we will continue to monitor our liquidity position. However, there can be no assurance that our liquidity will not be affected by possible future
changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions.      In addition to industry-specific factors, we, like other
businesses, continue to face the effects of the challenging economic environment which have impacted our Biopharmaceutical operations in the U.S. and Europe, affecting the performance of products such as  Lipitor ,  Celebrex  and
 Lyrica . We believe that patients, experiencing the effects of the challenging economic environment, including high unemployment levels and increases in co-pays, sometimes switch to generic products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less
effective treatments to reduce their costs. Challenging economic conditions in the U.S. also have increased the number of patients in the Medicaid program, under which sales of pharmaceuticals are subject to substantial rebates and, in many
states, to formulary restrictions limiting access to brand-name drugs, including ours. In addition, during 2010, we continued to experience pricing pressure as a result of the economic environment in Europe, with government-mandated reductions in
prices for certain Biopharmaceutical products in certain European countries.       Outsourcing    
  Outsourcing to third parties in areas including transaction processing, accounting, information

24   

Table of Contents  

technology, manufacturing, clinical trials, non-clinical studies, research and development, safety and other areas could expose us to sub-optimal quality, missed deadlines or supply disruptions,
all with potential negative implications for our results.       Interactions with Healthcare Professionals    
  Risks and uncertainties apply where the Company provides something of value to a healthcare professional and/or government official,
which, if found to be improper, could potentially result in government enforcement actions and penalties. These risks may increase as non-U.S. jurisdictions adopt new anti-bribery laws and regulations.   
   Difficulties of Our Wholesale Distributors       In 2010, our largest wholesale distributor accounted for approximately 14% of our total revenue, and our top three wholesale distributors accounted for approximately 34% of our total revenue. If one of
our significant wholesale distributors encounters financial or other difficulties, such distributor may decrease the amount of business that it does with us, and we may be unable to collect all the amounts that the distributor owes us on a timely
basis or at all, which could negatively impact our results of operations.       Product Manufacturing and Marketing Risks    
  Difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or marketing, including, but not limited to, the inability to increase production capacity
commensurate with demand or the failure to predict market demand for, or to gain market acceptance of, approved products, or the possibility that the quality of incoming materials may be substandard and not detected or that we may fail to maintain
appropriate quality standards throughout the internal and external supply network, could affect future results.       Cost and Expense
Control/Unusual Events       Growth in costs and expenses, changes in product, segment and geographic mix and the impact of
acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, product withdrawals and other unusual events that could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization and organizational restructuring could adversely affect future results.
Such risks and uncertainties include, in particular, our ability to

successfully implement our announced plans regarding the Company s research and development function including the planned exit from the Company s Sandwich U.K. site, subject to works
council and union consultations, as well as our ability to realize the projected benefits of our cost-reduction initiatives, including those related to the Wyeth integration and to our research and development function.   
   Changes in Laws and Accounting Standards       Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax-rate changes, new tax laws and revised
tax law and regulatory interpretations including changes affecting the taxation by the U.S. of income earned outside the U.S. that result from the enactment in August 2010 of the Education, Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act of 2010, and that may
result from pending and possible future proposals), competition laws and environmental laws in the U.S. and other countries.       Terrorist
Activity       Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions,
including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of terrorist activity in the U.S. and other parts of the world and related U.S. military action overseas.       Legal Proceedings       We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in
various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial, securities, environmental and tax litigations and claims, government investigations, and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Litigation
is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. Although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on
our results of operations in any particular period. We also may fail to identify or prevent non-compliance with the laws and regulations associated with the dissemination of product information (approved and unapproved), potentially resulting in
government enforcement and damage to our reputation.   

25   

Table of Contents  

Patent claims include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various
products or processes. Although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with respect to all our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a
loss of patent protection for the drug at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of that drug and could materially affect future results of operations.       Business Development Activities       We expect to continue to enhance our
in-line products and product pipeline through acquisitions, licensing and alliances. See  Our Business Development Initiatives Strategy and Recent Transactions  in our 2010 Financial Report, which is incorporated by reference. However,
these enhancement plans are subject to the availability and cost of appropriate opportunities and competition from other pharmaceutical companies that are seeking similar opportunities.       Information Technology       We rely to a large extent upon sophisticated
information technology systems and infrastructure. The size and complexity of our computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion and random attack. Likewise, data privacy breaches by employees and others with
permitted access to our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. While we have invested heavily in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our
efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business.       Failure to Realize All of the
Anticipated Benefits of the Acquisition of Wyeth       The success of our acquisition of Wyeth will depend, in large part, on
our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from integrating the operations of Pfizer and Wyeth. If we are not able to successfully integrate the operations of the two legacy companies, the anticipated benefits and cost savings
of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected.

ITEM 1B.   
   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS      
  Not applicable.       

ITEM 2.   
   PROPERTIES         In 2010,
Pfizer continued to consolidate its operations to achieve efficiencies and to dispose of excess space. Following the acquisition of Wyeth at the end of 2009, the total operational real estate portfolio peaked at 70 million square feet. By the
end of 2010, the operational portfolio had been reduced to less than 67 million square feet. A further two million square feet of facilities currently are non-operational pending disposal. Our goal is to continue with further consolidation
in 2011.      Pfizer corporate headquarters will continue to be in New York City. With the exception of the Specialty Care
customer-focused unit (which is headquartered in Collegeville, Pennsylvania), the Biopharmaceutical units will continue to maintain their New York City headquarters.      The Diversified business units are headquartered in Madison, New Jersey.      In
2010, we successfully disposed of surplus office space in the northeast U.S. through exiting several leased facilities and by completing sales of significant office buildings at 685 Third Avenue, New York, and in New London, Connecticut.   
  Our Biopharmaceutical and Diversified businesses expect to continue to own and lease space around the world for sales and marketing,
customer service and administrative support functions. In many locations these businesses will be co-located to achieve synergies and operational efficiencies.      Our Global Research and Development (R D) facilities support our R D organizations around the world, with heavy concentration in North America and the U.K. We have started implementation of our
previously announced R D footprint reduction by moving forward on our facilities-disposition program. The sale of the R D St. Louis, Missouri campus was completed early in 2010 and we have begun the disposition process for the R D
sites at Princeton, New Jersey, Chazy, New York, and a portion of the La Jolla, California campus.   

26   

Table of Contents  

We have veterinary medicine research and development operations in owned or leased
facilities in Kalamazoo and Richland Township in Michigan; Durham, North Carolina; Thane, India; Sandwich, U.K.; Wavre, Belgium; and Brisbane, Australia.      As previously mentioned, the Company has announced a realigned research and development footprint, including a planned exit from the Sandwich, U.K. site, subject to works council and union consultations,
and a planned shift of resources from its Groton, Connecticut site to its Cambridge, Massachusetts site.      Pfizer Global Supply
(PGS) Division is headquartered in various locations with leadership primarily in New York, New York and in Peapack, New Jersey. PGS operates plants in 76 locations around the world that manufacture products for our organizations including Animal
Health, Consumer Healthcare, Emerging Markets, Established Products, Nutrition, Primary Care, Oncology and Specialty/Vaccines. Locations with major manufacturing facilities include Belgium, China, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Philippines, Puerto
Rico, Singapore and the United States. PGS also operates multiple distribution facilities around the world. Our Global Supply Division s plant network strategy will result in the exit from nine of these sites over the next

several years. In addition, the Capsugel unit has manufacturing facilities in 10 locations around the world. As previously announced, we are currently reviewing strategic alternatives for the
Capsugel unit, which may include divestiture.      In general, we believe that our properties are well- maintained, adequate and
suitable for their purposes. See Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements,  Property, Plant and Equipment , in our 2010 Financial Report, which discloses amounts invested in land, buildings and equipment and which is incorporated by
reference. See also the discussion under Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements,  Lease Commitments , in our 2010 Financial Report, which is also incorporated by reference.   

ITEM 3.   
   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS      
  Certain legal proceedings in which we are involved are discussed in Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements,  Legal Proceedings
and Contingencies , in our 2010 Financial Report, which is incorporated by reference.       

ITEM 4.   
   RESERVED      

27   

Table of Contents  

      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY    
  The executive officers of the Company are set forth in this table. Each holds the office or offices indicated until his or her successor
is chosen and qualified at the regular meeting of the Board of Directors to be held immediately following the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Each of the executive officers is a member of the Pfizer Executive Leadership Team.   

Name    
      
   Age   
      
     Position     
 
    Ian C. Read   
      
  57  
      
  President and Chief Executive Officer since December 2010. Senior Vice President; Group President, Worldwide Biopharmaceutical Businesses from October 2009 through December
2010. President, Worldwide Pharmaceutical Operations from August 2006 until October 2009. Since joining Pfizer in 1978 as an operational auditor, Mr. Read has held various positions of increasing responsibility in pharmaceutical
operations. He worked in Latin America through 1995, holding positions including Chief Financial Officer, Pfizer Mexico, and Country Manager, Pfizer Brazil. In 1996, Mr. Read was appointed President of Pfizer s International
Pharmaceuticals Group, with responsibility for Latin America and Canada. He became Executive Vice President, Europe in 2000, was named a Corporate Vice President in 2001, and assumed responsibility for Canada, in addition to Europe, in 2002. Mr.
Read later became accountable for operations in both the Africa/Middle East region and Latin America. Currently a Director of Kimberly-Clark Corporation. Serves on the Boards of U.S. Council for International Business and the European Federation of
Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations. Our Director since December 2010 and Chair of our Board s Executive Committee.   

Olivier Brandicourt   
      
  55  
      
  President and General Manager of Pfizer Primary Care since 2008. Senior Vice President and General Manager of U.S. Pratt Business Unit from 2007 until 2008. Managing
Director of the United Kingdom/Ireland Pfizer subsidiary from 2004 to 2007.   

Frank A. D Amelio   
      
  53  
      
  Executive Vice President, Business Operations and Chief Financial Officer since December 2010. Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from September 2007 until
December 2010. Prior to joining Pfizer he was Senior Executive Vice President of Integration and Chief Administrative Officer of Alcatel-Lucent from November 2006 until August 2007. Chief Operating Officer of Lucent Technologies from January 2006
until November 2006. Director of Humana, Inc. and Chair of the Humana Audit Committee. He is a Director of the Independent College Fund of New Jersey.   

Mikael Dolsten   
      
  52  
      
  President of Worldwide Research and Development since December 2010. Senior Vice President; President of Worldwide Research and Development from May 2010 until December 2010.
Senior Vice President; President of Pfizer BioTherapeutics Research   Development Group from October 2009 until May 2010. He was Senior Vice President of Wyeth and President, Wyeth Research from June 2008 until October 2009. He was a Private
Equity Partner at Orbimed Advisors, LLC from January 2008 until June 2008. Dr. Dolsten was Global Head, Corporate Division Pharma Research and Discovery, of Boehringer Ingelheim Corporation from 2003 to
2007.    
         28   

Table of Contents  

Geno J. Germano   
      
  50  
      
  President and General Manager, Pfizer Specialty Care and Oncology since December 2010. President and General Manager, Specialty Care from October 2009 until December
2010. President, U.S. Pharmaceuticals and Women s Health Care Unit, Wyeth Pharmaceuticals from 2008 through October 2009. President and General Manager, U.S. Pharmaceutical Business Unit, Wyeth Pharmaceuticals from 2007 through
2008. Executive Vice President and General Manager, Pharmaceutical Business Unit, Wyeth Pharmaceuticals from 2004 through 2007.   

Charles H. Hill   
      
  55  
      
  Executive Vice President, Worldwide Human Resources since December 2010. Senior Vice President, Human Resources for Worldwide Biopharmaceuticals Businesses from 2008 through
December 2010. Vice President, Human Resources, Worldwide Pharmaceutical Operations from 2004 through 2008.   

Douglas M. Lankler   
      
  45  
      
  Executive Vice President, Chief Compliance and Risk Officer since February 2011. Executive Vice President, Chief Compliance Officer since December 2010. Senior Vice President and
Chief Compliance Officer from January 2010 until December 2010. Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer from August 2009 until January 2010. Senior Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Chief Compliance
Officer from October 2006 until August 2009. Prior to October 2006, Mr. Lankler held various positions of increasing responsibility within the Pfizer Legal Division.   

Freda C. Lewis-Hall   
      
  56  
      
  Executive Vice President, Chief Medical Officer since December 2010. Senior Vice President, Chief Medical Officer from May 2009 until December 2010. Previously, she was Chief
Medical Officer and Executive Vice President, Medicines Development at Vertex Pharmaceuticals from June 2008 until May 2009. Dr. Lewis-Hall was Senior Vice President, U.S. Pharmaceuticals, Medical Affairs for Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
from 2003 until May 2008.   

Kristin C. Peck   
      
  39  
      
  Executive Vice President, Worldwide Business Development and Innovation since December 2010. Senior Vice President, Worldwide Business Development, Strategy and Innovation from
April 2010 until December 2010. Senior Vice President, Worldwide Strategy and Innovation from 2008 until April 2010. Vice President, Strategic Planning, from 2007 to 2008. Chief of Staff to the Vice Chairman from 2006 to 2007 and Senior Director,
Strategic Planning from 2004 to 2006. She is a director of King.   

Cavan M. Redmond   
      
  50  
      
  Group President, Animal Health, Consumer Healthcare, Capsugel and Corporate Strategy since December 2010. Senior Vice President; Group President, Pfizer Diversified Businesses
from October 2009 until December 2010. President, Wyeth Consumer Healthcare from December 2007 until October 2009. Executive Vice President and General Manager, BioPharma, Wyeth Pharmaceuticals from 2003 until December
2007.    
         29   

Table of Contents  

Natale S. Ricciardi   
      
  62  
      
  Senior Vice President; President, Pfizer Global Manufacturing (now Pfizer Global Supply) since October 2004. He had held a number of positions of increasing responsibility in
manufacturing before being named U.S. Area Vice President/Team Leader for Pfizer Global Manufacturing in 1999. Director of Mediacom Communications Corp.   

Amy W. Schulman   
      
  50  
      
  Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Business Unit Lead, Pfizer Nutrition since December 2010. Senior Vice President and General Counsel from June 2008 until December
2010. Ms. Schulman was a partner at the law firm of DLA Piper from 1997 until joining Pfizer in June 2008. Member of the Board of Directors of Wesleyan University and the Brooklyn Academy of Music.   

David S. Simmons   
      
  46  
      
  President and General Manager, Emerging Markets and Established Products units since December 2010. President and General Manager, Established Products from 2008 until
December 2010. Since joining Pfizer in 1996, Mr. Simmons has held various positions of increasing responsibility in pharmaceutical operations including, Regional President, Central Southern Europe; Vice President of Marketing, Pfizer Canada; and
Country Manager, Pfizer Greece. He is a member of the U.S.-India Business Council.   

Sally Susman   
      
  49  
      
  Executive Vice President, Policy, External Affairs and Communications of Pfizer since December 2010. Senior Vice President, Policy, External Affairs and Communications from
December 2009 until December 2010. Senior Vice President and Chief Communications Officer from February 2008 until December 2009. Prior to joining Pfizer, Ms. Susman held senior level positions at The Estee Lauder Companies, including Executive Vice
President from 2004 to January 2008.    
         30   

Table of Contents  

      PART II    

ITEM 5.   
   MARKET FOR THE COMPANY S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES      
  The principal market for our Common Stock is the New York Stock Exchange. Our stock is also listed on the London Stock Exchange and the
SIX Swiss Stock Exchange and is traded on various United States regional stock exchanges. Additional information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the table captioned  Quarterly Consolidated Financial Data (Unaudited)  in
our 2010 Financial Report.      This table provides certain information with respect to our purchases of shares of the
Company s Common Stock during the fiscal fourth quarter of 2010:       Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
(a)       

(a)     
    On January 23, 2008, Pfizer announced that the Board of Directors had authorized a $5 billion share-purchase plan (the 2008 Stock Purchase Plan)
to be utilized from time to time. On February 1, 2011, Pfizer announced that (i) the Board of Directors had authorized a new $5 billion share-purchase plan which, together with the balance remaining under the 2008 Stock Purchase Plan,
increases our total current authorization to $9 billion and (ii) the Company anticipates purchasing $5 billion of its common stock in 2011, with the remaining authorized amount available in 2012 and beyond.      

(b)     
    These columns reflect the following transactions during the fourth quarter of 2010: (i) the surrender to Pfizer of 372,977 shares of common stock
to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units issued to employees; and (ii) the open market purchase by the trustee of 39,046 shares of common stock in connection with the
reinvestment of dividends paid on common stock held in trust for employees who were granted performance   contingent share awards and who deferred receipt of such awards.      
         31   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 6.   
   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA      
  Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the  Financial Summary  in our 2010 Financial Report.   

ITEM 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      
  Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the Financial Review section of our 2010 Financial Report.   

ITEM 7A.   
   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK         Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading  Financial Risk Management  in our 2010 Financial Report.   

ITEM 8.   
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA         Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the Consolidated Financial Statements  in our 2010 Financial Report
and from the consolidated financial statements, related notes and supplementary data in our 2010 Financial Report.       

ITEM 9.   
   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE      
  None.       

ITEM 9A.   
   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES          Disclosure
Controls       As of the end of the period covered by this 2010 Form 10-K, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision
and with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures

(as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act). Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that our
disclosure controls and procedures are effective in alerting them in a timely manner to material information required to be disclosed in our periodic reports filed with the SEC.       Internal Control over Financial Reporting       Management s report on the
Company s internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act), and the related report of our independent registered public accounting firm, are included in our 2010
Financial Report under the headings  Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  and  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting , respectively, and are
incorporated by reference.       Changes in Internal Controls       During our most recent fiscal quarter, there has not been any change in our internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. However, we do wish to highlight some changes which, taken together, are expected to have a favorable impact on our controls over a
multi-year period. We continue to pursue a multi-year initiative to outsource some transaction-processing activities within certain accounting processes and are migrating to a consistent enterprise resource planning system across the organization.
These are enhancements of ongoing activities to support the growth of our financial shared service capabilities and standardize our financial systems. None of these initiatives is in response to any identified deficiency or weakness in our internal
control over financial reporting.       

ITEM 9B.   
   OTHER INFORMATION         Not
applicable.   

32   

Table of Contents  

PART III    

ITEM 10.   
   DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE         Information about our Directors is incorporated by reference from the discussion under Item 1 of our 2011 Proxy Statement. Information about compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act is
incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in our 2011 Proxy Statement. Information about the Pfizer Policies on Business Conduct governing our employees,
including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer, and the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics governing our Directors, is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading  Pfizer
Policies on Business Ethics and Conduct  and  Code of Conduct for Directors  in our 2011 Proxy Statement. Information regarding the procedures by which our stockholders may recommend nominees to our Board of Directors is incorporated by
reference from the discussion under the headings  Governance of the Company   Governance Information   Criteria for Board Membership  and  Requirements, Including Deadlines, for Submission of Proxy Proposals, Nomination of Directors
and Other Business of Shareholders  in our 2011 Proxy Statement. Information about our Audit Committee, including the members of the Committee, and our Audit Committee financial experts, is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the
heading  The Audit Committee  in our 2011 Proxy Statement. The balance of the information required by this item is contained in the discussion entitled  Executive Officers of the Company  in Part I of this 2010 Form 10-K.   

ITEM 11.   
   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION      
  Information about Director and executive compensation is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the headings:  Compensation
of Non-Employee Directors, Executive Compensation,  and  Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  in our 2011 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12.   
   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS      
  Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the headings  Equity Compensation Plan
Information  in our 2011 Proxy Statement.       

ITEM 13.   
   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE         Information about certain relationships and transactions with related parties is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the headings  Review of Related Person Transactions  and
 Transactions with Related Persons  in our 2011 Proxy Statement. Information about director independence is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading  Director Independence  in our 2011 Proxy Statement.   

ITEM 14.   
   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES         Information about the fees for professional services rendered by our independent auditors in 2010 and 2009 is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading  Audit and Non-Audit Fees
 in Item 2 of our 2011 Proxy Statement. Our Audit Committee s policy on pre-approval of audit and permissible non-audit services of our independent auditors is incorporated by reference from the section captioned  Policy on Audit
Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  in Item 2 of our 2011 Proxy Statement.

33   

Table of Contents  

      PART IV    

ITEM 15.   
   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES            15(a)(1) Financial Statements.  The following consolidated financial statements, related notes, report of independent registered public accounting firm and supplementary
data from our 2010 Financial Report are incorporated by reference into Item 8 of Part II of this 2010 Form 10-K:       

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the Consolidated Financial Statements      

Consolidated Statements of Income          

Consolidated Balance Sheets          

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity          

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows          

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements          

Quarterly Consolidated Financial Data (Unaudited)            15(a)(2) Financial Statement Schedules.  Schedules are omitted because they are not required or because the information is provided elsewhere in the financial statements.
The financial statements of unconsolidated subsidiaries are omitted because, considered in the aggregate, they would not constitute a significant subsidiary.         15(a)(3) Exhibits.  These exhibits are available upon request. Requests should be directed to Matthew Lepore, Vice President and Corporate Secretary, Chief
Counsel-Corporate Governance, Pfizer Inc., 235 East 42nd Street, New York, NY 10017-5755. The exhibit numbers preceded by an asterisk (*) indicate exhibits filed with this 2010 Form 10-K. All other exhibit numbers indicate exhibits filed
by incorporation by reference. Exhibit numbers 10(1) through 10(21) are management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.       
 
         34   

Table of Contents  

4(5)  
      
  Except as set forth in Exhibits 4(1)   (4) above, the instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt securities of the Company and its subsidiaries have been
omitted.   1      

10(1)  
      
  2001 Stock and Incentive Plan is incorporated by reference from our Proxy Statement for the 2001 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.   

10(2)  
      
  Pfizer Inc. 2004 Stock Plan, as Amended and Restated, is incorporated by reference from our Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.   

10(3)  
      
  Form of Stock Option Grant Notice and Summary of Key Terms is incorporated by reference from our 10-Q report for the period ended September 26, 2004.   

10(4)  
      
  Form of Performance-Contingent Share Award Grant Notice is incorporated by reference from our 10-Q report for the period ended September 26, 2004.   

10(5)  
      
  Stock and Incentive Plan, as amended through July 1, 1999, is incorporated by reference from our 1999 10-K report.   

10(6)  
      
  Nonfunded Supplemental Retirement Plan is incorporated by reference from our 1996 10-K report.   

10(7)  
      
  Nonfunded Deferred Compensation and Supplemental Savings Plan, as amended and restated as of February 1, 2002, is incorporated by reference from our 2002 10-K
report.   

10(8)  
      
  Executive Annual Incentive Plan is incorporated by reference from our Proxy Statement for the 1997 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.   

10(9)  
      
  Deferred Compensation Plan is incorporated by reference from our 1997 10-K report.   

10(10)  
      
  Non-Employee Directors  Retirement Plan (frozen as of October 1996) is incorporated by reference from our 1996 10-K report.   

10(11)  
      
  Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors is incorporated by reference from our 1996 10-K report.   

10(12)  
      
  The form of Indemnification Agreement with each of our non-employee Directors is incorporated by reference from our 1996 10-K report.   

10(13)  
      
  The form of Indemnification Agreement with each of the Named Executive Officers identified in our 2011 Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference from our 1997 10-K
report.   

10(14)  
      
  Post-Retirement Consulting Agreement, dated as of April 20, 2000, between us and William C. Steere, Jr., is incorporated by reference from our 10-Q report for the period ended April
2, 2000.   

10(15)  
      
  Severance Agreement, dated August 22, 2007, between us and Frank A. D Amelio and letter to Frank A. D Amelio regarding replacement pension benefit dated
August 22, 2007, are incorporated by reference from our 8-K report filed on August 22, 2007.   

10(16)  
      
  Executive Severance Plan is incorporated by referenced from our 8-K report filed on February 20, 2009.   

10(17)  
      
  Annual Retainer Unit Award Plan (for Non-Employee Directors) (frozen as of March 1, 2006) as amended, is incorporated by reference from our 2008 10-K report.   

10(18)  
      
  Nonfunded Deferred Compensation and Unit Award Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended, is incorporated by reference from our 2008 10-K report.   

10(19)  
      
  Nonfunded and Deferred Compensation and Unit Award Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended, is incorporated by reference from our 10-Q report for the period ended April 4,
2010.        

1     
    We agree to furnish to the SEC, upon request, a copy of each instrument with respect to issuances of long-term debt of the Company and its
subsidiaries.      
         35   

Table of Contents  

10(20)  
     
  Form of Special Award Letter Agreement is incorporated by reference from our 8-K report filed on October 28, 2009.   

10(21)  
     
  Separation Agreement, dated as of December 5, 2010, between us and Jeffrey B. Kindler, is incorporated by reference from our 8-K report filed on December 9, 2010.   

*12  
     
  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.   

*13  
     
  Portions of the 2010 Financial Report, which, except for those sections incorporated by reference, are furnished solely for the information of the SEC and are not to be deemed
 filed.    

*21  
     
  Subsidiaries of the Company.   

*23  
     
  Consent of KPMG LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.   

*24  
     
  Power of Attorney (included as part of signature page).   

*31.1  
     
  Certification by the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   

*31.2  
     
  Certification by the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   

*32.1  
     
  Certification by the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   

*32.2  
     
  Certification by the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   

*101.INS  
     
  XBRL Instance Document   

*101.SCH  
     
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema   

*101.CAL  
     
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase   

*101.LAB  
     
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase   

*101.PRE  
     
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase   

*101.DEF  
     
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Document    
         36   

Table of Contents  

    SIGNATURES       Under the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report was signed on behalf of the Registrant by the authorized person named below.   

Pfizer Inc.   

Dated: February 24, 2011  

By:   

/ S /    M ATTHEW  L EPORE    

Matthew Lepore   
   Vice President and Corporate Secretary,       Chief Counsel   Corporate Governance         We, the
undersigned directors and officers of Pfizer Inc., hereby severally constitute Amy W. Schulman and Matthew Lepore, and each of them singly, our true and lawful attorneys with full power to them and each of them to sign for us, in our names in the
capacities indicated below, any and all amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.      Under the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report was signed by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.   

Signature    
      
     Title    
      
     Date     

/ S /    I AN  C. R EAD   
   Ian C. Read    
      
    President, Chief Executive Officer and Director     (Principal Executive Officer)   
      
  February 24, 2011   

/ S /    F RANK  A. D A MELIO   
   Frank A. D Amelio    
      
    Executive Vice President, Business     Operations and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)   
      
  February 24, 2011   

/ S /    L ORETTA  V. C ANGIALOSI   
   Loretta V. Cangialosi    
      
    Senior Vice President Controller     (Principal Accounting Officer)   
      
  February 24, 2011   

/ S /    D ENNIS  A. A USIELLO   
   Dennis A. Ausiello    
      
  Director  
      
  February 24, 2011   

/ S /    M ICHAEL  S. B ROWN   
   Michael S. Brown    
      
  Director  
      
  February 24, 2011   

/ S /    M. A NTHONY  B URNS   
   M. Anthony Burns    
      
  Director  
      
  February 24, 2011   

/ S /    R OBERT  N. B URT   
   Robert N. Burt    
      
  Director  
      
  February 24, 2011   

/ S /    W. D ON  C ORNWELL   
   W. Don Cornwell    
      
  Director  
      
  February 24, 2011   

/ S /    F RANCES  D. F ERGUSSON   
   Frances D. Fergusson    
      
  Director  
      
  February 24, 2011   

/ S /    W ILLIAM  H. G RAY  III  
   William H. Gray III    
      
  Director  
      
  February 24, 2011    
         37   

Table of Contents  

38   

<EX-12>
 2
 dex12.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

Exhibit 12        PFIZER INC. AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES        COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO
FIXED CHARGES        

(b)  
  Preferred stock dividends are from our Series A convertible perpetual preferred stock held by an Employee Stock Ownership Plan assumed in connection with our
acquisition of Pharmacia in 2003.         

(c)  
  Rents included in the computation consist of one-third of rental expense which we believe to be a conservative estimate of an interest factor in our leases, which are
not material.     

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 3
 dex13.htm
 PORTIONS OF THE 2010 FINANCIAL REPORT

Portions of the 2010 Financial Report 

EXHIBIT 13    

Pfizer
Inc.      2010 Financial Report       

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             Introduction       Our Financial Review is provided to assist readers in understanding the results of operations,
financial condition and cash flows of Pfizer Inc. (the Company). It should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The discussion in this Financial Review contains
forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors such as those discussed in Part 1,
Item 1A,  Risk Factors  of our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the  Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results ,  Our Operating Environment  and  Our Strategy  sections
of this Financial Review.      In accordance with Pfizer s international year-end, the financial information included in our consolidated financial
statements for our subsidiaries operating outside the United States (U.S.) is as of and for the year ended November 30 for each year presented. On October 15, 2009, we completed our acquisition of Wyeth in a cash-and-stock transaction
valued on that date at approximately $68 billion. Commencing from the acquisition date, our financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of Wyeth. As a result, legacy Wyeth operations are reflected in our
results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010. In accordance with our domestic and international fiscal year-ends, our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009 reflect approximately two-and-a-half
months of the fourth calendar quarter of 2009 in the case of Wyeth s U.S. operations and approximately one-and-a-half months of the fourth calendar quarter of 2009 in the case of Wyeth s international operations.   
  The Financial Review is organized as follows:       

Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook . This section, beginning on page 2, provides information about the following: our
business; our 2010 performance; our operating environment, including the impacts and anticipated impacts of the U.S. healthcare legislation enacted in March 2010; our strategy, including our recently announced initiative to improve the innovation
and overall productivity of our research and development operation; our business development initiatives, such as acquisitions, dispositions, licensing and collaborations; our financial guidance for 2011; and our financial targets for 2012.

Accounting Policies . This section, beginning on page 10, discusses those accounting policies that we consider important in understanding Pfizer s
consolidated financial statements. For additional discussion of our accounting policies, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 1. Significant Accounting Policies .      

Acquisition of Wyeth . This section, beginning on page 15, discusses our acquisition of Wyeth, the use of fair value and the recognition of assets acquired
and liabilities assumed in connection with our acquisition of Wyeth. For additional details related to the acquisition of Wyeth, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 2. Acquisition of Wyeth .      

Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income.  This section begins on page 20, and consists of the following sections:      

Revenues.  This section, beginning on page 20, provides an analysis of our revenues and products for the three years ended December 31, 2010,
including an overview of important product developments.          

Costs and Expenses . This section, beginning on page 32, provides a discussion about our costs and expenses.      

Provision for Taxes on Income.  This section, beginning on page 36, provides a discussion of items impacting our tax provision for the periods presented
and of two items that will impact our results beginning in 2011.          

Adjusted Income . This section, beginning on page 37, provides a discussion of an alternative view of performance used by management.

Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources . This section, beginning on page 41, provides an analysis of our consolidated balance sheets as of
December 31, 2010 and 2009, and consolidated cash flows for each of the three years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, as well as a discussion of our outstanding debt and other commitments that existed as of December 31, 2010.
Included in the discussion of outstanding debt is a discussion of the amount of financial capacity available to help fund Pfizer s future activities.      

New Accounting Standards . This section, on page 45, discusses accounting standards that we recently have adopted, as well as those that recently have been
issued but not yet adopted by us.          

Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results . This section, beginning on page 45, provides a description of the risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements presented in this Financial Review relating to our financial and operating performance, business plans and prospects, in-line
products and product candidates, and share-repurchase and dividend-rate plans. Such forward-looking statements are based on management s current expectations about future events, which are inherently susceptible to uncertainty and changes in
circumstances. Also included in this section are discussions of Financial Risk Management and Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.      

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
              Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook         Our Business
      Our mission is to apply science and our global resources to improve health and well-being at every stage of life. We strive to set the standard for
quality, safety and value in the discovery, development and manufacturing of medicines for people and animals. Our diversified global healthcare portfolio includes human and animal biologic and small molecule medicines and vaccines, as well as
nutritional products and many of the world s best-known consumer products. Every day, we work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness, prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases of our time. We
also collaborate with other biopharmaceutical companies, healthcare providers, governments and local communities to support and expand access to reliable, affordable healthcare around the world. Our revenues are derived from the sale of our
products, as well as through alliance agreements, under which we co-promote products discovered by other companies.       Our 2010 Performance
       Revenues  increased 36% in 2010 to $67.8 billion, compared to $50.0 billion in 2009, due to the inclusion of revenues from legacy Wyeth
products for a full year in 2010 compared to part of the year in 2009, which favorably impacted revenues by $18.1 billion or 37%, and the favorable impact of foreign exchange, which increased revenues by approximately $1.1 billion, or 2%, partially
offset by the net revenue decrease from legacy Pfizer products of $1.4 billion, or 3%.      The significant impacts on revenues for 2010, compared to 2009,
are as follows:       

(a)    
    Reflects the inclusion of revenues from legacy Wyeth products.      

(b)    
    Effexor lost exclusivity in the U.S. in July 2010. Lipitor lost exclusivity in Canada in May 2010, Spain in July 2010 and Brazil in August 2010 and faces intense
competition in the U.S. and other markets from generic and branded products. Camptosar lost exclusivity in Europe in July 2009. Norvasc lost exclusivity in Canada in July 2009.      

(c)    
    Relates to  All Other  category included in the  Revenues   Major Biopharmaceutical Products  table presented in this Financial Review.

* Calculation not meaningful.         Income from continuing
operations  was $8.3 billion in 2010 compared to $8.6 billion in 2009, reflecting:       

the inclusion of a full year of expenses associated with the legacy Wyeth operations in 2010, compared to part of the year in 2009;      

the impact of purchase accounting adjustments primarily related to the Wyeth acquisition on  Cost of sales  and  Amortization of intangible assets ;

impairment charges of $2.1 billion (pre-tax) primarily related to certain intangible assets acquired as part of the Wyeth acquisition and one legacy Pfizer
product, Thelin (see further discussion in the  Costs and Expenses  Other (Income)/Deductions  Net  section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 2. Acquisition of
Wyeth ,  Note 3B. Other Significant Transactions and Events: Asset Impairment Charges, Note 6. Other (Income)/Deductions  net  and  Note 12B. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets: Other Intangible Assets );

higher net interest expense, mainly due to the issuance of debt in connection with the acquisition of Wyeth and the addition of legacy Wyeth debt, as well as
lower interest income due to lower interest rates coupled with lower average investment balances;          

an additional charge of $1.3 billion (pre-tax) for asbestos litigation related to our wholly owned subsidiary Quigley Company, Inc. (see Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements   Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies );      

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       

lower revenues for legacy Pfizer products;          

a write-off of Wyeth-related inventory of $212 million (pre-tax) (which includes a purchase accounting fair value adjustment of $104 million) (see Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 3B. Other Significant Transactions and Events: Asset Impairment Charges  and  Note 10. Inventories ); and      

the non-recurrence of a $482 million gain recorded in 2009 related to ViiV Healthcare Limited (ViiV), a joint venture with GlaxoSmithKline plc (see Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements   Note3E. Other Significant Transactions and Events: Equity-Method Investments) ,      
  partially offset by:       

higher revenues for legacy Wyeth products due to the inclusion of a full year of revenues from legacy Wyeth products in 2010 compared to part of the year in
2009;          

a decrease in the 2010 effective tax rate (see further discussion in the  Provision for Taxes on Income  section of this Financial review);

the favorable impact of foreign exchange; and          

lower  Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs .          Our Operating Environment        U.S. Healthcare Legislation    
   Principal Provisions Affecting Us       In March 2010, the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (together, the U.S. Healthcare Legislation), was enacted in the U.S. This legislation has both current and longer-term impacts on us, as discussed
below.      Certain provisions of the U.S. Healthcare Legislation became effective in 2010 or on January 1, 2011, while other provisions will become
effective on various dates over the next several years. The principal provisions affecting us provide for the following:       

an increase, from 15.1% to 23.1%, in the minimum rebate on branded prescription drugs sold to Medicaid beneficiaries (effective January 1, 2010);

extension of Medicaid prescription drug rebates to drugs dispensed to enrollees in certain Medicaid managed care organizations (effective March 23, 2010);

expansion of the types of institutions eligible for the  Section 340B discounts  for outpatient drugs provided to hospitals meeting the qualification
criteria under Section 340B of the Public Health Service Act of 1944 (effective January 1, 2010);          

discounts on branded prescription drug sales to Medicare Part D participants who are in the Medicare  coverage gap,  also known as the  doughnut
hole  (effective January 1, 2011); and          

an annual fee payable to the federal government (which is not deductible for U.S. income tax purposes) based on our prior-calendar-year share relative to other
companies of branded prescription drug sales to specified government programs (effective January 1, 2011, with the total fee to be paid each year by the pharmaceutical industry increasing annually through 2018).      
  In addition, the U.S. Healthcare Legislation includes provisions that affect the cost of certain of our postretirement benefit plans. Companies currently are
permitted to take a deduction for federal income tax purposes in an amount equal to the subsidy received from the federal government related to their provision of prescription drug coverage to Medicare-eligible retirees. Under the U.S. Healthcare
Legislation, effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2012, companies will no longer be able to take that deduction. While the loss of this deduction will not take effect for a few years, under U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles, we were required to account for the impact in the first quarter of 2010, the period when the provision was enacted into law, through a write-off of the deferred tax asset associated with those previously expected future income tax
deductions. Other provisions of the U.S. Healthcare Legislation relating to our postretirement benefit plans will affect the measurement of our obligations under those plans, but those impacts are not expected to be significant.   
   Current and Anticipated Financial Impacts       Our revenues were
adversely impacted by $289 million in 2010, compared to last year, as a result of the increase in the minimum rebate on branded prescription drugs sold to Medicaid beneficiaries and the extension of Medicaid prescription drug rebates to drugs
dispensed to enrollees in certain Medicaid managed care organizations and, to a lesser extent, the expansion of the types of institutions eligible for the  340B discounts  for outpatient drugs.   
  In December 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued an accounting standard update which provides guidance that the annual fee based on branded
prescription drug sales to specified government programs should be recorded as an operating expense rather than as a reduction of revenues. After consideration of this new accounting standard, we currently expect that the provisions of the U.S.
Healthcare Legislation that became effective in 2010, together with the discounts on branded prescription drug sales to Medicare Part D participants who are in the Medicare  doughnut hole  that became effective on January 1, 2011,
will adversely affect revenues by approximately $600 million in 2011 and $500 million in 2012. In addition, we currently expect   

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            
that the annual fee based on branded prescription drug sales to specified government programs will adversely affect  Selling, informational and administrative expense s by approximately $300
million in each of 2011 and 2012. These estimates are reflected in our 2011 financial guidance and 2012 financial targets, announced on February 1, 2011 (see the  Our Financial Guidance for 2011  and  Our Financial Targets for
2012  sections of this Financial Review for additional information).      In 2010, our income tax expense was impacted by, among other things, the
write-off, in the first quarter of 2010, of the deferred tax asset of approximately $270 million to account for the loss of the deduction, for tax years beginning after December 31, 2012, of an amount equal to the subsidy from the federal
government related to our provision of prescription drug coverage to Medicare-eligible retirees. This write-off was recorded in  Provision for taxes on income  in our Consolidated Statement of Income. For additional information on the impact of
this write-off on our effective tax rate for 2010, see the  Provision for Taxes on Income  section of this Financial Review.      The financial
impact of U.S. healthcare reform may be affected by certain additional factors over the next few years, including pending implementation guidance relating to the U.S. Healthcare Legislation and certain healthcare reform proposals. In addition, the
U.S. Healthcare Legislation requires that, except in certain circumstances, individuals obtain health insurance beginning in 2014, and it also provides for an expansion of Medicaid coverage in 2014. It is expected that, as a result of these
provisions, there will be a substantial increase in the number of Americans with health insurance beginning in 2014, a significant portion of whom will be eligible for Medicaid. We anticipate that this will increase demand for pharmaceutical
products overall. However, in view of the many uncertainties, we are unable at this time to determine whether and to what extent sales of Pfizer prescription pharmaceutical products in the U.S. will be impacted.   
   Biotechnology Products       The U.S. Healthcare Legislation
provides an abbreviated legal pathway to approve biosimilars (also referred to as  follow-on biologics ). Innovator biologics were granted 12 years of exclusivity, with a potential six-month pediatric extension. After the exclusivity
period expires, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) could approve biosimilar versions of innovator biologics. The regulatory implementation of these provisions is ongoing and expected to take several years. If competitors are able to obtain
marketing approval for biosimilars referencing our biotechnology products, our biotechnology products may become subject to competition from biosimilars, with the attendant competitive pressure.   
  The budget proposal submitted to Congress by President Obama in February 2011 includes a provision that would reduce the base exclusivity period for biologics from
12 years to seven years. There is no assurance that this provision will be enacted into law.       Other Industry-Specific Challenges    
  The majority of our revenues come from the manufacture and sale of Biopharmaceutical products. The biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and we face a
number of industry-specific challenges, which can significantly impact our results. These factors include among others: the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights, the regulatory environment and pipeline productivity, pricing and access
pressures, and increasing competition among branded products.       The Loss or Expiration of Intellectual Property Rights   As is inherent in
the biopharmaceutical industry, the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues. Many of our products have multiple patents that expire at varying dates, thereby strengthening our overall
patent protection. However, once patent protection has expired or has been lost prior to the expiration date as a result of a legal challenge, we lose exclusivity on these products, and generic pharmaceutical manufacturers generally produce similar
products and sell them for a lower price. This price competition can substantially decrease our revenues for products that lose exclusivity, often in a very short period of time. While small molecule products are impacted in such a manner, biologics
currently have additional barriers to entry related to the manufacture of such products and, therefore, generic competition may not be as significant. A number of our current products are expected to face significantly increased generic competition
over the next few years.      In the U.S., we lost exclusivity for Effexor XR in July 2010, Aricept 5mg and 10mg tablets in November 2010, for Protonix in
January 2011, and Vfend tablets in February 2011. We lost exclusivity for Lipitor in Canada in May 2010, Spain in July 2010 and Brazil in August 2010. In addition, the basic patent for Vfend tablets in Brazil expired in January 2011. We expect to
lose exclusivity for various products over the next few years, including the following in 2011:       

Xalatan and Xalacom in the majority of major European markets in July 2011. We are pursuing a pediatric extension for Xalatan in the EU. If we are successful,
the exclusivity period for both Xalatan and Xalacom in the majority of major European markets will be extended by six months to January 2012; and          

Lipitor and Caduet in the U.S. in November 2011 (see additional discussion below).         We expect that we will lose exclusivity for Lipitor in the U.S. in November 2011 and, as a result, will lose the substantial portion of our U.S. revenues from Lipitor shortly thereafter. We have granted Watson
Laboratories, Inc. (Watson) the exclusive right to sell the authorized generic version of Lipitor in the U.S. for a period of five years, which is expected to commence in November 2011. As Watson s exclusive supplier, we will manufacture and
sell generic atorvastatin tablets to Watson. In markets outside the U.S., Lipitor has lost exclusivity in certain countries and will lose exclusivity at various times in certain other countries. We expect to maintain a significant portion of the
Lipitor revenues in developed markets outside the U.S. through 2011. We are pursuing a pediatric extension for Lipitor in the EU. If we are successful, the exclusivity period for Lipitor in the majority of major European markets will be extended by
six months to May 2012. We do not expect that Lipitor revenues in emerging markets will be materially impacted by the loss of exclusivity in 2011 or over the next several years. In 2010, revenues from Lipitor were approximately $5.3 billion in the
U.S. (approximately 18% of our total 2010 U.S. revenues) and approximately $5.4 billion in markets outside the U.S. (about 14% of our total 2010 international revenues, of which approximately $900 million was attributable to emerging markets).

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            Our financial guidance for 2011 and our financial targets for 2012 reflect the anticipated impact in those years of the loss of exclusivity of various products (see the  Our Financial Guidance for 2011 
and  Our Financial Targets for 2012  sections of this Financial Review).       Pipeline Productivity and Regulatory
Environment   The discovery and development of safe, effective new products, as well as the development of additional uses for existing products, are necessary for the continued strength of our businesses. We are confronted by
increasing regulatory scrutiny of drug safety and efficacy, even as we continue to gather safety and other data on our products, before and after the products have been launched. Our product lines must be replenished over time in order to offset
revenue losses when products lose their exclusivity, as well as to provide for revenue and earnings growth. We devote considerable resources to research and development (R D) activities. These activities involve a high degree of risk and may
take many years, and with respect to any specific research and development project, there can be no assurance that the development of any particular product candidate or new indication for an in-line product will achieve desired clinical endpoints
and safety profile or will be approved by regulators and lead to a successful commercial product.      We received  warning letters  from the FDA
in April 2010 with respect to the clinical trial for Geodon for the treatment of bipolar mania in children and in June 2010 with respect to the reporting of certain post-marketing adverse events relating to certain drugs. We are working with the FDA
to address the issues raised in those letters.       Pricing and Access Pressures   Governments, managed care organizations and other payer
groups continue to seek increasing discounts on our products through a variety of means such as leveraging their purchasing power, implementing price controls, and demanding price cuts (directly or by rebate actions). In particular, as a result of
the economic environment in Europe, the industry has experienced significant pricing pressures in European markets. There were government-mandated price reductions for certain biopharmaceutical products in certain European countries in 2010, and we
anticipate continuing pricing pressures in Europe in 2011. Also, health insurers and benefit plans continue to limit access to certain of our medicines by imposing formulary restrictions in favor of the increased use of generics. In prior years,
Presidential advisory groups tasked with reducing healthcare spending have recommended and legislative changes have been proposed that would allow the U.S. government to directly negotiate prices with pharmaceutical manufacturers on behalf of
Medicare beneficiaries, which we expect would restrict access to and reimbursement for our products. There have also been a number of legislative proposals seeking to allow importation of medicines into the U.S. from countries whose governments
control the price of medicines, despite the increased risk of counterfeit products entering the supply chain. If importation of medicines is allowed, an increase in cross-border trade in medicines subject to foreign price controls in other countries
could occur and negatively impact our revenues.       Competition Among Branded Products   Many of our products face competition in the form
of branded products, which treat similar diseases or indications. These competitive pressures can have an adverse impact on our future revenues.       The
Overall Economic Environment       In addition to industry-specific factors, we, like other businesses, continue to face the effects of the challenging
economic environment, which have impacted our biopharmaceutical operations in the U.S. and Europe, affecting the performance of products such as Lipitor, Celebrex and Lyrica. We believe that patients, experiencing the effects of the challenging
economic environment, including high unemployment levels, and increases in co-pays sometimes are switching to generics, delaying treatments, skipping doses or using less effective treatments to reduce their costs. Challenging economic conditions in
the U.S. also have increased the number of patients in the Medicaid program, under which sales of pharmaceuticals are subject to substantial rebates and, in many states, to formulary restrictions limiting access to brand-name drugs, including ours.
In addition, during 2010, we continued to experience pricing pressure as a result of the economic environment in Europe, with government-mandated reductions in prices for certain biopharmaceutical products in certain European countries.   
  Despite the challenging financial markets, Pfizer maintains a strong financial position. Due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to
capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. Our long-term debt is rated high quality by both
Standard   Poor s and Moody s Investors Service. As market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. We have taken and will continue to take a conservative approach to our financial investments. Both
short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high-quality, highly liquid, well-diversified, available-for-sale debt securities. For further discussion of our financial condition, see the  Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital
Resources  section of this Financial Review.      A significant portion of our revenues and earnings is exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. We
seek to manage our foreign exchange risk in part through operational means, including managing same-currency revenues in relation to same-currency costs and same-currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities. Depending on market
conditions, foreign exchange risk also is managed through the use of derivative financial instruments and foreign currency debt. As we operate in multiple foreign currencies, including the euro, the U.K. pound, the Japanese yen, the Canadian dollar
and approximately 100 other currencies, changes in those currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will impact our revenues and expenses. If the U.S. dollar weakens against a specific foreign currency, our revenues will increase, having a positive
impact, and our overall expenses will increase, having a negative impact, on net income. Likewise, if the U.S. dollar strengthens against a specific foreign currency, our revenues will decrease, having a negative impact, and our overall expenses
will decrease, having a positive impact, on net income. Therefore, significant shifts in currencies can impact our short-term results as well as our long-term forecasts and targets.   

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             Our Strategy       We believe that our medicines provide significant value for both healthcare providers and
patients, not only from the improved treatment of diseases but also from a reduction in other healthcare costs, such as emergency room or hospitalization costs, as well as improvements in health, wellness and productivity. We continue to actively
engage in dialogues about the value of our products and how we can best work with patients, physicians and payers to prevent and treat disease and improve outcomes. We will work within the current legal and pricing structures, as well as continue to
review our pricing arrangements and contracting methods with payers, to maximize access to patients and minimize any adverse impact on our revenues.      In
response to the challenging operating environment, we have taken and continue to take many steps to strengthen our Company and better position ourselves for the future. We believe in a comprehensive approach to our challenges organizing our
business to maximize research, development and commercial opportunities, diversifying our sources of revenue, restructuring when necessary to capture cost-reduction opportunities, opportunistically investing in acquisitions and collaboration
arrangements and protecting our intellectual property. Selected highlights are as follows:       

We believe that our Primary Care, Specialty Care, Established Products, Oncology and Emerging Markets biopharmaceutical business unit structure enables us to
better:          

manage our products  growth and development from proof-of-concept throughout their entire time on the market;      

bring innovation to our  go to market  promotional and commercial strategies;      

develop ways to further enhance the value of established products, including those that have lost or are about to lose their exclusivity;

expand our already substantial presence in emerging markets; and      

create product-line extensions where feasible.          

Our Animal Health, Consumer Healthcare, Nutrition and Capsugel business units provide diverse sources of revenues.      

Through our PharmaTherapeutics research group (discovery of small molecules and related modalities) and BioTherapeutics research group (large-molecule research,
including vaccines), we continue to develop and deliver innovative medicines that will benefit patients around the world and make the investments that we believe are necessary to serve patients  needs and to generate long-term growth.
        On February 1, 2011, we announced that we are continuing to closely evaluate our global research and development
function and will accelerate our current strategies to improve innovation and overall productivity by prioritizing areas with the greatest scientific and commercial promise, utilizing appropriate risk/return profiles and focusing on areas with the
highest potential to deliver value in the near term and over time. To that end, our research will primarily focus on five high-priority areas that have a mix of small and large molecules immunology and inflammation, oncology, cardiovascular and
metabolic diseases, neuroscience and pain and vaccines. In addition to reducing the number of disease areas the Company will focus on, key steps in this process include a realigned research and development footprint, with a planned exit from the
Company s Sandwich, United Kingdom (U.K.) site, subject to works council and union consultations, the planned shift of selected resources from the Company s Groton, Connecticut site to its Cambridge, Massachusetts site, and the planned
outsourcing of certain functions that do not drive competitive advantage for Pfizer. As a result of these actions, we expect significant reductions in our annual research and development expenses, which are reflected in our 2011 financial guidance
and 2012 financial targets, and we expect to incur significant costs, which are also reflected in our 2011 financial guidance and 2012 financial targets. For additional information, see the  Our Financial Guidance for 2011 ,  Our
Financial Targets for 2012  and  Costs and Expenses Cost-Reduction and Productivity Initiatives and Related Costs  sections of this Financial Review.      While a significant portion of R D is done internally, we continue to seek to expand our pipeline by entering into agreements with other companies to develop, license or acquire promising compounds,
technologies or capabilities. Collaboration, alliance and license agreements and acquisitions allow us to capitalize on these compounds to expand our pipeline of potential future products. In addition, collaborations and alliances allow us to share
risk and to access external scientific and technological expertise.      For information about our pending new drug applications (NDA) and
supplemental filings, see the  Revenues Product Developments-Biopharmaceutical  section of this Financial Review.       

Our acquisition strategy included the acquisition of Wyeth in 2009, which significantly increased our diversification. We continue to build on our broad
portfolio of businesses through various business development transactions announced in 2010. We believe the following transactions will complement our businesses as follows:      

Our acquisition of King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. complements our current portfolio of pain treatments in our Primary Care unit and provides potential growth
opportunities in our Established Products and Animal Health units.          

Our acquisition of FoldRx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is expected to strengthen our presence in the growing rare medical disease market, which complements our
Specialty Care unit.          

Our alliance with Biocon complements our Established Products and Emerging Markets unit by advancing our strategies in biosimilars and positions us competitively
in the diabetes market over time.          

Our investment in and commercial agreements with Laborat rio Teuto Brasileiro S.A. (Teuto) complement our Emerging Markets unit by giving us access to a
large network of independent distributors in Brazil and provide us the opportunity to commercialize Teuto s products outside of Brazil which may also provide opportunities for our Established Products unit.      

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       

Our pending acquisition of Ferrosan s consumer healthcare business will strengthen our presence in dietary supplements with a new set of brands and pipeline
products. Also, we believe that the acquisition will allow us to expand the marketing of Ferrosan s brands through Pfizer s global footprint and provide greater distribution and scale for certain Pfizer brands, such as Centrum    and Caltrate   , in Ferrosan s key markets.      
  For additional details related to these transactions and for other strategic investments see the  Our Business Development Initiatives 
section of this Financial Review.       

We continue to aggressively defend our patent rights against increasingly aggressive infringement whenever appropriate (see Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements  Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies ), and we will continue to support efforts that strengthen worldwide recognition of patent rights while taking necessary steps to ensure appropriate patient access. In addition, we
will continue to employ innovative approaches to prevent counterfeit pharmaceuticals from entering the supply chain and to achieve greater control over the distribution of our products, and we will continue to participate in the generics market for
our products, whenever appropriate, once they lose exclusivity.          

We remain focused on achieving an appropriate cost structure for the Company. For information regarding our cost-reduction initiatives, see the  Costs and
Expenses Cost-Reduction and Productivity Initiatives and Related Costs  section of this Financial Review.          

We continue to review the value-creation potential of all of our businesses, including the investments required to make them market leaders, their competitive
position globally and whether they can create the most value within or outside of Pfizer. We expect to complete this review during 2011.      
  Our strategy also includes directly enhancing shareholder value through dividends and share repurchases. In December 2010, our Board of Directors declared a
first-quarter 2011 dividend of $0.20 per share, an increase from the $0.18 per-share quarterly dividend paid during 2010. On February 1, 2011, we announced that the Board of Directors authorized a new $5 billion share-repurchase plan, which
increased our total current repurchase authorization to $9 billion. We expect to repurchase approximately $5 billion of our common stock during 2011, with the remaining authorized amount available in 2012 and beyond.   
   Our Business Development Initiatives       We are committed to
capitalizing on growth opportunities by advancing our own pipeline and maximizing the value of our in-line products, as well as through various forms of business development, which can include alliances, licenses, joint ventures, dispositions and
acquisitions. We view our business-development activity as an enabler of our strategies, and we seek to generate profitable revenue growth and enhance shareholder value by pursuing a disciplined, strategic and financial approach to evaluating
business-development opportunities. We are especially interested in opportunities in our Emerging Markets and Established Products units within our Biopharmaceutical segment and our high-priority therapeutic areas  immunology and
inflammation, oncology, cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, neuroscience and pain, and vaccines. Some of our most significant business-development transactions since 2008 are described below.   

On January 31, 2011, we completed our tender offer for all of the outstanding shares of common stock of King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (King). Upon completion
of the tender offer, we accepted for purchase all of the shares validly tendered and not validly withdrawn at a purchase price of $14.25 per share, net to the seller in cash, without interest thereon and subject to any required withholding taxes. As
a result, we paid approximately $3.3 billion in cash for approximately 92.5% of the outstanding shares of King common stock. Also, in accordance with the terms of the merger agreement, individuals designated by Pfizer now constitute a majority of
the King Board of Directors. We intend to complete the acquisition of King through a merger on or about February 28, 2011, without a vote of the remaining shareholders of King. As a result of the merger, each remaining share of King common
stock will be converted into the right to receive $14.25 per share, net in cash, without interest and less any required withholding taxes. Upon completion of the merger, we expect to pay approximately $300 million for the remaining shares of King,
which will then become a wholly owned subsidiary of Pfizer.         King s principal businesses
consist of a prescription pharmaceutical business focused on delivering new formulations of pain treatments designed to discourage common methods of misuse and abuse; the Meridian auto-injector business for emergency drug delivery, which develops
and manufactures the EpiPen   ; and an animal health business that offers a variety of feed-additive products for a wide range of species.   
  The assets acquired and liabilities assumed from King, the consideration paid to acquire King, and the results of King s operations are not
reflected in our consolidated financial statements as of and for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010.       

On February 7, 2011 we announced that we have entered into a definitive agreement to purchase the Ferrosan consumer healthcare business, which is
principally comprised of dietary supplement products, including multivitamins, probiotics and Omega-3 fish oils. Ferrosan markets its products in the Nordic region as well as Russia, Turkey and many countries in Central and Eastern Europe. The
transaction, which is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approval in certain jurisdictions, is expected to close during the second quarter of 2011.      

On November 8, 2010 we consummated our partnership to develop and commercialize generic medicines with Laborat rio Teuto Brasileiro S.A. (Teuto) a
leading generics company in Brazil. As part of the transaction, we acquired a 40 percent equity stake in Teuto, and the companies entered into a series of commercial agreements. The partnership is expected to enhance our position in Brazil, a key
emerging market, by providing access to Teuto s portfolio of products. Through this partnership, we expect to also have access to significant distribution networks in rural and suburban areas in Brazil and the opportunity to register and
commercialize Teuto s products in various markets outside of Brazil. Under the terms of our purchase agreement with Teuto, we made an upfront payment at the closing of approximately $230 million (subject to certain post-closing adjustments). In
addition, Teuto will be eligible to receive a      

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       

performance-based milestone payment from us in 2012 of up to approximately $200 million. We have an option to acquire the remaining 60 percent of Teuto s shares beginning in 2014, and
Teuto s shareholders have an option to sell their 60 percent stake to us beginning in 2015.         We are accounting for
our interest in Teuto as an equity method investment due to the significant influence we have over the operations of Teuto through our board representation, minority veto rights and 40% voting interest. Our investment in Teuto is reported as a
private equity investment in  Long-term investments and loans  in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2010. Our share of Teuto s income and expenses is recorded in  Other deductions   net . See also Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 3E. Other Significant Transactions and Events: Equity-Method Investments .       

On October 18, 2010, we entered into a strategic global agreement with Biocon, a biotechnology company based in India, for the worldwide commercialization
of Biocon s biosimilar versions of insulin and insulin analog products: Recombinant Human Insulin, Glargine, Aspart and Lispro. We will have exclusive rights to commercialize these products globally, with certain exceptions, including
co-exclusive rights for all of the products with Biocon in Germany, India and Malaysia. We will also have co-exclusive rights with existing Biocon licensees with respect to certain of these products, primarily in a number of developing markets.
Biocon will remain responsible for the clinical development, manufacture and supply of these biosimilar insulin products, as well as for regulatory activities to secure approval for these products in various markets. Biocon s Recombinant Human
Insulin formulations are approved in 27 countries in developing markets, and commercialized in 23 of those countries, while Biocon s Glargine has been launched in its first market, India. Under the terms of the strategic global agreement, we
made upfront payments totaling $200 million in the fourth quarter of 2010, of which $100 million was paid to Biocon (recorded in  Research and development expenses ) and $100 million was paid into an escrow account. The payment into the escrow
account will be released to Biocon based on achievement of certain milestones. Biocon also is eligible to receive additional development and regulatory milestone payments of up to $150 million and will receive additional payments based on our sales
of Biocon s four insulin biosimilar products across global markets.          

On October 6, 2010, we completed our acquisition of FoldRx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (FoldRx), a privately held drug discovery and clinical development company,
whose portfolio includes clinical and preclinical programs for investigational compounds to treat diseases caused by protein misfolding. FoldRx s lead product candidate, tafamidis meglumine, is in registration in both the U.S. and the EU as a
first-in-class oral therapy for the treatment of transthyretin amyloid polyneuropathy (ATTR-PN), a progressively fatal genetic neurodegenerative disease, for which liver transplant is the only treatment option currently available. The total
consideration for the acquisition was approximately $400 million, which consisted of an upfront payment to FoldRx s shareholders of about $200 million and contingent consideration with an estimated acquisition-date fair value of about $200
million. The contingent consideration consists of up to $455 million in additional payments that are contingent upon the attainment of future regulatory and commercial milestones. For additional information see Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements  Note 3D. Other Significant Transactions and Events: Acquisitions .          

On October 15, 2009 (the acquisition date), we acquired all of the outstanding equity of Wyeth in a cash-and-stock transaction, valued, based on the closing
market price of Pfizer common stock on the acquisition date, at $50.40 per share of Wyeth common stock, or a total of approximately $68 billion. In connection with our acquisition of Wyeth, we are required to divest certain animal health assets.
Certain of these assets were sold in 2009. In addition, in 2010, we completed the divestiture of certain animal health products and related assets in Australia, China, the EU, Switzerland and Mexico. It is possible that additional divestitures of
animal health assets may be required based on ongoing regulatory reviews in other jurisdictions worldwide, but they are not expected to be significant to our business. For additional information related to our acquisition of Wyeth, see the
 Acquisition of Wyeth  section of this Financial Review and see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 2. Acquisition of Wyeth.        

In April 2009, we announced that we entered into an agreement with GlaxoSmithKline plc (GSK) to create a new company focused solely on research, development and
commercialization of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) medicines. The transaction closed on October 30, 2009, and the new company, ViiV Healthcare Limited (ViiV), began operations on November 2, 2009. We and GSK have contributed certain
HIV-related product and pipeline assets to the new company. ViiV has a broad product portfolio of 11 marketed products, including innovative leading therapies such as Combivir and Kivexa products and Selzentry/Celsentri (maraviroc), and has a
pipeline of six innovative and targeted medicines, including four compounds in Phase 2 development. ViiV has contracted R D and manufacturing services directly from GSK and us and also has entered into a research alliance agreement with GSK and
us. Under this alliance, ViiV is investing in our and GSK s programs for discovery research and development into HIV medicines. ViiV has exclusive rights of first negotiation in relation to any new HIV-related medicines developed by either GSK
or us. We recorded a pre-tax gain of $482 million in connection with the formation of the new company and we currently hold a 15% equity interest and GSK holds an 85% equity interest. The equity interests will be adjusted in the event that specified
sales and regulatory milestones are achieved. Our equity interest in ViiV could vary from 9% to 30.5%, and GSK s equity interest could vary from 69.5% to 91%, depending upon the milestones achieved with respect to the original pipeline assets
contributed by us and by GSK to ViiV. Each company may also be entitled to preferential dividend payments to the extent that specific sales thresholds are met in respect of the marketed products and pipeline assets originally contributed. For
additional information on our investment in ViiV, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 3E. Other Significant Transactions and Events: Equity-Method Investments.       

In December 2008, we entered into an agreement with Auxilium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Auxilium) to develop, commercialize and supply Xiapex, a novel,
first-in-class biologic, for the treatment of Dupuytren s contracture and Peyronie s disease. Under the collaboration agreement with Auxilium, we will receive exclusive rights to commercialize Xiapex in the EU and 19 other European and
Eurasian countries. We submitted an application for Xiapex for the treatment of Dupuytren s contracture in the EU in December 2009. Under the agreement with Auxilium, we made an upfront payment of $75 million in 2008 and a $15 million milestone
payment in 2010, which is included in  Research and development expenses  in 2008. We also may make additional payments to Auxilium of up to approximately $400 million based upon regulatory and commercialization milestones, as well as
additional milestone payments based upon the successful commercialization of the product.      

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       

In the fourth quarter of 2008, we completed the acquisition of a number of animal health product lines from Schering-Plough Corporation (Schering-Plough) for
approximately $170 million.          

In October 2008, an agreement with Medivation, Inc. (Medivation) to develop and commercialize Latrepirdine (Dimebon), Medivation s investigational drug for
treatment of Alzheimer s disease and Huntington s disease went into effect. Latrepirdine currently is being evaluated in a Phase 3 trial in patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer s disease and in a Phase 3 trial in patients with
Huntington s disease. Under the collaboration agreement with Medivation, we made an upfront payment of $225 million, which is included in  Research and development expenses  in 2008. We also agreed to make additional payments of up to $500
million based upon development and regulatory milestones, as well as additional milestone payments based upon the successful commercialization of the product.      

In the second quarter of 2008, we acquired Encysive Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Encysive), a biopharmaceutical company whose main product was Thelin, through a tender
offer, for approximately $200 million, including transaction costs (see the  Product Developments-Biopharmaceutical  section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 3B. Other Significant
Transactions and Events: Asset Impairment Charges ). In addition, in the second quarter of 2008, we acquired Serenex, Inc. (Serenex), a privately held biotechnology company. In connection with these acquisitions, we recorded approximately $170
million in  Acquisition-related in-process research and development charges  and approximately $450 million in intangible assets in 2008.          

In the second quarter of 2008, we entered into an agreement with a subsidiary of Celldex for an exclusive worldwide license to CDX-110, an experimental
therapeutic vaccine in Phase 2 development for the treatment of glioblastoma multiforme, and exclusive rights to the use of EGFRvIII vaccines in other potential indications. Under the license and development agreement, an upfront payment was made in
2008. In September 2010, we terminated this agreement.          

In the first quarter of 2008, we acquired CovX, a privately held biotherapeutics company, and we acquired all the outstanding shares of Coley Pharmaceutical
Group, Inc., (Coley), a biopharmaceutical company. In connection with these and two smaller acquisitions related to Animal Health, we recorded approximately $440 million in  Acquisition-related in-process research and development charges  in
2008. In 2010 and 2009, we resolved certain contingencies and met certain milestones associated with CovX and recorded $125 million in 2010 and $68 million in 2009 of  Acquisition-related in-process research and development charges .
         Our Financial Guidance for 2011    
  We forecast 2011 revenues of $66.0 billion to $68.0 billion, Reported diluted earnings per common share (EPS) of $1.09 to $1.24 and Adjusted diluted EPS of $2.16 to
$2.26. The current exchange rates assumed in connection with the 2011 financial guidance are the mid-January 2011 exchange rates. For an understanding of Adjusted income, see the  Adjusted Income  section of this Financial Review.
     A reconciliation of 2011 Adjusted income and Adjusted diluted EPS guidance to 2011 Reported Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. and Reported diluted
EPS attributable to Pfizer Inc. common shareholders guidance follows:       

(a)    
    Assumes the completion of the acquisition of all remaining shares of King Pharmaceuticals, Inc., but does not assume the completion of any other
business-development transactions not completed as of December 31, 2010. Also excludes the potential effects of the resolution of litigation-related matters not substantially resolved as of December 31, 2010.      

(b)    
    For an understanding of Adjusted income, see the  Adjusted Income  section of this Financial Review.      

(c)    
    Amounts relate to actions to be taken in connection with our planned reduction in R D spending, including our realigned R D footprint. In our
reconciliation between  Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. , as reported under principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP), and Adjusted income, these amounts will be categorized as Certain Significant Items.
        For a description of the savings and costs associated with our integration of Wyeth and our new Research and Development productivity
initiative, please see  Our Financial Targets for 2012  below.      Our 2011 financial guidance is subject to a number of factors and
uncertainties as described in the  Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results ,  Our Operating Environment  and  Our Strategy  sections of this Financial Review and in Part I,
Item 1A,  Risk Factors , of our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K.       Our Financial Targets for 2012    
  At exchange rates in effect in mid-January 2011, we are targeting 2012 revenues of $63.0 billion to $65.5 billion, Reported diluted EPS between $1.58 and $1.73 and
Adjusted diluted EPS between $2.25 and $2.35. For an understanding of Adjusted income, see the  Adjusted Income  section of this Financial Review.   

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            A reconciliation of 2012 Adjusted income and Adjusted diluted EPS targets to 2012 Reported Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. and Reported diluted EPS attributable to Pfizer Inc. common shareholders targets
follows:       

(a)    
    Assumes the completion of the acquisition of all remaining shares of King Pharmaceuticals, Inc., but does not assume the completion of any other
business-development transactions not completed as of December 31, 2010. Also excludes the potential effects of the resolution of litigation-related matters not substantially resolved as of December 31, 2010.      

(b  )  
  
    Given the longer-term nature of these targets, they are subject to greater variability and less certainty as a result of potential material impacts related to
foreign exchange fluctuations, macroeconomic activity including inflation, and industry-specific challenges including changes to government healthcare policy, among others.      

(  c  )    
    For an understanding of Adjusted income, see the  Adjusted Income  section of this Financial Review.      

(d)    
    Amounts relate to actions to be taken in connection with our planned reduction in R D spending, including our realigned R D footprint. In our
reconciliation between  Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. , as reported under U.S. GAAP, and Adjusted income, these amounts will be categorized as Certain Significant Items.      
  We expect to generate cost reductions associated with the Wyeth acquisition, net of investments in the business, of approximately $4 billion to $5 billion, by the
end of 2012, at 2008 average foreign exchange rates, in comparison with the 2008 pro forma combined adjusted total costs of the legacy Pfizer and legacy Wyeth operations. (For an understanding of Adjusted income, see the  Adjusted Income 
section of this Financial Review.) We achieved more than $2 billion of these cost savings in 2010. For a description of the associated costs, expected to range from $2.0 billion to $4.0 billion during 2011 and 2012, see the  Costs and
Expenses Cost-Reduction and Productivity Initiatives and Related Costs  section of this Financial Review.      In addition, we expect to generate
significant reductions in our annual research and development expenses by the end of 2012. Specifically, we expect adjusted R D expenses to be approximately $8.0 billion to $8.5 billion in 2011 and approximately $6.5 billion to $7.0 billion in
2012 (for an understanding of Adjusted income, see the  Adjusted Income  section of this Financial Review). For a description of the associated costs, expected to range from $2.2 billion to $2.9 billion during 2011 and 2012, see the
 Costs and Expenses Cost-Reduction and Productivity Initiatives and Related Costs  section of this Financial Review.      For further
information on our research and development strategy, see also the  Our Strategy  section this Financial Review.      Our 2012 financial targets
are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties as described in the  Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results ,  Our Operating Environment  and  Our Strategy  sections of this
Financial Review and in Part I, Item 1A,  Risk Factors , of our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K.        Accounting Policies 
      We consider the following accounting policies important in understanding our operating results and financial condition. For additional accounting
policies, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   Note 1. Significant Accounting Policies.        Estimates and Assumptions
      In preparing the consolidated financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and disclosures, including
amounts recorded in connection with acquisitions, such as our acquisition of Wyeth on October 15, 2009. These estimates and underlying assumptions can impact all elements of our financial statements. For example, in the consolidated statements
of income, estimates are used when accounting for deductions from revenues (such as rebates, chargebacks, sales returns and sales allowances), determining cost of sales, allocating cost in the form of depreciation and amortization, and estimating
restructuring charges and the impact of contingencies. On the consolidated balance sheets, estimates are used in determining the valuation and recoverability of assets, such as accounts receivable, investments, inventories, fixed assets and
intangible assets (including goodwill), and estimates are used in determining the reported amounts of liabilities, such as taxes payable, benefit obligations, the impact of contingencies, rebates, chargebacks, sales returns and sales allowances, and
restructuring reserves, all of which also will impact the consolidated statements of income.      We regularly evaluate our estimates and assumptions, using
historical experience and other factors, including the economic environment. Our estimates often are based on complex judgments, probabilities and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable but that are inherently uncertain and, in some cases,
unpredictable.      As future events and their effects cannot be determined with precision, our estimates and assumptions may prove to be incomplete or
inaccurate, or unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that might cause us to change those estimates and assumptions. Market conditions, such as illiquid credit markets, volatile equity markets, dramatic fluctuations in foreign currency
rates and economic downturns, can increase the uncertainty already inherent in our estimates and assumptions. We adjust our estimates and assumptions when facts and circumstances indicate the need for change. Those changes will generally be
reflected in our financial statements on a prospective basis unless they are required to be treated retrospectively under the relevant accounting standard. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable and our assumptions supportable, it is
possible that other professionals, applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances, could develop and support a range of alternative   

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            
estimated amounts. We are also subject to other risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ from estimated amounts, such as changes in the healthcare environment, competition,
litigation, legislation and regulations. These and other risks and uncertainties are discussed throughout this Financial Review, particularly in the sections  Our Operating Environment ,  Our Strategy  and  Forward-Looking
Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results , and in Part I, Item 1A,  Risk Factors  of our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K.       Contingencies       We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer,
commercial, securities, environmental, and tax litigations and claims; government investigations; and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Except for income tax contingencies, we record
accruals for contingencies to the extent that we conclude their occurrence is probable and that the related liabilities are estimable, and we record anticipated recoveries under existing insurance contracts when assured of recovery. For tax matters,
we record accruals for income tax contingencies to the extent that we conclude that a tax position is not sustainable under a  more-likely-than-not  standard and we record our estimate of the potential tax benefits in one tax jurisdiction
that could result from the payment of income taxes in another tax jurisdiction when we conclude that the potential recovery is more likely than not (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   Note 7D. Taxes on Income: Tax
Contingencies ). We also evaluate tax matters that are sustainable under the  more-likely-than-not  standard in determining our accruals for income tax contingencies. We consider many factors in making these assessments. Because
litigation and other contingencies are inherently unpredictable and excessive verdicts do occur, these assessments can involve a series of complex judgments about future events and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions.   
   Acquisitions       Our consolidated financial statements include
an acquired business s operations after the completion of the acquisition. We account for acquired businesses using the acquisition method of accounting. The acquisition method of accounting for acquired businesses requires, among other things,
that most assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recognized at their fair values as of the acquisition date and that the fair value of acquired in-process research and development (IPR D) be recorded on the balance sheet. Also, transaction
costs are expensed as incurred. Any excess of the purchase price over the assigned values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. For acquisitions consummated prior to January 1, 2009, amounts allocated to acquired IPR D were
expensed at the date of acquisition. When we have acquired net assets that do not constitute a business under U.S. GAAP, no goodwill has been recognized.   
  Contingent consideration is included within the acquisition cost and is recognized at its fair value on acquisition date. A liability resulting from contingent
consideration is remeasured to fair value at each reporting date until the contingency is resolved. Changes in fair value are recognized in earnings.   
   Fair Value       We often are required to measure certain assets
and liabilities at fair value, either upon initial measurement or for subsequent accounting or reporting. For example, we use fair value extensively in the initial measurement of net assets acquired in a business combination and when accounting for
and reporting on certain financial instruments. We estimate fair value using an exit price approach, which requires, among other things, that we determine the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an
orderly market. The determination of an exit price is considered from the perspective of market participants, considering the highest and best use of assets and, for liabilities, assuming the risk of non-performance will be the same before and after
the transfer. Many, but not all, of our financial instruments are carried at fair value. In addition, as required under accounting rules for business combinations, most of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed from Wyeth on October 15,
2009 have been recorded at their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date (see the  Acquisition of Wyeth  section of this Financial Review for additional information). For additional information on the valuation approaches allowed
under U.S. GAAP to determine fair value, including a description of the inputs used, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   Note 1F. Significant Accounting Polices: Fair Value.  Also, for information on the use of fair value
for our financial instruments, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 9. Financial Instruments .       Revenues    
   Revenue Recognition  We record revenues from product sales when the goods are shipped and title passes to the customer. At the time of sale, we also
record estimates for a variety of sales deductions, such as rebates, discounts and incentives, and product returns. When we cannot reasonably estimate the amount of future product returns, we record revenues when the risk of product return has been
substantially eliminated. We record sales of certain of our vaccines to the U.S. government as part of the Pediatric Vaccine Stockpile program. These rules require that for fixed commitments made by the U.S. government we record revenues when risk
of ownership of the completed product has been passed to the U.S. government. There are no specific performance obligations associated with products sold under this program.       Deductions from Revenues  As is typical in the biopharmaceutical industry, our gross product sales are subject to a variety of deductions that generally are estimated and recorded in the same period that
the revenues are recognized and primarily represent rebates and discounts to government agencies, wholesalers, distributors and managed care organizations with respect to our biopharmaceutical products. These deductions represent estimates of the
related obligation and, as such, judgment and knowledge of market conditions and practice are required when estimating the impact of these sales deductions on gross sales for a reporting period.   
  Specifically,       

In the U.S., we record provisions for pharmaceutical Medicaid, Medicare and contract rebates based upon our experience ratio of rebates paid and actual
prescriptions written during prior quarters. We apply the experience ratio to the respective period s sales to determine the rebate accrual and related expense. This experience ratio is evaluated regularly to ensure that the historical trends
are as current as practicable. As appropriate, we will adjust the ratio to better match our current experience or our expected future experience. In assessing this ratio, we consider current contract terms, such as changes in formulary status and
discount rates. If our ratio is not indicative of future experience, our results could be materially affected.      

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       

Outside the U.S., the majority of our pharmaceutical rebates, discounts and price reductions are contractual or legislatively mandated, and our estimates are
based on actual invoiced sales within each period; both of these elements help to reduce the risk of variations in the estimation process. Some European countries base their rebates on the government s unbudgeted pharmaceutical spending, and we
use an estimated allocation factor (based on historical payments) and total revenues by country against our actual invoiced sales to project the expected level of reimbursement. We obtain third-party information that helps us monitor the adequacy of
these accruals. If our estimates are not indicative of actual unbudgeted spending, our results could be materially affected.          

Provisions for pharmaceutical chargebacks (primarily reimbursements to wholesalers for honoring contracted prices to third parties) closely approximate actual as
we settle these deductions generally within two to five weeks of incurring the liability.          

Provisions for pharmaceutical returns are based on a calculation in each market that incorporates the following, as appropriate: local returns policies and
practices; returns as a percentage of sales; an understanding of the reasons for past returns; estimated shelf life by product; and an estimate of the amount of time between shipment and return or lag time; and any other factors that could impact
the estimate of future returns, such as loss of exclusivity, product recalls or a changing competitive environment. In most markets, returned products are destroyed, and customers are refunded the sales price in the form of a credit.

We record sales incentives as a reduction of revenues at the time the related revenues are recorded or when the incentive is offered, whichever is later. We
estimate the cost of our sales incentives based on our historical experience with similar incentives programs.         Historically, our
adjustments to actual have not been material; on a quarterly basis, they generally have been less than 1.0% of Biopharmaceutical net sales and can result in a net increase to income or a net decrease to income. The sensitivity of our estimates can
vary by program, type of customer and geographic location. However, estimates associated with U.S. Medicaid and contract rebates are most at-risk for material adjustment because of the extensive time delay between the recording of the accrual and
its ultimate settlement, an interval that can range up to one year. Because of this time lag, in any given quarter, our adjustments to actual can incorporate revisions of several prior quarters.   
   Collaborative Arrangements   Payments to and from our collaboration partners are presented in the statements of income based on the nature of the
arrangement (including its contractual terms), the nature of the payments and applicable accounting guidance. Under co-promotion agreements, we record the amounts received from our partners as alliance revenues, a component of  Revenues,  when
our co-promotion partners are the principal in the transaction and we receive a share of their net sales or profits. Alliance revenues are recorded when our co-promotion partners ship the product and title passes to their customers and the related
expenses for selling and marketing these products are included in  Selling, informational and administrative expenses.  In collaborative arrangements where we manufacture a product for our partner, we record revenues when our partner sells the
product and title passes to its customer. All royalty payments to collaboration partners are recorded as part of  Cost of sales .       Pension and
Postretirement Benefit Plans       We provide defined benefit pension plans for the majority of our employees worldwide. In the U.S., we have both
qualified and supplemental (non-qualified) defined benefit plans, as well as other postretirement benefit plans, consisting primarily of healthcare and life insurance for retirees (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 13.
Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans ).      The accounting for benefit plans is highly dependent on actuarial
estimates, assumptions and calculations, which result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties (see the  Accounting Policies  Estimates and Assumptions  section of this Financial Review). The
assumptions and actuarial estimates required to estimate the employee benefit obligations for the defined benefit and postretirement plans may include the discount rate; expected salary increases; certain employee-related factors, such as turnover,
retirement age and mortality (life expectancy); expected return on assets; and healthcare cost trend rates. Our assumptions reflect our historical experiences and our best judgment regarding future expectations that have been deemed reasonable by
management. The judgments made in determining the costs of our benefit plans can materially impact our results of operations.      The following table shows
the expected versus actual rate of return on plan assets and the discount rate used to determine the benefit obligations for the U.S. qualified pension plans:       
    As a result of the global financial market downturn during 2008, the fair value of the assets held in our pension plans decreased by
approximately 21% in 2008 and we estimate those losses will be amortized over a 10-year period. We maintained our expected long-term return on plan assets of 8.5% in 2010 for our U.S. pension plans, which impacts net periodic benefit cost. In early
2009, in order to reduce the volatility of our plan funded status and the probability of future contribution requirements, we shifted from an explicit target asset allocation to asset allocation ranges. However, we did not significantly change the
asset allocation during 2009 and the allocation was largely consistent with that of 2008. No further changes to the strategic asset allocation were made in 2010 and, therefore, we maintained the 8.5% expected long-term rate of return on assets in
2010.      The assumption for the expected return on assets for our U.S. and international plans reflects our actual historical return experience and our
long-term assessment of forward-looking return expectations by asset classes, which is used to develop a weighted-average expected return based on the implementation of our targeted asset allocation in our respective plans. The expected return for
our U.S. plans and the majority of our international plans is applied to the fair market value of plan assets at each year end.   

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            
Holding all other assumptions constant, the effect of a 0.5 percentage-point decline in the return-on-assets assumption would increase our 2011 U.S. qualified pension plans  pre-tax expense
by approximately $49 million.      The discount rate used in calculating our U.S. defined benefit plan obligations as of December 31, 2010, is 5.9%,
which represents a 0.4 percentage-point decrease from our December 31, 2009, rate of 6.3%. The discount rate for our U.S. defined benefit plans is based on a bond model constructed from a portfolio of high-quality corporate bonds rated AA or
better for which the timing and amount of cash flows approximate the estimated payouts of the plans. For our international plans, the discount rates are set by benchmarking against investment grade corporate bonds rated AA or better, including where
there is sufficient data, a yield curve approach. Holding all other assumptions constant, the effect of a 0.1 percentage-point decrease in the discount rate assumption would increase our 2011 U.S. qualified pension plans  pre-tax expense by
approximately $27 million and increase the U.S. qualified pension plans  projected benefit obligations as of December 31, 2010, by approximately $221 million.       Asset Impairment Reviews Long-Lived Assets       We review all of our long-lived assets, including goodwill and
other intangible assets, for impairment indicators throughout the year and we perform detailed impairment testing for goodwill and indefinite-lived assets annually and for all other long-lived assets whenever impairment indicators are present. When
necessary, we record charges for impairments of long-lived assets for the amount by which the fair value is less than the carrying value of these assets.   
  Examples of events or circumstances that may be indicative of impairment include:       

A significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of the asset. For example, a successful challenge of our
patent rights likely would result in generic competition earlier than expected.          

A significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used. For example, restrictions imposed by the FDA or other regulatory authorities
could affect our ability to manufacture or sell a product.          

A projection or forecast that demonstrates losses or reduced profits associated with an asset. This could result, for example, from a change in a government
reimbursement program that results in an inability to sustain projected product revenues and profitability. This also could result from the introduction of a competitor s product that results in a significant loss of market share or the
inability to achieve the previously projected revenue growth, as well as the lack of acceptance of a product by patients, physicians and payers. For IPR D projects, this could result from, among other things, a change in outlook based on
clinical trial data, a delay in the projected launch date or additional expenditures to commercialize the product.         When determining
fair value, any single estimate of fair value results from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and relies heavily on estimates and assumptions (see the  Accounting Policies Estimates and Assumptions 
section of this Financial Review). Although we believe that our judgments and assumptions are reasonable, the judgments made in determining an estimate of fair value can materially impact our results of operations.   
  Our impairment review process is described in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 1L. Significant Accounting Policies: Amortization of
Intangible Assets, Depreciation and Certain Long-Lived Assets  and, for deferred tax assets, in  Note 1P. Significant Accounting Policies: Deferred Tax Assets and Income Tax Contingencies.    
   Intangible Assets Other than Goodwill       As a result of our
intangible asset impairment review work, described in detail below, we recognized a number of impairments of intangible assets other than goodwill.   
  During 2010, we recorded the following intangible asset impairment charges in  Other deductions net:    

$1.8 billion related to intangible assets acquired from Wyeth primarily as a result of our updated estimate of the fair value of these assets as compared with
their assigned fair values as of the Wyeth acquisition date, October 15, 2009. Our updated forecasts reflected, among other things, the following: for IPR D assets, the impact of changes to the development programs, the projected
development and regulatory timeframes and the risk associated with these assets; for Brand assets, the current competitive environment and planned investment support; and, for Developed Technology Rights, an increased competitive environment.

Approximately $300 million related to our product Thelin as a result of our decisions to voluntarily withdraw Thelin in regions where it is approved and to
discontinue clinical studies worldwide.         Of these amounts, about $1.4 billion related to our Biopharmaceutical segment and about $700
million related to our Diversified segment.      During 2009, we recorded $417 million in asset impairment charges primarily associated with certain
materials used in our research and development activities in our Biopharmaceutical segment that were no longer considered recoverable.       Accounting
Policy and Specific Procedures    

For finite-lived intangible assets, such as Developed Technology Rights, whenever impairment indicators are present, we perform a review for impairment. We
calculate the undiscounted value of the projected cash flows associated with the asset, or asset group, and compare this estimated amount to the carrying amount. If the carrying amount is found to be greater, we record an impairment loss for the
excess of book value over fair value. In addition, in all cases of an impairment review, we re-evaluate the remaining useful lives of the assets and modify them, as appropriate.      

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       

For indefinite-lived intangible assets, such as Brands and IPR D assets, each year and whenever impairment indicators are present, we determine the fair
value of the asset and record an impairment loss for the excess of book value over fair value, if any. In addition, in all cases of an impairment review other than for IPR D assets, we re-evaluate whether continuing to characterize the asset as
indefinite-lived is appropriate.         When we are required to determine the fair value of intangible assets other than goodwill, we use an
income approach, specifically the multi-period excess earnings method, also known as the discounted cash flow method. We start with a forecast of all the expected net cash flows associated with the asset, which includes the application of a
terminal value for indefinite-lived assets, and then we apply an asset-specific discount rate to arrive at a net present value amount. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in this approach include: the amount and timing of
the projected net cash flows, which includes the expected impact of competitive, legal and/or regulatory forces on the projections and the impact of technological risk associated with in-process research and development assets as well as the
selection of a long-term growth rate; the discount rate, which seeks to reflect the various risks inherent in the projected cash flows; and the tax rate, which seeks to incorporate the geographic diversity of the projected cash flows.   
   Future Impairment Risks       While all intangible assets other
than goodwill can confront events and circumstances that can lead to impairment, in general, intangible assets other than goodwill that are most at risk of impairment include in-process research and development assets ($3.4 billion as of
December 31, 2010) and newly acquired or recently impaired indefinite-lived assets ($7.4 billion as of December 31, 2010). In-process research and development assets are high-risk assets, as research and development is an inherently risky
activity. Newly acquired and recently impaired indefinite-lived assets are more vulnerable to impairment as the assets are recorded at fair value and are then subsequently measured at the lower of fair value or carrying value at the end of each
reporting period. As such, immediately after acquisition or impairment, even small declines in the outlook for these products can negatively impact our ability to recover the carrying value and can result in an impairment loss.   
  One of our indefinite-lived Biopharmaceutical assets, Xanax, has a fair value that is only marginally higher than its $1.4 billion carrying value and is therefore
at risk for future impairment. Any negative change in the undiscounted cash flows, discount rate and/or tax rate could result in an impairment charge. Xanax, which was launched in the mid 1980 s and acquired in 2003, must continue to remain
competitive against its generic challengers or the associated asset may become impaired. We will continue to closely monitor this asset.       Goodwill
      As a result of our goodwill impairment review work, described in detail below, none of our goodwill is impaired as of December 31, 2010, and we
do not believe the risk of impairment is significant at this time.      Accounting Policy and Specific Procedures    
  Annually and whenever impairment indicators are present, we calculate the fair value of each reporting unit and compare the fair value to its book value. If the
carrying amount is found to be greater, we then determine the implied fair value of goodwill by subtracting the fair value of all the identifiable net assets other than goodwill from the fair value of the reporting unit and record an impairment loss
for the excess, if any, of book value of goodwill over the implied fair value.      In determining the fair value of a reporting unit, as appropriate for the
individual reporting unit, we may use the market approach, the income approach or a weighted-average combination of both approaches.       

The market approach is a historical approach to estimating fair value and relies primarily on external information. Within the market approach are two methods
that we may use:          

Guideline public company method this method employs market multiples derived from market prices of stocks of companies that are engaged in the same or
similar lines of business and that are actively traded on a free and open market and the application of the identified multiples to the corresponding measure of our reporting unit s financial performance.      

Guideline transaction method this method relies on pricing multiples derived from transactions of significant interests in companies engaged in the same or
similar lines of business and the application of the identified multiples to the corresponding measure of our reporting unit s financial performance.         The market approach is only appropriate when the available external information is robust and deemed to be a reliable proxy for the specific reporting unit being valued; however, these assessments may prove to be
incomplete or inaccurate. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in this approach include: the selection of appropriate guideline companies and transactions and the determination of applicable premiums and discounts based on
any differences in ownership percentages, ownership rights, business ownership forms or marketability between the reporting unit and the guideline companies and transactions.   

The income approach is a forward-looking approach to estimating fair value and relies primarily on internal forecasts. Within the income approach, the method
that we use is the discounted cash flow method. We start with a forecast of all the expected net cash flows associated with the reporting unit, which includes the application of a terminal value, and then we apply a reporting unit-specific discount
rate to arrive at a net present value amount. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in this approach include: the amount and timing of the projected net cash flows, which includes the expected impact of technological risk
and competitive, legal and/or regulatory forces on the projections as well as the selection of a long-term growth rate; the discount rate, which seeks to reflect the various risks inherent in the projected cash flows; and the tax rate, which seeks
to incorporate the geographic diversity of the projected cash flows.      

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            Specifically, our 2010 goodwill impairment assessment involved the following:       

To estimate the fair value of our Biopharmaceutical reporting unit, we used a combination of approaches and methods. We used the income approach and the market
approach, which were weighted 75% and 25% respectively, in our analysis. We relied more on the income approach due to the size of our Biopharmaceutical reporting unit within the pharmaceutical market. For the income approach, we used the discounted
cash flow method and for the market approach, we used the guideline public company method.          

To estimate the fair value of our Consumer Healthcare reporting unit, we used a combination of approaches and methods. We used the income approach and the market
approach, which were weighted equally in our analysis. We weighted them equally as we have equal confidence in the appropriateness of the approaches for our Consumer Healthcare reporting unit. For the income approach, we used the discounted cash
flow method and for the market approach, we used both the guideline public company method and the guideline transaction method, which were weighted equally to arrive at our market approach value.      

To estimate the fair value of our Nutrition, Animal Health and Capsugel reporting units, we used the income approach, relying exclusively on the discounted cash
flow method.          

As a test of the reasonableness of our valuation results, we also performed sensitivity analyses and reconciled the aggregate fair value of our reporting units
to an estimate of the market value of our company.          Future Impairment Risks    
  While all reporting units can confront events and circumstances that can lead to impairment, in general, reporting units that are most at risk of goodwill
impairment are reporting units that are newly acquired, such as our Consumer Healthcare and Nutrition reporting units, which were acquired as part of our acquisition of Wyeth in 2009. Because we did not have a Consumer Healthcare or Nutrition
reporting unit immediately prior to the acquisition, the assets and liabilities of both reporting units, in their entirety, were recorded at their fair value as of the acquisition date. As such, immediately after the acquisition date, even small
declines in the outlook for these reporting units can negatively impact our ability to recover the associated goodwill. Also, the asset impairments in these reporting units were carefully considered during our goodwill impairment review process, as
part of understanding the future expectations for these reporting units. At the end of 2010,       

For our Consumer Healthcare reporting unit, we estimate that it would take a significant negative change in the undiscounted cash flows, the discount rate and/or
the market multiples in the consumer industry for the Consumer Healthcare reporting unit goodwill to be impaired. Our Consumer Healthcare reporting unit performance and consumer healthcare industry market multiples are highly correlated with the
overall economy and our specific performance is also dependent on our and our competitors  innovation and marketing effectiveness, and on regulatory developments affecting claims, formulations and ingredients of our
products.         

For our Nutrition reporting unit, we estimate that it would take a significant negative change in the undiscounted cash flows and/or the discount rate for the
Nutrition reporting unit goodwill to be impaired. Our Nutrition reporting unit performance is dependent on our ability to organically expand our share within a steady growing market.     
  For all of our reporting units, there are a number of future events and factors that may impact future results and that could potentially have an impact on the
outcome of subsequent goodwill impairment testing. For a list of these factors, see the  Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results  section of this Financial Review.   
    Acquisition of Wyeth         Description of Transaction
      On October 15, 2009 (the acquisition date), we acquired all of the outstanding equity of Wyeth in a cash-and-stock transaction, valued at the
acquisition date at approximately $68 billion. In 2009, we recorded provisional amounts for the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, which were adjusted in the first year after the acquisition date (measurement period adjustments). See Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements   Note 2. Acquisition of Wyeth .      Wyeth s core business was the discovery, development, manufacture
and sale of prescription pharmaceutical products, including vaccines, for humans. Other operations of Wyeth included the discovery, development, manufacture and sale of consumer healthcare products (over-the-counter products), nutritionals and
animal health products. Our acquisition of Wyeth has made us a more diversified healthcare company, with product offerings in human, animal, and consumer health, including vaccines, biologics, small molecules and nutrition across developed and
emerging markets. The acquisition of Wyeth also added to our pipeline of biopharmaceutical development projects endeavoring to develop medicines to help patients in critical areas, including oncology, pain, inflammation, Alzheimer s disease,
psychoses and diabetes.       Recording of Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed       The transaction has been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting which requires, among other things, that most assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recognized at their fair values as of the
acquisition date and that the fair value of acquired IPR D be recorded on the balance sheet.      While most assets and liabilities were measured at fair
value, a single estimate of fair value results from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and relies heavily on estimates and assumptions. Our judgments used to determine the estimated fair value assigned to each class
of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially impact our results of operations.   

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            The table below summarizes the amounts recognized for assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date, as well as adjustments made in the first year after the acquisition date to the amounts
initially recorded in 2009 (measurement period adjustments). The measurement period adjustments primarily affected intangible assets, including IPR D assets, inventories and the net tax accounts. The adjustments for identifiable intangible
assets consist of adjustments recorded to reflect changes in the estimated fair values of certain intangibles (IPR D, Brands and Developed Technology Rights), and the related impacts on the associated inventories and deferred tax accounts. These
adjustments were made largely to better reflect market participant assumptions about facts and circumstances existing as of the acquisition date, such as the following: for IPR D assets, long-term expectations as to patient population, general
market potential, and the risk associated with these assets; for Brand assets, consensus views of the competitive environment, as well as market potential; and, for Developed Technology Rights, expected revenues after loss of exclusivity. The
measurement period adjustments did not result from intervening events subsequent to the acquisition date.      The measurement period adjustments did not
have a significant impact on our earnings, balance sheets or cash flows in any period and, therefore, we have not retrospectively adjusted our financial statements. In addition, neither the measurement period adjustments nor the underlying
scientific and market data leading to the changes impacted our financial guidance for 2011 or our financial targets for 2012 (see the  Our Financial Guidance for 2011  and  Our Financial Targets for 2012  sections of this
Financial Review).      The following table summarizes the recording of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date:   

(b)   
    Includes cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivable, other current assets, assets held for sale, accounts payable and other current
liabilities.      

(c)   
    As of the acquisition date, included in  Taxes and other current assets  ($1.2 billion),  Taxes and other noncurrent assets  ($2.8 billion),  Income
taxes payable  ($500 million), O ther current liabilities  ($11.1 billion),  Noncurrent deferred tax liabilities  ($14.0 billion) and  Other taxes payable  ($2.1 billion, including accrued interest of $300 million).

(d)   
    Goodwill recognized as of the acquisition date totaled $19,340 million for our Biopharmaceutical segment and $2,777 million for our Diversified segment.
        Below is a summary of the methodologies and significant assumptions used in estimating the fair value of certain classes of assets and
liabilities of Wyeth, as well as other information about recorded amounts.       

Financial instruments  Our valuation approach was consistent with our valuation methodologies used for our legacy Pfizer financial instruments. For
additional information on the valuation of our financial instruments, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   Note 9. Financial Instruments .      

Inventories  The fair value of acquired inventory was determined as follows:      

Finished goods  Estimated selling price, less an estimate of costs to be incurred to sell the inventory, and an estimate of a reasonable profit
allowance for that selling effort.          

Work in process  Estimated selling price of an equivalent finished good, less an estimate of costs to be incurred to complete the work-in-process
inventory, an estimate of costs to be incurred to sell the inventory and an estimate of a reasonable profit allowance for those manufacturing and selling efforts.      

Raw materials and supplies  Estimated cost to replace the raw materials and supplies.      

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            The amounts recorded for the major components of acquired inventories are as follows:        

(a)   
    As of the acquisition date, includes pre-launch inventory associated with Prevnar/Prevenar 13 Infant, which did not launch until 2010. Prevnar/ Prevenar 13
Infant was approved by the EU member states in December 2009 and in the U.S. in February 2010.         The fair value of
inventory is recognized in our results of operations as the inventory is sold. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the estimate of the fair value of inventory include stage of completion, costs to complete, costs to
dispose and selling price. All of these judgments and estimates can materially impact our results of operations.       

Property, Plant and Equipment  The fair value of acquired property, plant and equipment is determined using a variety of valuation approaches,
depending on the nature of the asset and the quality of available information. If multiple approaches are used for a single asset or a group of assets, those approaches are compared and reconciled to arrive at a single estimate of fair value. The
fair value of acquired property, plant and equipment was primarily determined as follows:          

Land   Market, a sales comparison approach that measures value of an asset through an analysis of sales and offerings of comparable property.

Buildings  Replacement cost, an approach that measures the value of an asset by estimating the cost to acquire or construct comparable assets. For
buildings that are not highly specialized or that could be income producing if leased to a third party, we also considered market and income factors.          

Machinery and Equipment  Replacement cost.          

Furniture and Fixtures  Replacement cost.          

Construction in Progress  Replacement cost, generally assumed to equal historical book value.      
  The amounts recorded for the major components of acquired property, plant and equipment are as follows:   

The fair value of property, plant and equipment
will be recognized in our results of operations over the expected useful life of the individual depreciable assets.      Some of the more
significant inputs, estimates and assumptions inherent in the estimate of the fair value of property, plant and equipment include the nature, age, condition or location of the land, buildings, machinery and equipment, furniture and fixtures, and
construction in progress, as applicable, as well as the estimate of market and replacement cost and the determination of the appropriate valuation premise, in-use or in-exchange. The in-use valuation premise assesses the value of an asset when used
in combination with other assets (for example, on an installed basis), while the in-exchange valuation assesses the value of an asset on a stand alone basis. All of these judgments and estimates can materially impact our results of operations.

Identifiable Intangible Assets  The fair value of acquired identifiable intangible assets generally is determined using an income approach. This
method starts with a forecast of all of the expected future net cash flows associated with the asset and then involves adjusting the forecast to present value by applying an appropriate discount rate that reflects the risk factors associated with
the cash flow streams.      

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            The amounts recorded for the major components of acquired identifiable intangible assets are as follows:       

(a)   
    Includes $9.9 billion associated with Prevnar/Prevenar 13 Infant. Prevenar 13 Infant was approved by the EU member states in December 2009 and as a result, was
reclassified to Developed technology rights  finite-lived. Prevnar 13 Infant was approved in the U.S. in February 2010.          

Developed Technology Rights  Developed technology rights include the right to develop, use, market, sell and/or offer for sale a product, compound or
other intellectual property that we have acquired with respect to products, compounds and/or processes that have been completed. Developed Technology Rights acquired include Enbrel, and to a lesser extent, Premarin and Effexor, among others. As of
the acquisition date, Prevnar/Prevenar 13 Infant was classified in IPR D, but received regulatory approval in a major market in December 2009. As a result, we reclassified the asset from IPR D to Developed Technology Rights finite-lived
and began to amortize the asset.          

Brands  Brands generally represent the value associated with tradenames and know-how, as the products themselves usually no longer receive patent
protection. Brands acquired include Advil, Centrum, Robitussin, Caltrate, ChapStick, Preparation H, 1st Age Nutrition, 2nd Age Nutrition and 3rd Age Nutrition, among others.      

In-Process Research and Development  IPR D intangible assets represent the right to develop, use, sell and/or offer for sale a compound or other
intellectual property that we have acquired with respect to compounds and/or processes that have not been completed or approved. These assets are required to be classified as indefinite-lived assets until the successful completion or abandonment of
the associated research and development efforts. Accordingly, during the development period after the date of acquisition, these assets will not be amortized until approval is obtained in a major market, typically either the U.S. or the EU, or in a
series of other countries, subject to certain specified conditions and management judgment. At that time, we will determine the useful life of the asset, reclassify the asset out of IPR D and begin amortization. The useful life of an amortizing
asset generally is determined by identifying the period in which substantially all of the cash flows are expected to be generated.          

If the associated research and development effort is abandoned, the related IPR D assets likely will be written off, and we will record an impairment loss in our consolidated
statements of income.         

As of the acquisition date, IPR D included Prevnar/Prevenar 13 Infant (see below), and to a lesser extent, Prevnar/Prevenar 13 Adult, and Neratinib (treatment of cancer),
among others (see the  Analysis of Consolidated Statements of Income: Product Developments  Biopharmaceutical: New Drug Candidates in Late-Stage Development  section of this Financial Review). In December 2009, Prevnar/Prevenar
13 Infant received regulatory approval in a major market and, as a result, we reclassified the asset from IPR D to Developed Technology Rights and began to amortize the asset.     
  The fair value of finite-lived identifiable intangible assets will be recognized in our results of operations over the expected useful life of the individual
assets.      Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the estimate of the fair value of identifiable intangible assets include all
assumptions associated with forecasting product profitability from the perspective of a market participant.      Specifically:   

Revenue We use historical, forecast, industry or other sources of market data, including estimates of the number of units to be sold, selling prices, market
penetration, market share and year-over-year growth rates over the product s life cycle.          

Cost of sales, Sales and marketing expenses, General and administrative expenses We use historical, forecast, industry or other sources of market data.

R D expenses In the case of approved products, we estimate the appropriate level of ongoing R D support, and for unapproved compounds, we estimate
the amount and timing of costs to develop the R D into viable products.          

Estimated life of the asset We assess the asset s life cycle and the competitive trends impacting the asset, including consideration of any technical,
legal, regulatory or economic barriers to entry, as well as expected changes in standards of practice for indications addressed by the asset.          

Inherent risk We use a discount rate that is based on the weighted-average cost of capital with an additional premium to reflect the risks associated with
the specific intangible asset, such as country risks (political, inflation, currency and property risks) and commercial risks. In addition, for unapproved assets, an additional risk factor is added for the risk of technical and regulatory success,
called the probability of technical and regulatory success (PTRS).      

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            The discount rates used in the intangible asset valuations ranged from 9% to 17%, and the estimated cash flows were projected over periods extending up to 20 years or more. For IPR D assets, the PTRS rates
ranged from 4% to 90%. Within this broad range, we recorded approximately $600 million of assets with a PTRS of up to 25%; approximately $500 million of assets with a PTRS of 26% to 50%; approximately $500 million of assets with a PTRS of 51% to
75%; and approximately $12.2 billion of assets with a PTRS above 75% (which includes Prevnar/Prevenar 13 for Infant and Adult). All of these judgments and estimates can materially impact our results of operations.   
  For IPR D assets, the risk of failure has been factored into the fair value measure and there can be no certainty that these assets ultimately will yield a
successful product. The nature of the biopharmaceutical business is high-risk and requires that we invest in a large number of projects as a mechanism for achieving a successful portfolio of approved products. As such, it is likely that many of the
IPR D assets will become impaired and be written off at some time in the future (also see the  Accounting Policies Asset Impairment Reviews Long-Lived Assets  section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements  Note   3B. Other Significant Transactions and Events: Asset Impairment Charges ).       

Other Matters, including Contingencies   In the ordinary course of business, Wyeth incurred liabilities for environmental, legal and tax matters
as well as guarantees/indemnifications. These matters may have included contingencies. Generally, contingencies are required to be measured at fair value, if the acquisition-date fair value of the asset or liability arising from a contingency can be
determined. If the acquisition-date fair value of the asset or liability cannot be determined, the asset or liability would be recognized at the acquisition date if both of the following criteria were met: (i) it is probable that an asset
existed or that a liability had been incurred at the acquisition date and (ii) the amount of the asset or liability can be reasonably estimated.          

Environmental Matters  In the ordinary course of business, Wyeth incurred liabilities for environmental matters such as remediation work, asset
retirement obligations, and environmental guarantees and indemnifications. Virtually all liabilities for environmental matters, including contingencies, were measured at fair value and approximated $570 million as of the acquisition date.

Legal Matters  Wyeth was involved in various legal proceedings, including product liability, patent, commercial, environmental, antitrust matters and
government investigations of a nature considered normal to its business, (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies ). Due to the uncertainty of the variables and assumptions involved in
assessing the possible outcomes of events related to these items, an estimate of fair value was not determinable. As such, these contingencies were measured under the same  probable and estimable  standard previously used by Wyeth.
Liabilities for legal contingencies approximated $1.3 billion as of the acquisition date, which included the recording of additional adjustments of approximately $260 million for legal matters that we intended to resolve in a manner different from
what Wyeth had planned or intended.          

Tax Matters   In the ordinary course of business, Wyeth incurred liabilities for income taxes .  Income taxes are exceptions to both the
recognition and fair value measurement principles associated with the accounting for business combinations. Liabilities for income tax continue to be measured under the benefit recognition model as previously used by Wyeth (see Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements   Note 1P. Significant Accounting Policies: Deferred Tax Assets and Income Tax Contingencies ). Net liabilities for income taxes approximated $23.7 billion as of the acquisition date, which included
$1.8 billion for uncertain tax positions (not including $300 million of accrued interest). The net tax liability included the recording of additional adjustments of approximately $14.4 billion for the tax impact of fair value adjustments and $10.5
billion for income tax matters that we intended to resolve in a manner different from what Wyeth had planned or intended. For example, because we planned to repatriate certain overseas funds, we provided deferred taxes on Wyeth s unremitted
earnings, as well as on certain book/tax basis differentials related to investments in certain foreign subsidiaries for which no taxes had been previously provided by Wyeth as it was Wyeth s intention to permanently reinvest those earnings and
investments.      

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       

Percentages  
  may reflect rounding adjustments.     

*  
  Calculation not meaningful.          Revenues     
  Total revenues of $67.8 billion in 2010 increased by approximately $17.8 billion compared to 2009, primarily due to:   

the inclusion of revenues from legacy Wyeth products of $18.1 billion; and      

the favorable impact of foreign exchange, which increased revenues by approximately $1.1 billion,      
  partially offset by:       

the net revenue decrease from legacy Pfizer products of $1.4 billion resulting primarily from continuing generic competition and the loss of exclusivity on
certain products.         Total revenues of $50.0 billion in 2009 increased by approximately $1.7 billion compared to 2008, primarily due to:

the inclusion of revenues from legacy Wyeth products of $3.3 billion; and      

net revenue growth of legacy Pfizer products of $247 million,         partially offset by:       

the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, which decreased revenues by approximately $1.8 billion in 2009.      
  In 2010, Lipitor, Enbrel, Lyrica, Prevnar/Prevenar 13 and Celebrex each delivered at least $2 billion in revenues, while Viagra, Xalatan/Xalacom, Effexor (which
lost exclusivity in the U.S. in July 2010), Norvasc, Prevnar/Prevenar (7-valent), Zyvox, Sutent, the Premarin family, Geodon/Zeldox and Detrol/Detrol LA each surpassed $1 billion in revenues.      In 2009, Lipitor, Lyrica and Celebrex each delivered at least $2 billion in revenues, while Norvasc, Viagra, Xalatan/Xalacom, Detrol/Detrol LA, Zyvox and Geodon/Zeldox each surpassed $1 billion in revenues. In
2009, we did not record more than $1 billion in revenues for any individual legacy Wyeth product since the Wyeth acquisition date of October 15, 2009.      In 2008, Lipitor, Norvasc (which lost U.S. exclusivity in March 2007), Lyrica and Celebrex each delivered at least $2 billion in revenues, while Geodon/Zeldox, Zyvox, Viagra, Detrol/Detrol LA and Xalatan/Xalacom
each surpassed $1 billion in revenues.      Revenues exceeded $500 million in each of 18 countries outside the U.S. in 2010, in each of 13 countries outside
the U.S. in 2009 and in each of 14 countries outside the U.S. in 2008. The increase in the number of countries outside the U.S. in which revenues exceeded $500 million in 2010 was due to the inclusion of revenues from legacy Wyeth products for the
full year in 2010. The decrease in the number of countries outside the U.S. in which revenues exceeded $500 million in 2009 was due to the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange. The U.S. was the only country to contribute more than 10% of total
revenues in each year.   

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            Our policy relating to the supply of pharmaceutical inventory at domestic wholesalers, and in major international markets, is to generally maintain stocking levels under one month on average and to keep monthly
levels consistent from year to year based on patterns of utilization. We historically have been able to closely monitor these customer stocking levels by purchasing information from our customers directly or by obtaining other third-party
information. We believe our data sources to be directionally reliable but cannot verify their accuracy. Further, as we do not control this third-party data, we cannot be assured of continuing access. Unusual buying patterns and utilization are
promptly investigated.      As is typical in the pharmaceutical industry, our gross product sales are subject to a variety of deductions, that are generally
estimated and recorded in the same period that the revenues are recognized, and primarily represent rebates and discounts to government agencies, wholesalers, distributors and managed care organizations for our pharmaceutical products. These
deductions represent estimates of the related obligations and, as such, judgment and knowledge of market conditions and practice are required when estimating the impact of these sales deductions on gross sales for a reporting period. Historically,
our adjustments to actual results have not been material to our overall business. On a quarterly basis, our adjustments to actual results generally have been less than 1% of Biopharmaceutical net sales and can result in either a net increase or a
net decrease in income. Product-specific rebate charges, however, can have a significant impact on year-over-year individual product growth trends.   
  Certain deductions from revenues follow:       

(a)    
    Rebates are product-specific and, therefore, for any given year are impacted by the mix of products sold.      

(b)    
    Performance-based contracts are with managed care customers, including health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers, who receive rebates based
on the achievement of contracted performance terms for products.      

(c)    
    Chargebacks primarily represent reimbursements to wholesalers for honoring contracted prices to third parties.      
  The rebates and chargebacks for 2010 were higher than 2009, primarily as a result of:   

the inclusion of rebates and chargebacks related to legacy Wyeth products;      

the impact of increased Medicaid rebate rates due to the U.S. Healthcare Legislation, in addition to higher rates for certain products that are subject to
rebates; and          

an increase in chargebacks for our branded products as a result of increasing competitive pressures and increasing sales for certain branded products subject to
chargebacks,         partially offset by, among other factors:   

changes in product mix; and          

the impact on chargebacks of decreased sales within our generics business.         Our accruals for Medicaid rebates, Medicare rebates, performance-based contract rebates and chargebacks were $3.0 billion as of December 31, 2010 and $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2009, and primarily are all
included in O ther current liabilities .       Revenues by Business Segment       Effective with the acquisition of Wyeth, we operate in the following two distinct commercial organizations, which constitute our two business segments:   

Biopharmaceutical  consists of the Primary Care, Specialty Care, Oncology, Established Products and Emerging Markets units and includes products that
prevent and treat cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, central nervous system disorders, arthritis and pain, infectious and respiratory diseases, urogenital conditions, cancer, eye diseases and endocrine disorders, among others.
Biopharmaceutical s segment profit includes costs related to research and development, manufacturing, and sales and marketing activities that are associated with the products in our Biopharmaceutical segment.      

Diversified  includes Animal Health products and services that prevent and treat diseases in livestock and companion animals, including vaccines,
parasiticides and anti-infectives; Consumer Healthcare products that include over-the-counter healthcare products such as pain management therapies (analgesics and heat wraps), cough/cold/allergy remedies, dietary supplements, hemorrhoidal care and
personal care items; Nutrition products that consist mainly of infant and toddler nutritional products; and Capsugel, which represents our capsule products and services business. Diversified s segment profit includes costs related to research
and development, manufacturing, and sales and marketing activities that are associated with the products in our Diversified segment.      

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             Revenues by Segment and Geographic Area       Worldwide revenues by segment and geographic area follow:   

(a)    
    Legacy Wyeth revenues are included for a full year in 2010. 2009 includes revenues from legacy Wyeth products commencing on the Wyeth acquisition date,
October 15, 2009, in accordance with Pfizer s domestic and international year-ends.      

(b)    
    Includes Pfizer CentreSource, which includes contract manufacturing and bulk pharmaceutical chemical sales.      
   Revenues by Segment and Unit       Worldwide revenues by segment
and by unit follow:       

(a)   
    Legacy Wyeth revenues are included for a full year in 2010. 2009 reflects revenues from legacy Wyeth products commencing on the Wyeth acquisition date,
October 15, 2009, in accordance with Pfizer s domestic and international year-ends.      

(b)   
    Within the Biopharmaceutical segment, revenues from South Korea in 2009 and 2008 have been reclassified from the Emerging Markets unit to the appropriate
developed market units to conform to the current-year presentation, which reflects the fact that the commercial operations of South Korea, effective January 1, 2010, are managed within the appropriate developed market units.

(c)   
      The legacy Pfizer Primary Care unit was negatively impacted by 2% in 2010 due the loss
of exclusivity of Lipitor in Canada in May 2010 and in Spain in July 2010, as well as by developed Europe pricing pressures and U.S. healthcare reform. These negative impacts were partially offset by the growth from selected brands, including
Lyrica, Champix and Celebrex, among others, in key international markets, most notably Japan.      

(d)   
    The legacy Pfizer Specialty Care unit was negatively impacted in 2010 by developed Europe pricing pressures, U.S. healthcare reform and a decline in certain
therapeutic markets.      

(e)   
    The legacy Pfizer Established Products unit was negatively impacted by 4% in 2010 due to the loss of exclusivity for Norvasc in Canada in July 2009, which was
partially offset by the favorable impact of 1% in 2010 due to the reclassification of Camptosar s European revenues to the Established Products unit, effective January 1, 2010.      

(  f  )   
    The legacy Pfizer Emerging Markets unit was negatively impacted in 2010 primarily by the loss of exclusivity of Viagra and Lipitor in Brazil in June and August
2010, respectively and emerging Europe pricing pressures, but positively impacted by growth in key markets, including China and Brazil.      

(g)   
    Legacy Pfizer Oncology unit revenues in 2010 do not include Camptosar s European revenues due to Camptosar s loss of exclusivity in Europe in July
2009. The reclassification of those revenues to the Established Products unit effective January 1, 2010, as discussed above, negatively impacted the legacy Pfizer Oncology unit s performance by 17% in 2010 compared to 2009.

(h  )   
    Includes Pfizer CentreSource, which includes contract manufacturing and bulk pharmaceutical chemical sales.      

*  
  Calculation not meaningful.         Biopharmaceutical Revenues
      Biopharmaceutical revenues contributed approximately 86% of our total revenues in 2010 and 91% of our total revenues in 2009 and 2008.   
  We recorded direct product sales of more than $1 billion for each of 15 Biopharmaceutical products in 2010 and for each of nine legacy Pfizer Biopharmaceutical
products in 2009 and 2008. These products represented 60% of our Biopharmaceutical revenues in 2010, 56% of our Biopharmaceutical revenues in 2009 and 60% of our Biopharmaceutical revenues in 2008. We did not record more than $1 billion in revenues
for any individual legacy Wyeth product in 2009 as the Wyeth acquisition date was October 15, 2009. While Wyeth s revenues are not included in our 2008 amounts, as Wyeth had not yet been acquired, Wyeth had five products with direct
product revenues of more than $1 billion in 2008.   

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             2010 vs. 2009       Worldwide Biopharmaceutical revenues in 2010 were $58.5 billion, an increase of 29% compared to
2009, due to:       

the inclusion of operational revenues from legacy Wyeth products of approximately $13.7 billion, which favorably impacted Biopharmaceutical revenues by 30%; and

the weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies, primarily the Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, Japanese yen and Brazilian real, which favorably
impacted Biopharmaceutical revenues by approximately $900 million, or 2%,         partially offset by:   

the decrease in operational revenues of approximately $1.5 billion, or 3%, from legacy Pfizer products overall, including Norvasc, Camptosar, Lipitor and
Detrol/Detrol LA.         Geographically,       

in the U.S., Biopharmaceutical revenues increased 30% in 2010, compared to 2009, reflecting the inclusion of revenues from legacy Wyeth products of $6.6 billion,
which had a favorable impact of 33%, partially offset by lower overall revenues from legacy Pfizer products, including Lipitor, Detrol/Detrol LA, Celebrex, Lyrica, Chantix and Caduet and the impact of increased rebates in 2010 as a result of the
U.S. Healthcare Legislation, all of which had an unfavorable impact of $664 million, or 3%; and          

in our international markets, Biopharmaceutical revenues increased 28% in 2010, compared to 2009, reflecting the inclusion of operational revenues from legacy
Wyeth products of $7.1 billion, which had a favorable impact of 28%, and the favorable impact of foreign exchange on international Biopharmaceutical revenues of approximately $900 million, or 3%, partially offset by lower operational revenues from
legacy Pfizer products of $819 million, or 3%. The decrease in operational revenues of legacy Pfizer products was due to lower operational revenues from, among other products, Lipitor, Norvasc and Camptosar, all of which were impacted by the loss of
exclusivity in certain international markets.         During 2010, international Biopharmaceutical revenues represented 56% of total
Biopharmaceutical revenues, consistent with 2009.      Effective July 1, 2010, January 1, 2010, August 14, 2009, and January 3,
2009, we increased the published prices for certain U.S. Biopharmaceutical products. These price increases had no material effect on wholesaler inventory levels in comparison to the prior year.   
   2009 vs. 2008       Worldwide Biopharmaceutical revenues in 2009
were $45.4 billion, an increase of 3% compared to 2008, primarily due to:       

the inclusion of operational revenues from legacy Wyeth products of approximately $2.5 billion; and      

solid operational performance from certain legacy Pfizer products, including Lyrica, Sutent and Revatio, and higher legacy Pfizer alliance revenues,
        partially offset by:       

the strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies, primarily the euro, U.K. pound, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar and Brazilian real, which
unfavorably impacted Biopharmaceutical revenues by approximately $1.7 billion, or 4%, in 2009; and          

a decrease in revenues from certain legacy Pfizer products, including Lipitor, Norvasc, Campostar and Chantix/Champix.      
  Geographically,       

in the U.S., Biopharmaceutical revenues increased 6% in 2009, primarily due to revenues from legacy Wyeth products of approximately $1.6 billion, or 9%, which
were partially offset by lower revenues from certain legacy Pfizer products, including Lipitor and Celebrex, compared to 2008, as a result of continued generic pressures. Legacy Pfizer revenues also were adversely affected by the loss of exclusivity
of Camptosar and Zyrtec/Zyrtec D, lower sales of Chantix following the changes to the product label, increased rebates partly as a result of the impact of certain contract changes, and increased pricing pressures. These factors were partially offset
by the solid performance from certain legacy Pfizer products, including Lyrica, Viagra, Revatio, Xalatan and Sutent, and alliance revenues in 2009; and      

in our international markets, Biopharmaceutical revenues were flat in 2009, compared to 2008. Higher revenues due to the addition of legacy Wyeth products of
$931 million, or 4%, and higher operational revenues from legacy Pfizer products of $783 million, or 3%, were offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange on international revenues of $1.7 billion, or 7%. The increase in operational revenues
of legacy Pfizer products was due to operational growth from Lipitor, Lyrica, Zyvox, Vfend, Sutent and alliance products, partially offset by lower revenues of Norvasc and Camptosar, among others.      

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             Diversified Revenues        2010 vs. 2009       Worldwide Diversified revenues increased 114% in 2010, compared to 2009, due to:       

the inclusion of operational revenues from legacy Wyeth products of approximately $4.4 billion in 2010, which favorably impacted Diversified revenues by 106%.
The increase was primarily due to the addition of the legacy Wyeth Consumer Healthcare and Nutrition operations. In addition, worldwide Diversified revenues were favorably impacted by the operational revenue increase in legacy Pfizer Diversified
businesses of 3% in 2010, and the favorable impact of foreign exchange of 5%.         Revenues from Animal Health increased 29% in 2010,
compared to 2009, reflecting:       

the inclusion of operational revenues from legacy Wyeth Animal Health products of 22%;      

higher operational revenues from legacy Pfizer Animal Health products of 4% due primarily to growth in the companion animal and livestock businesses; and

the favorable impact of foreign exchange of 3%.      
   2009 vs. 2008       Worldwide Diversified revenues in 2009 were
$4.2 billion, an increase of 17% compared to 2008, due to:       

revenues from legacy Wyeth products of approximately $764 million, primarily from the addition of the legacy Wyeth Consumer Healthcare and Nutrition operations,
        partially offset by:       

a decrease in revenues from legacy Pfizer Animal Health products and the Capsugel business, primarily due to the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange.
        Revenues from Animal Health products decreased 2% in 2009 compared to 2008, reflecting the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of
5%, flat operational performance of legacy Pfizer Animal Health products and the revenue increase from the addition of legacy Wyeth Animal Health products of 3%.      The following factors impacted 2009 Animal Health results:       

the global recession, which negatively affected global spending on veterinary care;      

historically low milk prices, which hurt the profitability of dairy farmers and negatively impacted our livestock business; and      

a change in terms with U.S. distributors resulting in an anticipated, one-time reduction in U.S. distributor inventories in the first quarter of 2009.

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             Revenues Major Biopharmaceutical Products       Revenue information for several of our major Biopharmaceutical
products follows:       

(a)   
    Legacy Wyeth products. Legacy Wyeth operations are included for a full year in 2010. In accordance with Pfizer s domestic and international year-ends, 2009
includes approximately two-and-a-half months of Wyeth s U.S. operations and approximately one-and-a-half months of Wyeth s international operations.      

(b)   
    Outside the U.S. and Canada.      

(c)   
    Represents direct sales under license agreement with Eisai Co., Ltd.      

(d)   
    Enbrel (in the U.S. and Canada) (  a)  , Aricept, Exforge, Rebif and Spiriva.      

*  
  Calculation not meaningful.        Certain amounts and percentages may
reflect rounding adjustments.   

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             Biopharmaceutical Selected Product Descriptions        

Lipitor , for the treatment of elevated LDL-cholesterol levels in the blood, is the most widely used branded prescription treatment for lowering
cholesterol and the best-selling prescription pharmaceutical product of any kind in the world. Lipitor recorded worldwide revenues of $10.7 billion, or a decrease of 6%, in 2010, compared to 2009 due to:      

the continuing impact of an intensely competitive lipid-lowering market with competition from generics and branded products worldwide;

increased payer pressure worldwide;          

slower growth in the lipid-lowering market in the U.S. due, in part, to a slower rate of growth in the Medicare Part D population and, reflecting challenging
economic conditions, heightened overall patient cost-sensitivity in the U.S. and adoption of non-prescription treatment options; and          
 
  partially offset by:       

the favorable impact of foreign exchange, which increased revenues by $220 million, or 2%.      
  Geographically,       

See the  Our Operating Environment  section of this
Financial Review for a discussion concerning the expected loss of exclusivity for Lipitor in various markets.      During the period from
August through December 2010, we implemented four voluntary recalls of Lipitor 40 mg tablets due to a small number of reports of an uncharacteristic odor related to the bottles in which Lipitor is packaged. Our recalls involved a total of 20 lots in
the U.S. and Canada. The odor related to bottles that were manufactured by a third-party supplier, most of which entered the supply chain before August 2010. A medical assessment by us has determined that the odor is not likely to cause adverse
health consequences. We have identified the source of the odor, and we are implementing rigorous measures to prevent odor-related issues going forward. While the rate of odor complaints is very low, we cannot rule out the possibility of further
recalls based on our quality control measures in the event that there are any future odor-related observations. These recalls have not had any significant impact on our results of operations, and we do not expect any disruptions in the supply of
Lipitor.       

Enbrel , for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, polyarticular juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, plaque psoriasis and ankylosing
spondylitis, a type of arthritis affecting the spine, recorded worldwide revenues, excluding the U.S. and Canada, of $3.3 billion in 2010. Enbrel revenues from the U.S. and Canada are included in alliance revenues. The approval of competing products
for the treatment of psoriasis has increased competition with respect to Enbrel in 2010.         Under our co-promotion
agreement with Amgen Inc. (Amgen), we and Amgen co-promote Enbrel in the U.S. and Canada and share in the profits from Enbrel sales in those countries, recorded as alliance revenues. The co-promotion term is scheduled to end in October 2013, and,
subject to the terms of the agreement, we are entitled to a royalty stream for 36 months thereafter, which is significantly less than our current share of Enbrel profits from U.S. and Canadian sales. Following the end of the royalty period, we will
not be entitled to any further alliance revenues from Enbrel sales in the U.S. and Canada. Our exclusive rights to Enbrel outside the U.S. and Canada will not be affected by the expiration of the co-promotion agreement with Amgen.   

Lyrica , indicated for the management of post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN), diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN), fibromyalgia, and as adjunctive therapy for
adult patients with partial onset seizures in the U.S., and for neuropathic pain, adjunctive treatment of epilepsy and general anxiety disorder (GAD) in certain countries outside the U.S., recorded an increase in worldwide revenues of 8% in 2010,
compared to 2009. Lyrica had a strong operational performance in international markets in 2010, including Japan, where Lyrica was launched as the first product approved for the peripheral neuropathic indication. In the U.S., revenues have been
adversely affected by increased generic competition, as well as managed care pricing and formulary pressures.          

Prevnar/Prevenar 13 ,   launched in Germany in late 2009 and in the U.S. in early 2010 with launches in other markets during 2010, is our 13-valent
pneumococcal conjugate vaccine for preventing invasive pneumococcal disease in infants and young children. Prevnar/Prevenar 13 had worldwide revenues of $2.4 billion in 2010. To date, Prevnar/Prevenar 13 has been approved in over 80 countries and
launched in over 55 of those countries. The launch of Prevnar/Prevenar 13 has resulted in a reduction of our Prevnar/Prevenar (7-valent) revenues. We expect this trend to continue.      

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       

Celebrex  is a treatment for the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis and acute pain in adults. Celebrex worldwide revenues were
relatively flat in 2010, compared to 2009. In the U.S., revenues have been adversely affected by generic competition. Celebrex is supported by continued educational and promotional efforts highlighting its efficacy and safety profile for appropriate
patients.          

Viagra  remains the leading treatment for erectile dysfunction and one of the world s most recognized pharmaceutical brands after more than a decade.
Viagra worldwide revenues increased 2% in 2010, compared to 2009. In the U.S., Viagra revenues increased 3% in 2010, compared to 2009. Internationally, Viagra revenues increased 1%, due to a favorable impact of foreign exchange in 2010 compared to
2009. Viagra began facing generic competition in Spain and Finland in December 2009.          

Xalabrands  consists of  Xalatan , a prostaglandin, the world s leading branded agent to reduce elevated eye pressure in patients with open-angle
glaucoma or ocular hypertension, and  Xalacom,  a fixed combination prostaglandin (Xalatan) and beta blocker (timolol) that is available outside the U.S. Xalatan/Xalacom worldwide revenues increased 1% in 2010, compared to 2009. The increase
was due to higher revenues in the U.S., partially offset by lower international revenues due to the launch of generic latanoprost in Japan in May 2010 and in Italy in July 2010. Additionally, foreign exchange had a favorable impact in 2010, compared
to 2009. We expect to lose exclusivity for Xalatan in the U.S. in March 2011 and for Xalatan and Xalacom in the majority of major European markets in July 2011. We are pursuing a pediatric extension for Xalatan in the EU. If we are successful, the
exclusivity period for both Xalatan and Xalacom in the majority of major European markets will be extended by six months to January 2012.          

Effexor XR (extended release capsules) , an antidepressant for treating adult patients with major depressive disorder, GAD, social anxiety disorder and
panic disorder, recorded worldwide revenues of $1.7 billion in 2010. Effexor XR faces generic competition outside the U.S. and, it has faced generic competition in the U.S. since July 1, 2010. This generic competition had, in 2010, and will
continue to have a significant adverse impact on our revenues for Effexor XR.          

Norvasc , for treating hypertension, lost exclusivity in the U.S. in March 2007. Norvasc also has experienced patent expirations in other major markets,
including Canada in July 2009 and Japan in March 2008. Norvasc worldwide revenues decreased 24% in 2010, compared to 2009.          

Prevnar/Prevenar (7-valent),  our 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine for preventing invasive pneumococcal disease in infants and young children, had
worldwide revenues of $1.3 billion in 2010. Certain markets have transitioned from the use of Prevnar/Prevenar (7-valent) to Prevnar/Prevenar 13 (see discussion above) resulting in lower revenues for Prevnar/Prevenar (7-valent). We expect this trend
to continue.          

Zyvox  is the world s best-selling branded agent for the treatment of certain serious Gram-positive pathogens, including Methicillin-Resistant
Staphylococcus-Aureus (MRSA). Zyvox worldwide revenues increased 3% in 2010, compared to 2009, primarily due to growth in emerging markets and developed markets in Europe. In the U.S., revenues have been adversely affected by flat market growth and
increased generic and branded competition.          

Sutent  is for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma, including metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC), and gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST)
after disease progression on, or intolerance to, imatinib mesylate. Sutent worldwide revenues increased 11% in 2010, compared to 2009, primarily due to strong operational performance in international markets. We continue to drive total revenue and
prescription growth, supported by cost-effectiveness data and efficacy data in first-line mRCC  including two-year survival data, which represent the first time that overall survival of two years has been seen in the treatment of advanced
kidney cancer, as well as through increasing access and healthcare coverage. As of December 31, 2010, Sutent was the best-selling medicine in the world for the treatment of first-line mRCC.      
  On July 1, 2010 the FDA approved revised labeling for Sutent, which includes a boxed warning concerning hepatotoxicity and related changes to
the warnings and precautions section. In addition, as part of a risk mitigation and communication plan, the revised label includes a Medication Guide that patients will receive when Sutent is dispensed.   
  Pfizer maintains a global safety database, monitoring all sponsored clinical trials and spontaneous adverse event reports. Hepatic failure has been
uncommonly observed in clinical trials (0.3%) and post-marketing experience, consistent with the very low rate of hepatic failure observed in the clinical trials of Sutent used to support original registration in 2006. Over 91,000 patients worldwide
have been treated with Sutent.      The risk-benefit profile of Sutent in both mRCC and second-line GIST has been well established through
large, randomized clinical trials evaluating its safety and efficacy. Sutent remains an important treatment option for these two difficult-to-treat cancers.       

Our  Premarin  family of products remains the leading therapy to help women address moderate-to-severe menopausal symptoms. It had worldwide revenues of
$1.0 billion in 2010.          

Geodon/Zeldox , an atypical antipsychotic, is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia, as monotherapy for the acute treatment of bipolar manic or
mixed episodes, and as an adjunct to lithium or valproate for the maintenance treatment of bipolar disorder. Geodon worldwide revenues increased 2% in 2010, compared to 2009, due in part to continued growth in the U.S. antipsychotic market and the
recent U.S. approval of Geodon for adjunctive bipolar maintenance therapy in adults.          

Detrol/Detrol LA,  a muscarinic receptor antagonist, is the most prescribed branded medicine worldwide for overactive bladder. Detrol LA is an
extended-release formulation taken once a day. Detrol/Detrol LA worldwide revenues declined 12% in 2010, compared to 2009, primarily due to increased competition from other branded medicines.      

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       

Zosyn / Tazocin , our broad-spectrum intravenous antibiotic, faces generic competition in the U.S. and certain other markets. It had worldwide
revenues of $952 million in 2010.          

Genotropin , the world s leading human growth hormone, is used in children for the treatment of short stature with growth hormone deficiency,
Prader-Willi Syndrome, Turner Syndrome, Small for Gestational Age Syndrome, Idiopathic Short Stature (in the U.S. only) and Chronic Renal Insufficiency (outside the U.S. only), as well as in adults with growth hormone deficiency. Genotropin is
supported by a broad platform of innovative injection-delivery devices. Genotropin worldwide revenues were relatively flat compared to 2009.          

Vfend,  as the only branded agent available in intravenous and oral forms, continued to build on its position as the best-selling systemic, antifungal
agent worldwide in 2010. The global revenues of Vfend continued to be driven in 2010 by its acceptance as an excellent broad-spectrum agent for treating yeast and molds. Vfend worldwide revenues increased 3% in 2010, compared to 2009.
        In October 2009, we settled a challenge by Mylan, Inc. (Mylan) and its subsidiary, Matrix Laboratories Limited
(Matrix), to four of our patents relating to Vfend by entering into an agreement granting Matrix and another subsidiary of Mylan the right to market their voriconazole (generic Vfend) tablet in the U.S. Pursuant to that settlement agreement, Matrix
and the other Mylan subsidiary launched their generic voriconazole tablet in the U.S. in February 2011. In addition, the basic patent for Vfend tablets in Brazil expired on January 1, 2011.   

Chantix/Champix , the first new prescription treatment to aid smoking cessation in nearly a decade, has been launched in all major markets. Chantix/Champix
worldwide revenues increased 8% in 2010, compared to 2009. Revenues in 2010 were impacted by strong operational performance in international developed markets and the favorable impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by the impact of changes to
the product s label and other factors, especially in the U.S. We are continuing our educational and promotional efforts, which are focused on the Chantix benefit-risk proposition, the significant health consequences of smoking and the
importance of the physician-patient dialogue in helping patients quit smoking.          

Protonix , our proton pump inhibitor for gastroesophageal reflux disease, had revenues of $690 million in 2010. We have an exclusive license from Nycomed
GmbH to sell Protonix in the U.S., where it faces generic competition as the result of at-risk launches by certain generic manufacturers that began in December 2007 and the expiration of the basic U.S. patent (including the six-month pediatric
exclusivity period) in January 2011.          

BeneFIX and ReFacto AF/Xyntha  are hemophilia products that use state-of-the-art manufacturing to assist patients with this lifelong bleeding disorder.
BeneFIX is the only available recombinant factor IX product for the treatment of hemophilia B, while ReFacto AF/Xyntha are recombinant factor VIII products for the treatment of hemophilia A. Both products are indicated for the control and prevention
of bleeding in patients with these disorders and in some countries also are indicated for prophylaxis in certain situations, such as surgery. BeneFIX recorded worldwide revenues of $643 million in 2010. ReFacto AF/Xyntha recorded worldwide revenues
of $404 million in 2010.          

Caduet  is a single-pill therapy combining Norvasc and Lipitor. Caduet worldwide revenues declined 4% in 2010, compared to 2009, primarily due to increased
generic competition, as well as an overall decline in U.S. hypertension market volume, partially offset by strong operational performance in international markets and the favorable impact of foreign exchange. We expect that Caduet will lose
exclusivity in the U.S. in November 2011.          

Revatio , for the treatment of PAH, had an increase in worldwide revenues of 7% in 2010, compared to 2009, due in part to increased PAH awareness driving
earlier diagnosis and increased therapy days in the U.S. and EU.          

Pristiq  was approved for the treatment of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) in the U.S. in February 2008 and subsequently was approved for that indication
in 28 other countries. Pristiq has also been approved for treatment of moderate-to-severe vasomotor symptoms (VMS) associated with menopause in Thailand, Mexico and the Philippines. Pristiq recorded worldwide revenues of $466 million in 2010.

Alliance revenues  worldwide increased 40% in 2010, compared to 2009, mainly due to the strong performance of Spiriva, Aricept and Rebif, as well as the
inclusion of sales of Enbrel, a legacy Wyeth product, in the U.S. and Canada. We lost exclusivity for Aricept 5mg and 10mg tablets in the U.S. in November 2010. We expect that the Aricept 23mg tablet will have exclusivity in the U.S. until July
2013.         See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies  for a
discussion of recent developments concerning patent and product litigation relating to certain of the products discussed above.       Product
Developments   Biopharmaceutical       We continue to invest in R D to provide potential future sources of revenues through the development
of new products, as well as through additional uses for existing in-line and alliance products. We remain on track to achieve our previously announced goal of 15 to 20 regulatory submissions in the 2010 to 2012 period. Notwithstanding our efforts,
there are no assurances as to when, or if, we will receive regulatory approval for additional indications for existing products or any of our other products in development.      On February 1, 2011, we announced that we are continuing to closely evaluate our global research and development function and will accelerate our current strategies to improve innovation and overall
productivity by prioritizing areas with the greatest scientific and commercial promise, utilizing appropriate risk/return profiles and focusing on areas with the highest potential to deliver value in the near term and over time (see the  Our
Strategy  section of this Financial Review). Our high-priority therapeutic areas are immunology and inflammation, oncology, cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, neuroscience and pain, and vaccines.   

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            Below are significant regulatory actions by, and filings pending with, the FDA and regulatory authorities in the EU and Japan as well as new drug candidates and additional indications in late-stage development:

Recent FDA approvals:    
 
  PRODUCT  
      
  INDICATION  
      
  DATE APPROVED   
 
  Prevnar 13 Infant  
      
  Prevention of invasive pneumococcal disease in infants and young children  
      
  February 2010        

Pending U.S. new drug applications (NDA) and supplemental
filings:    
 
  PRODUCT  
      
  INDICATION  
      
  DATE SUBMITTED   
 
  tafamidis meglumine  
      
  Treatment of transthyretin amyloid polyneuropathy (ATTR-PN)  
      
  February 2011   
 
  Prevnar 13 Adult  
      
  Prevention of pneumococcal disease in adults 50 years of age and older  
      
  December 2010   
 
  Taliglucerase alfa  
      
  Treatment of Gaucher disease  
      
  December 2009   
 
  Sutent  
      
  Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor  
      
  December 2009   
 
  Genotropin  
      
  Adult growth hormone deficiency (Mark VII multidose disposable device)  
      
  October 2009   
 
  Celebrex  
      
  Chronic pain  
      
  August 2009   
 
  Geodon  
      
    Treatment of bipolar disorder  pediatric filing   
      
  October 2008   
 
  Spiriva  
      
  Respimat device for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease  
      
  November 2007   
 
  Zmax  
      
  Treatment of bacterial infections  sustained release  acute otitis media (AOM) and sinusitis  pediatric
filing  
      
  November 2006   
 
  Viviant  
      
    Osteoporosis treatment and prevention   
      
  June 2006   
 
  Pristiq  
      
  Vasomotor symptoms of menopause  
      
  June 2006   
 
  Vfend  
      
  Treatment of fungal infections  pediatric filing  
      
  June 2005       On October 6, 2010, we completed the acquisition of FoldRx. Its lead product candidate, tafamidis meglumine (Tafamidis), is in registration in both the U.S. and the EU as a first-in-class oral therapy for the
treatment of transthyretin amyloid polyneuropathy (ATTR-PN), a progressively fatal genetic neurodegenerative disease, for which liver transplant is the only treatment option currently available. Tafamidis has orphan drug designation in both the U.S.
and EU and fast-track designation in the U.S.      In November 2009, we entered into a license and supply agreement with Protalix BioTherapeutics (Protalix),
which provides us exclusive worldwide rights, except in Israel, to develop and commercialize taliglucerase alfa for the treatment of Gaucher disease. In April 2010, Protalix completed a rolling NDA with the FDA for taliglucerase alfa. Taliglucerase
alfa was granted orphan drug designation in the U.S. in September 2009. In February 2011, Protalix received a  complete response  letter from the FDA for the taliglucerase alfa NDA that set forth additional requirements for approval.
Protalix will work with the FDA to determine next steps.      In May 2010, the FDA issued a  complete response  letter requesting additional
information in connection with our supplemental NDA seeking approval to use Sutent for the treatment of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. We have provided the requested information, including an analysis of independently reviewed scans, and are
working with the FDA to pursue regulatory approval.      In April 2010, we received a  complete response  letter from the FDA for the Genotropin
Mark VII multidose disposable device submission. In August 2010, we submitted our response to address the requests and recommendations included in the FDA letter.      In June 2010, we received a  complete response  letter from the FDA for the Celebrex chronic pain supplemental NDA. We are working with the FDA to determine the next steps.   
  In October 2009, we received a  complete response  letter from the FDA with respect to the supplemental NDA for Geodon for the treatment of acute bipolar
mania in children and adolescents aged 10 to 17 years. In October 2010, we submitted our response to address the issues raised in the FDA letter. In April 2010, we received a  warning letter  from the FDA with respect to the clinical trial
in support of this supplemental NDA. We are working with the FDA to address the issues raised in the letter.      Boehringer Ingelheim (BI), our alliance
partner, holds the NDAs for Spiriva Handihaler and Spiriva Respimat. In September 2008, BI received a  complete response  letter from the FDA for the Spiriva Respimat submission. The FDA is seeking additional data, and we are coordinating
with BI, which is working with the FDA to provide the additional information. A full response will be submitted to the FDA upon the completion of planned and ongoing studies.      In September 2007, we received an  approvable  letter from the FDA for Zmax that set forth requirements to obtain approval for the pediatric acute otitis media (AOM) indication based on pharmacokinetic
data. A supplemental filing for pediatric AOM and sinusitis remains under review.      Two  approvable  letters were received by Wyeth in April and
December 2007 from the FDA for Viviant (bazedoxifene), for the prevention of post-menopausal osteoporosis, that set forth the additional requirements for approval. In May 2008, Wyeth received an  approvable  letter from the FDA for the
treatment of post-menopausal osteoporosis. The FDA is seeking additional data, and we have been systematically working through these requirements and seeking to address the FDA s concerns. In February 2008, the FDA advised Wyeth that it expects
to convene an advisory committee to review the pending NDAs for both the treatment and   

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            
prevention indications after we submit our response to the  approvable  letters. In April 2009, Wyeth received approval in the EU for CONBRIZA (the EU trade name for Viviant) for the
treatment of post-menopausal osteoporosis in women at increased risk of fracture. Viviant was also approved in Japan in July 2010 for the treatment of post-menopausal osteoporosis.      In July 2007, Wyeth received an  approvable  letter from the FDA with respect to its NDA for the use of Pristiq in the treatment of moderate-to-severe vasomotor symptoms (VMS) associated with menopause.
The FDA requested an additional one-year study of the safety of Pristiq for this indication. This study was recently completed, and the results were provided to the FDA in December 2010.      In December 2005, we received an  approvable  letter from the FDA for our Vfend pediatric filing that set forth the additional requirements for approval. In April 2010, based on data from a new
pharmacokinetics study, we and the FDA agreed on a Vfend dosing regimen for pediatric patients in three ongoing trials. We continue to work with the FDA to determine the next steps.      The Lyrica NDA for monotherapy treatment of GAD was withdrawn in December 2010.      In December 2010, in the interest of
patient safety, we voluntarily withdrew Thelin for the treatment of PAH in markets where it is approved. In addition, we discontinued clinical studies of Thelin worldwide for the treatment of PAH.   
  The NDAs for Fablyn (lasofoxifene) for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis in post-menopausal women and for the treatment of vulvar and vaginal atrophy
have been withdrawn. We are exploring strategic options for Fablyn, including but not limited to out-licensing or sale.       

Regulatory approvals and filings in the EU and Japan:    
 
  PRODUCT  
      
  DESCRIPTION OF EVENT  
      
  DATE APPROVED  
      
  DATE SUBMITTED   
 
  Sutent  
      
  Approval in the EU for treatment of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor  
      
  December 2010  

Prevenar 13 Adult  
      
    Application submitted in the EU for prevention of pneumococcal disease in adults 50 years of age
and older   

December 2010   
 
  Taliglucerase alfa  
      
    Application submitted in the EU for treatment of Gaucher disease   

November 2010   
 
  Lyrica  
      
    Approval in Japan for neuropathic pain   
      
  October 2010  

Xalatan  
      
    Approval in the EU for pediatric glaucoma   
      
  September 2010  

Torisel  
      
  Approval in Japan for renal cell carcinoma  
      
  July 2010  

Genotropin  
      
    Approval in the EU for adult growth hormone deficiency (Mark VII multidose disposable
device)   
      
  July 2010  

Viviant  
      
  Approval in Japan for the treatment of post-menopausal osteoporosis  
      
  July 2010  

atorvastatin calcium  
      
    Approval in the EU for type II variation for atorvastatin calcium (SORTIS and associated names)
for pediatric hyperlipidemia/dyslipidemia   
      
  July 2010  

tafamidis meglumine  
      
    Application submitted in the EU for ATTR-PN   

July 2010   
 
  Macugen  
      
    Application submitted in the EU for type II variation for treatment of diabetic macular
edema   

June 2010   
 
  Genotropin  
      
    Approval in Japan for adult growth hormone deficiency (Mark VII multidose disposable
device)   
      
  June 2010  

Lyrica  
      
    Approval in Japan for the treatment of pain associated with post-herpetic
neuralgia   
      
  April 2010  

Revatio  
      
  Application submitted in the EU for pediatric PAH  

February 2010   
 
  Apixaban  
      
  Application submitted in the EU for prevention of venous thromboembolism  

February 2010   
 
  Xalacom  
      
    Approval in Japan for the treatment of glaucoma   
      
  January 2010  

Prevenar 13 Infant  
      
    Application submitted in Japan for prevention of invasive pneumococcal disease in infants and young
children   

December 2009   
 
  Xiapex  
      
  Application submitted in the EU for treatment of Dupuytren s contracture  

December 2009   
 
  Toviaz  
      
  Application submitted in Japan for overactive bladder  

September 2009          

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            In December 2010, the European Medicine Agency s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) issued a positive opinion recommending that the European Commission approve Xiapex for the treatment of
Dupuytren s contracture in adult patients with a palpable cord.       

Late-stage clinical trials for additional uses and dosage forms for in-line
products:    
 
  PRODUCT  
      
  INDICATION   
 
  Eraxis/Vfend Combination    
      
  Aspergillosis fungal infections   
 
  Lyrica  
      
  Epilepsy monotherapy; central neuropathic pain due to spinal cord injury; peripheral neuropathic
pain   
 
  Revatio  
      
    Pediatric PAH    
 
  Sutent  
      
  Adjuvant renal cell carcinoma   
 
  Torisel  
      
  Renal cell carcinoma   
 
  Zithromax/chloroquine  
      
  Malaria       Set forth below are developments in 2010 with respect to certain Phase 3 trials for Sutent :       

A Phase 3 trial for advanced castration-resistant prostate cancer was discontinued based on an interim analysis, whereby an independent Data Monitoring Committee
(DMC) found that the combination of Sutent with prednisone was unlikely to improve overall survival compared to prednisone alone.          

A Phase 3 trial in combination with erlotinib for the treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer was completed and did not meet its primary endpoint.

The Phase 3 trial for advanced liver cancer was discontinued based on a higher incidence of serious adverse events in the sunitinib arm compared to the sorafenib
arm and the fact that sunitinib did not meet the criteria to demonstrate that it was either superior or non-inferior to sorafenib in the survival of patients with advanced liver cancer.      

Two Phase 3 trials for first-line and second-line treatment of metastatic breast cancer were completed and did not meet their primary endpoints.

New drug candidates in late-stage development in the U.S.:    
 
  CANDIDATE  
      
  INDICATION   
 
  Apixaban  
      
    For the prevention and treatment of venous
thromboembolism and prevention of stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation, which is being developed in collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS)    
 
  Aprela (Bazedoxifene-    conjugated estrogens)  
      
  A tissue-selective estrogen complex for the treatment of menopausal vasomotor
symptoms   
 
  Axitinib  
      
    Oral and selective inhibitor of vascular
endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptor 1, 2,   3 for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma    
 
  Bapineuzumab  
      
    A beta amyloid inhibitor for the treatment of
Alzheimer s disease being developed in collaboration with Janssen Alzheimer Immunotherapy Research   Development, LLC (Janssen AI), a subsidiary of Johnson   Johnson    
 
  Bosutinib  
      
  An Abl and src kinase inhibitor for the treatment of chronic myelogenous leukemia   
 
  Crizotinib (PF-02341066)  
      
    An oral ALK and c-Met inhibitor for the
treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer    
 
  Dimebon (latrepirdine)  
      
    A novel mitochondrial protectant and enhancer
being developed in collaboration with Medivation, Inc., for the treatment of Alzheimer s disease and Huntington s disease    
 
  Inotuzumab ozogamicin  
      
    An antibody drug conjugate, consisting of an
anti-CD22 monotherapy antibody linked to a cytotoxic agent, calicheamycin, for the treatment of aggressive Non-Hodgkin s Lymphoma    
 
  Moxidectin  
      
  Treatment of onchocerciasis (river blindness)   
 
  Neratinib  
      
  A pan-HER inhibitor for the treatment of breast cancer   
 
  PF-0299804  
      
  A pan-HER tyrosine kinase inhibitor for the treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung
cancer   
 
  Tanezumab  
      
  An anti-nerve growth factor monoclonal antibody for the treatment of pain  (on clinical
hold)    
 
  Tofacitinib (formerly     Tasocitinib (CP-690,550)  
      
  A JAK kinase inhibitor for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and
psoriasis       The atrial fibrillation (AF) program of the investigational drug apixaban consists of two trials. First, the data from the Phase
3 AVERROES trial demonstrated that apixaban significantly reduced the relative risk of a composite stroke or systematic embolism by 55% without a significant increase in major bleeding, fatal bleeding or intracranial bleeding compared with aspirin
in patients who were expected or demonstrated to be unsuitable for warfarin treatment. Minor bleeding, however, was increased, compared to aspirin. Second, the Phase 3 ARISTOTLE trial is investigating apixaban compared with warfarin for the
prevention of stroke in approximately 18,000 patients with AF. Based upon discussions with the FDA and in agreement with us, our alliance partner, BMS,   

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            
expects to submit the AVERROES and ARISTOTLE studies together in the U.S., which will cover the broadest spectrum of patients in one single dossier. The ARISTOTLE trial is event driven. As such,
it is not possible to predict with certainty when the results of the trial will be available. BMS expects to have top-line data from ARISTOTLE in the second quarter of 2011 and to submit in the U.S. and the EU late in the third quarter or in the
fourth quarter of 2011 depending on the results of the trial.      In November 2010, we and BMS discontinued the Phase 3 APPRAISE-2 clinical trial in
patients with recent acute coronary syndrome (ACS) treated with apixaban or placebo in addition to mono or dual antiplatelet therapy. The study was stopped early based on the recommendation of an independent DMC due to clear evidence of a clinically
important increase in bleeding among patients randomized to apixaban, which was not offset by clinically meaningful reductions in ischemic events.      Our
collaboration with Janssen AI on bapineuzumab, a potential treatment for Alzheimer s disease, continues with four Phase 3 studies. In December 2010, Janssen AI confirmed that enrollment was complete for its two Phase 3 North American studies
(301 and 302), including the biomarker sub studies. The other two Phase 3 global studies (3000 and 3001) continue to enroll. In April 2010, Johnson   Johnson announced that the two Janssen AI North American studies would be completed (last
patient out) in mid-2012. We announced in May 2010 that we expect that the last patient will have completed our two global 18-month trials, including associated biomarker studies, in 2014.      In January 2011, we initiated the rolling submission of an NDA to the FDA for crizotinib (PF-02341066), an oral anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) and c-MET inhibitor for the treatment of patients with advanced
non-small-cell lung cancer whose tumors are ALK-positive. We expect to complete the submission in the first half of 2011.      In March 2010, Pfizer and
Medivation, Inc. announced that a Phase 3 trial of Dimebon (latrepiridine) did not meet its co-primary or secondary endpoints. Subsequently, we and Medivation, Inc. agreed to discontinue the CONSTELLATION and CONTACT Phase 3 trials in patients with
moderate-to-severe Alzheimer s disease. The two companies continue to investigate Dimebon s potential clinical benefit in the 12-month Phase 3 CONCERT trial in patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer s disease and the six-month Phase
3 HORIZON trial in patients with Huntington s disease. In December 2010, we and Medivation, Inc. announced that patient enrollment was completed on November 30, 2010, in the CONCERT study.   
  Following requests by the FDA in 2010, we suspended worldwide the osteoarthritis, chronic low back pain and painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy studies of
tanezumab. The FDA s requests followed a small number of reports of osteoarthritis patients treated with tanezumab who experienced the worsening of osteoarthritis leading to joint replacement and also reflected the FDA s concerns regarding
the potential for such events in other patient populations. We subsequently terminated the osteoarthritis studies of tanezumab. In December 2010, the FDA placed a clinical hold on all other anti-NGF therapies under clinical investigation in the
U.S., including our study for chronic pancreatitis. Studies of tanezumab in cancer pain were allowed to continue. We continue to work with the FDA to reach an understanding about the appropriate scope of continued clinical investigation of
tanezumab.      In December 2009, we discontinued a Phase 3 trial of figitumumab in first-line treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer for futility.
In March 2010, we discontinued a Phase 3 trial of figitumumab in second/third line treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer for futility. After a detailed evaluation of all available figitumumab data, we decided to stop further clinical
investigation of figitumumab. No safety events led to this decision.      Additional product-related programs are in various stages of discovery and
development. Also, see the discussion in the  Our Business Development Initiatives  section of this Financial Review.        Costs and Expenses
        Cost of Sales        2010 vs. 2009
      Cost of sales increased 83% in 2010, compared to 2009, primarily as a result of:   

purchase accounting charges of approximately $2.9 billion in 2010, compared to approximately $970 million in 2009, primarily reflecting the fair value
adjustments to inventory acquired from Wyeth that was subsequently sold;          

a write-off of inventory of $212 million (which includes a purchase accounting fair value adjustment of $104 million), primarily related to biopharmaceutical
inventory acquired from Wyeth that became unusable after the acquisition date;          

the inclusion of Wyeth s manufacturing operations for a full year in 2010, compared to part of the year in 2009; and      

the change in the mix of products and businesses as a result of the Wyeth acquisition,         partially offset by:       

lower costs as a result of our cost-reduction initiatives.         Foreign exchange had a minimal impact on cost of sales during 2010.       2009 vs. 2008    
  Cost of sales increased 10% in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily as a result of:       

purchase accounting charges of approximately $970 million primarily related to the fair value adjustments to inventory acquired from Wyeth that subsequently was
sold;      

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       

the addition of Wyeth s manufacturing operations; and          

the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange on cost of sales,         partially offset by:       

lower costs recorded in cost of sales related to our cost-reduction initiatives. Cost-reduction initiative charges incurred after the Wyeth acquisition, other
than additional depreciation related to asset restructuring, are included in  Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs .          Selling, Informational and Administrative (SI A) Expenses        2010 vs. 2009    
  SI A expenses increased 32% in 2010, compared to 2009, primarily as a result of:   

the inclusion of Wyeth operating costs for a full year in 2010, compared to part of the year in 2009; and      

the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $237 million.          2009 vs. 2008       SI A expenses increased 2% in 2009, compared to 2008, primarily as a result of:   

the addition of Wyeth s operating costs; and          

increased investment in potential high-growth and new opportunities for existing products,      
  partially offset by:       

the favorable impact of foreign exchange on SI A expenses;          

certain insurance recoveries related to legal defense costs; and      

lower costs recorded in SI A related to our cost-reduction initiatives. Cost-reduction initiative charges incurred after the Wyeth acquisition, other than
additional depreciation related to asset restructuring, are included in Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs.      
   Research and Development (R D) Expenses        2010 vs. 2009
      R D expenses increased 20% in 2010, compared to 2009, primarily as a result of:   

the inclusion of Wyeth operating costs for a full year in 2010, compared to part of the year in 2009; and      

continued investment in the late-stage development portfolio.         Foreign exchange had a minimal impact on R D expenses during 2010.       2009 vs. 2008    
  R D expenses decreased 1% in 2009, compared to 2008, primarily as a result of:       

lower purchase accounting adjustments related to intangible assets acquired in connection with our acquisition of Pharmacia Corporation;

the favorable impact of foreign exchange on R D expenses; and      

lower costs recorded in R D related to our cost-reduction initiatives. Cost-reduction initiative charges incurred after the Wyeth acquisition, other than
additional depreciation related to asset restructuring, are included in  Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs ,         partially offset by:       

the addition of Wyeth operating costs;          

continued investment in the late-stage development portfolio;          

business-development transactions in the Established Products unit; and      

a $150 million milestone payment to BMS in 2009 in connection with the collaboration on apixaban.      
  R D expenses also include payments for intellectual property rights of $358 million in 2010, $474 million in 2009 and $377 million in 2008 (for further
discussion, see the  Our Business Development Initiatives  section of this Financial Review).   

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             Acquisition-Related In-Process Research and Development Charges       As required through December 31, 2008,
the estimated fair value of acquisition-related IPR D charges was expensed at acquisition date. As a result of adopting the provisions of a new accounting standard related to business combinations issued by the Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB), for acquisitions completed after December 31, 2008, we record acquired IPR D on our consolidated balance sheet as indefinite-lived intangible assets. In 2010 and 2009, we resolved certain contingencies and met certain
milestones associated with the CovX acquisition and recorded $125 million in 2010 and $68 million in 2009 of  Acquisition-related in-process research and development   charges . In 2008, we expensed $633 million of IPR D, primarily
related to our acquisitions of Serenex, Encysive, CovX, Coley and a number of animal health product lines from Schering-Plough, as well as two smaller acquisitions also related to animal health.   
   Cost-Reduction and Productivity Initiatives and Related Costs    
   Programs Initiated Prior to 2011       Since the acquisition of
Wyeth, our cost-reduction initiatives announced on January 26, 2009, but not completed as of December 31, 2009, have been incorporated into a comprehensive plan to integrate Wyeth s operations, generate cost savings and capture
synergies across the combined company. In the aggregate, with the combination of these two initiatives into one comprehensive program, we expect to generate cost reductions, net of investments in the business, of approximately $4 billion to $5
billion, by the end of 2012, at 2008 average foreign exchange rates, in comparison with the 2008 proforma combined adjusted total costs of the legacy Pfizer and legacy Wyeth operations. (For an understanding of adjusted total costs, see the
 Adjusted Income  section of this Financial Review). We achieved more than $2.0 billion of these cost savings in 2010 and are on track to meet the 2012 target.      We have incurred and will continue to incur costs in connection with these initiatives. We estimate that these total costs could be in the range of approximately $11.5 billion to $13.5 billion through 2012, of
which we have incurred approximately $9.5 billion in cost-reduction and acquisition-related costs (excluding transaction costs) through December 31, 2010. The cost-reduction target discussed in this section does not include the impact of the
planned reduction in research and development spending that was announced on February 1, 2011 and is discussed below under  New Research and Development Productivity Initiative .   
  These targeted savings are being achieved through the following actions:       

The closing of duplicative facilities and other site rationalization actions Company-wide, including research and development facilities, manufacturing plants,
sales offices and other corporate facilities. In May and June 2010, we announced our plant network strategy for our Global Supply division, excluding Capsugel. As of December 31, 2010, we operate plants in 76 locations around the world that
manufacture products for our businesses. Locations with major manufacturing facilities include Belgium, China, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Philippines, Puerto Rico, Singapore and the United States. Our Global Supply division s plant network
strategy will result in the exit of nine sites over the next several years.          

Workforce reductions across all areas of our business and other organizational changes.      

We identified areas for a reduction in workforce across all of our businesses. As of December 31, 2010, the workforce totaled approximately 110,600, a
decrease of 5,900 from December 31, 2009. Since the closing of the Wyeth acquisition on October 15, 2009, the workforce has declined by 10,100, primarily in the U.S. Primary Care field force, manufacturing, R D and corporate
operations. We expect to exceed our original 15% workforce reduction target.          

The increased use of shared services.          

Procurement savings.         We have incurred
significant costs in connection with our cost-reduction initiatives (including several programs initiated since 2005).      We incurred the following costs
in connection with our cost-reduction initiatives and the acquisition of Wyeth:       

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       

(a)   
      Transaction costs represent external costs directly related to our acquisition of
Wyeth and primarily include expenditures for banking, legal, accounting and other similar services. Substantially all of the costs incurred in 2009 were fees related to a $22.5 billion bridge term loan credit agreement entered into with certain
financial institutions on March 12, 2009 to partially fund our acquisition of Wyeth. The bridge term loan credit agreement was terminated in June 2009 as a result of our issuance of approximately $24.0 billion of senior unsecured notes in the
first half of 2009.      

(b)   
    Integration costs represent external, incremental costs directly related to integrating acquired businesses and primarily include expenditures for consulting and
systems integration.      

(c)   
      Restructuring charges in 2010 are related to the integration of Wyeth. From the
beginning of our cost-reduction and transformation initiatives in 2005 through December 31, 2010,  Employee termination costs  represent the expected reduction of the workforce by approximately 49,000 employees, mainly in manufacturing,
sales and research, of which approximately 36,400 employees have been terminated as of December 31, 2010.  Employee termination costs  are generally recorded when the actions are probable and estimable and include accrued severance
benefits, pension and postretirement benefits, many of which may be paid out during periods after termination.  Asset impairments  primarily include charges to write down property, plant and equipment to fair value.  Other  primarily
includes costs to exit certain assets and activities. Substantially all of these restructuring charges are associated with our Biopharmaceutical segment.      

(d)   
    Additional depreciation  asset restructuring represents the impact of changes in the estimated useful lives of assets involved in restructuring
actions.      

(e)   
      Implementation costs for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 represent
external, incremental costs directly related to implementing cost-reduction initiatives prior to our acquisition of Wyeth, and primarily include expenditures related to system and process standardization and the expansion of shared services. For the
year ended December 31, 2009, implementation costs are included in  Cost of sales  ($42 million ), Selling, informational and administrative expenses  ($166 million),  Research and development expenses  ($36 million) and  Other
deductions  net  ($6 million). For the year ended December 31, 2008, implementation costs are included in  Cost of sales  ($149 million),  Selling, informational and administrative expenses  ($394 million),  Research
and development expenses  ($262 million) and  Other deductions  net  ($14 million).         The components of restructuring
charges associated with all of our cost-reduction initiatives and the acquisition of Wyeth follow:       

(  a  )   
      Includes adjustments for foreign currency translation.      

(  b  )   
    Included in O ther current liabilities  ($1.6 billion) and  Other noncurrent liabilities  ($652 million).      
   New Research and Development Productivity Initiative       On
February 1, 2011, we announced that we are continuing to closely evaluate our global research and development function and will accelerate our current strategies to improve innovation and overall productivity by prioritizing areas with the
greatest scientific and commercial promise, utilizing appropriate risk/return profiles and focusing on areas with the highest potential to deliver value in the near term and over time (see the  Our Strategy  section of this Financial
Review). In connection with these actions:       

We estimate that we will incur pre-tax employee-termination charges in the range of approximately $800 million to $1.1 billion and other pre-tax exit and
implementation charges in the range of approximately $300 million to $500 million, all of which will result in future cash expenditures. We expect most of these charges to be incurred in 2011 and the balance to be incurred in 2012.

We estimate that we will incur total pre-tax impairment and additional depreciation asset restructuring charges in the range of approximately $1.1 billion
to $1.3 billion, of which approximately $800 million to $900 million represent additional depreciation asset restructuring charges. Most of these charges will be associated with our Sandwich, U.K. Facility. We expect most of these non-cash
charges to be incurred in 2011 and the balance to be incurred in 2012.         As a result of these actions, we expect significant reductions
in our annual research and development expenses, which are reflected in our 2011 financial guidance and 2012 financial targets. We expect adjusted R D expenses to be approximately $8.0 billion to $8.5 billion in 2011 and approximately $6.5
billion to $7.0 billion in 2012. For additional information, see the  Our Financial Guidance for 2011  and  Our Financial Targets for 2012  sections of this Financial Review. For an understanding of Adjusted income, see the
 Adjusted Income  section of this Financial Review.       Other (Income)/Deductions Net    
   2010 vs. 2009        Other deductions net  increased by
$4.0 billion in 2010, compared to 2009, which primarily reflects:       

higher asset impairment charges of $1.8 billion in 2010, primarily related to certain intangible assets acquired as part of our acquisition of Wyeth as well as a
legacy Pfizer product, Thelin;          

higher charges for litigation-related matters of $1.5 billion in 2010, primarily associated with the additional $1.3 billion (pre-tax) charge for asbestos
litigation related to our wholly owned subsidiary, Quigley Company, Inc. (for additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies );      

higher interest expense of $566 million in 2010, primarily associated with the $13.5 billion of senior unsecured notes that we issued in March 2009 and the
approximately $10.5 billion of senior unsecured notes that we issued in June 2009 to partially finance the acquisition of Wyeth, as well as the addition of legacy Wyeth debt;      

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       

lower interest income of $344 million in 2010, primarily due to lower interest rates coupled with lower average investment balances; and

the non-recurrence of a $482 million gain recorded in 2009 related to ViiV (see further discussion in the  Our Business Development Initiatives 
section of this Financial Review),         partially offset primarily by:   

higher royalty-related income of $336 million in 2010, primarily due to the addition of legacy Wyeth royalties.      
   2009 vs. 2008        Other deductions net  decreased by
$1.7 billion in 2009, compared to 2008, which primarily reflects:       

the non-recurrence of charges recorded in 2008 of approximately $2.3 billion related to the resolution of certain investigations concerning Bextra and various
other products;          

the non-recurrence of litigation-related charges recorded in 2008 of approximately $900 million associated with the resolution of certain litigation involving
our non-steroidal anti-inflammatory (NSAID) pain medicines; and          

a $482 million gain recorded in 2009 related to ViiV (see further discussion in the  Our Business Development Initiatives  section of this Financial
Review),         partially offset by:       

higher interest expense of $717 million primarily associated with the $13.5 billion of senior unsecured notes that we issued in March 2009 and the approximately
$10.5 billion of senior unsecured notes that we issued in June 2009, to partially finance the acquisition of Wyeth, as well as the addition of legacy Wyeth debt;      

lower interest income of $542 million, primarily due to lower interest rates, partially offset by higher cash balances;      

asset impairment charges of $417 million, primarily associated with certain materials used in our research and development activities that no longer were
considered recoverable; and          

the non-recurrence of a one-time cash payment received in 2008 of $425 million, pre-tax, in exchange for the termination of a license agreement, including the
right to receive future royalties and a gain of $211 million related to the sale of a building in Korea.         For additional information
about the asset impairment charges in each year, see the  Accounting Policies Asset Impairment Reviews Long-Lived Assets  section of this Financial Review as well as Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 2.
Acquisition of Wyeth, Note 3B. Other Significant Transactions and Events: Asset Impairment Charges  and  Note 12B. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets: Other Intangible Assets.         Provision for Taxes on Income        During the fourth quarter of 2010, we reached a settlement with the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service (IRS) related to issues we had appealed with respect to the audits of the Pfizer Inc. tax returns for the years 2002 through 2005, as well as the Pharmacia audit for the year 2003 through the date of merger with Pfizer
(April 16, 2003). The IRS concluded its examination of the aforementioned tax years and issued a final Revenue Agent s Report (RAR). We have agreed with all of the adjustments and computations contained in the RAR. As a result of settling these
audit years, in the fourth quarter of 2010, we reduced our unrecognized tax benefits by approximately $1.4 billion and reversed the related interest accruals by approximately $600 million, both of which had been classified in  Other taxes
payable , and recorded a corresponding tax benefit in  Provision for taxes on income  (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   Note 7. Taxes on Income ).      Our effective tax rate for continuing operations was 11.9% in 2010, 20.3% in 2009 and 17.0% in 2008. The lower tax rate in 2010 compared to 2009 is primarily the result of:   

the aforementioned $1.4 billion reduction in unrecognized tax benefits and $600 million in interest on these unrecognized tax benefits, which were recorded as a
result of the favorable tax audit settlement pertaining to prior years;          

a $320 million reduction in unrecognized tax benefits and $140 million in interest on these unrecognized tax benefits resulting from the resolution of certain
tax positions pertaining to prior years with various foreign tax authorities as well as from the expiration of the statute of limitations; and          

the tax impact of the charge incurred for asbestos litigation,         partially offset by:       

higher expenses, incurred as a result of our acquisition of Wyeth, and the mix of jurisdictions in which those expenses were incurred;

the write-off of the deferred tax asset of approximately $270 million related to the Medicare Part D subsidy for retiree prescription drug coverage, resulting
from changes in the U.S. Healthcare Legislation concerning the tax treatment of that subsidy effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2012; and      

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       

the non-recurrence of a tax benefit of $174 million that was recorded in the third quarter of 2009 related to the final resolution of a previously disclosed
settlement that resulted in the receipt of information that raised our assessment of the likelihood of prevailing on the technical merits of our tax position, and the non-recurrence of the $556 million tax benefit recorded in the fourth quarter of
2009 related to the sale of one of our biopharmaceutical companies, Vicuron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Both items are discussed further below.         The higher tax rate for 2009, compared to 2008, is primarily due to the increased tax costs associated with certain business decisions executed to finance the Wyeth acquisition, partially offset by a tax benefit of
$556 million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2009 related to the sale of one of our biopharmaceutical companies, Vicuron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and a tax benefit of $174 million recorded in the third quarter of 2009 related to the resolution of
certain investigations concerning Bextra and various other products that resulted in the receipt of information that raised our assessment of the likelihood of prevailing on the technical merits of our tax position. The higher tax rate in 2009 also
was partially offset by the decrease in IPR D charges, which generally are not deductible for tax purposes. Also, the 2008 tax rate reflects tax benefits of $305 million related to favorable tax settlements for multiple tax years and $426
million related to the sale of one of our biopharmaceutical companies, Esperion Therapeutics, Inc., which were both recorded in the first half of 2008. 2008 also reflects the impact of the third-quarter 2008 provision for the proposed resolution of
certain Bextra and Celebrex civil litigation and the impact of the fourth-quarter 2008 provision for the proposed resolution of certain investigations which were either not deductible or deductible at lower rates.   
   Tax Law Changes       On August 10, 2010, the President of
the United States signed into law the Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act of 2010 (the Act), which includes education and Medicaid funding provisions, the cost of which is offset with revenues that result from changes to certain aspects of
the tax treatment of the foreign-source income of U.S.-based companies. Given the effective dates of the various provisions of the Act, it had no impact on our 2010 results. The Act will have a negative impact on our results beginning in 2011. The
impact of the Act will be recorded in  Provision for taxes on income.  The impact this year and next year is reflected in our financial guidance for 2011 and our financial targets for 2012.   
  On October 25, 2010, the Governor of Puerto Rico signed into law Act 154 to modify the Puerto Rico source-of-income rules and implement an excise tax on the
purchase of products by multinational corporations and their subsidiaries from their Puerto Rico affiliates that will be in effect from 2011 through 2016. Act 154 had no impact on our 2010 results, since it does not become effective until 2011. Act
154 will have a negative impact on our results in 2011 through 2016. The impact of Act 154 will be recorded in  Cost of sales  and  Provision for taxes on income.  The impact this year and next year is reflected in our financial guidance
for 2011 and our financial targets for 2012.      For additional information on our 2011 guidance and 2012 targets, see the  Our Financial Guidance for
2011  and  Our Financial Targets for 2012  sections of this Financial Review.        Adjusted Income     
   General Description of Adjusted Income Measure       Adjusted
income is an alternative view of performance used by management, and we believe that investors  understanding of our performance is enhanced by disclosing this performance measure. We report Adjusted income in order to portray the results of
our major operations  the discovery, development, manufacture, marketing and sale of prescription medicines for humans and animals, consumer healthcare (over-the-counter) products, vaccines and nutritional products  prior to
considering certain income statement elements. We have defined Adjusted income as Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain
significant items. The Adjusted income measure is not, and should not be viewed as, a substitute for U.S. GAAP net income. Adjusted total costs represent the total of Adjusted cost of sales, Adjusted SI A expenses and Adjusted R D expenses,
which are income statement line items prepared on the same basis as, and are components of, the overall Adjusted income measure.      The Adjusted income
measure is an important internal measurement for Pfizer. We measure the performance of the overall Company on this basis in conjunction with other performance metrics. The following are examples of how the Adjusted income measure is utilized:

senior management receives a monthly analysis of our operating results that is prepared on an Adjusted income basis;      

our annual budgets are prepared on an Adjusted income basis; and      

senior management s annual compensation is derived, in part, using this Adjusted income measure. Adjusted income is one of the performance metrics utilized
in the determination of bonuses under the Pfizer Inc. Executive Annual Incentive Plan that is designed to limit the bonuses payable to the Executive Leadership Team (ELT) for purposes of Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m). Subject to the
Section 162(m) limitation, the bonuses are funded from a pool based on the achievement of three financial metrics, including adjusted diluted earnings per share, which is derived from Adjusted income. Beginning in 2010, these metrics derived
from Adjusted income account for (i) between 7% and 13% of the target bonus for ELT members and (ii) 33% of the bonus pool made available to ELT members and other members of senior management.      
  Despite the importance of this measure to management in goal setting and performance measurement, we stress that Adjusted income is a non-GAAP financial measure
that has no standardized meaning prescribed by U.S. GAAP and, therefore, has limits in its usefulness to investors. Because of its non-standardized definition, Adjusted income (unlike U.S. GAAP net income) may not be comparable to the calculation of
similar measures of other companies. Adjusted income is presented solely to permit investors to more fully understand how management assesses performance.   

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            We also recognize that, as an internal measure of performance, the Adjusted income measure has limitations, and we do not restrict our performance-management process solely to this metric. A limitation of the
Adjusted income measure is that it provides a view of our operations without including all events during a period, such as the effects of an acquisition or amortization of purchased intangibles, and does not provide a comparable view of our
performance to other companies in the biopharmaceutical industry. We also use other specifically tailored tools designed to achieve the highest levels of performance. For example, our R D organization has productivity targets, upon which its
effectiveness is measured. In addition, the earn-out of Performance Share Award grants is determined based on a formula that measures our performance using relative total shareholder return.       Purchase Accounting Adjustments       Adjusted income is calculated prior to considering certain significant
purchase accounting impacts resulting from business combinations and net asset acquisitions. These impacts can include the incremental charge to cost of sales from the sale of acquired inventory that was written up to fair value, amortization
related to the increase in fair value of the acquired finite-lived intangible assets acquired from Pharmacia and Wyeth, depreciation related to the increase/decrease in fair value of the acquired fixed assets, amortization related to the increase in
fair value of acquired debt and charges for purchased IPR D. Therefore, the Adjusted income measure includes the revenues earned upon the sale of the acquired products without considering the aforementioned significant charges.   
  Certain of the purchase accounting adjustments associated with a business combination, such as the amortization of intangibles acquired as part of our acquisition
of Wyeth in 2009 and Pharmacia in 2003, can occur through 20 or more years, but this presentation provides an alternative view of our performance that is used by management to internally assess business performance. We believe the elimination of
amortization attributable to acquired intangible assets provides management and investors an alternative view of our business results by trying to provide a degree of parity to internally developed intangible assets for which research and
development costs previously have been expensed.      However, a completely accurate comparison of internally developed intangible assets and acquired
intangible assets cannot be achieved through Adjusted income. This component of Adjusted income is derived solely from the impacts of the items listed in the first paragraph of this section. We have not factored in the impacts of any other
differences in experience that might have occurred if we had discovered and developed those intangible assets on our own, and this approach does not intend to be representative of the results that would have occurred in those circumstances. For
example, our research and development costs in total, and in the periods presented, may have been different; our speed to commercialization and resulting sales, if any, may have been different; or our costs to manufacture may have been different. In
addition, our marketing efforts may have been received differently by our customers. As such, in total, there can be no assurance that our Adjusted income amounts would have been the same as presented had we discovered and developed the acquired
intangible assets.       Acquisition-Related Costs    
  Adjusted income is calculated prior to considering transaction, integration, restructuring and additional depreciation costs associated with business combinations
because these costs are unique to each transaction and represent costs that were incurred to restructure and integrate two businesses as a result of the acquisition decision. For additional clarity, only transaction costs, additional depreciation
and restructuring and integration activities that are associated with a business combination or a net-asset acquisition are included in acquisition-related costs. We have made no adjustments for the resulting synergies.   
  We believe that viewing income prior to considering these charges provides investors with a useful additional perspective because the significant costs incurred in
a business combination result primarily from the need to eliminate duplicate assets, activities or employees  a natural result of acquiring a fully integrated set of activities. For this reason, we believe that the costs incurred to
convert disparate systems, to close duplicative facilities or to eliminate duplicate positions (for example, in the context of a business combination) can be viewed differently from those costs incurred in other, more normal, business contexts.
     The integration and restructuring costs associated with a business combination may occur over several years, with the more significant impacts ending
within three years of the transaction. Because of the need for certain external approvals for some actions, the span of time needed to achieve certain restructuring and integration activities can be lengthy. For example, due to the highly regulated
nature of the pharmaceutical business, the closure of excess facilities can take several years, as all manufacturing changes are subject to extensive validation and testing and must be approved by the FDA and/or other global regulatory authorities.
      Discontinued Operations       Adjusted income is
calculated prior to considering the results of operations included in discontinued operations, as well as any related gains or losses on the sale of such operations. We believe that this presentation is meaningful to investors because, while we
review our businesses and product lines for strategic fit with our operations, we do not build or run our businesses with the intent to sell them.   
   Certain Significant Items       Adjusted income is calculated
prior to considering certain significant items. Certain significant items represent substantive, unusual items that are evaluated on an individual basis. Such evaluation considers both the quantitative and the qualitative aspect of their unusual
nature. Unusual, in this context, may represent items that are not part of our ongoing business; items that, either as a result of their nature or size, we would not expect to occur as part of our normal business on a regular basis; items that would
be non-recurring; or items that relate to products we no longer sell. While not all-inclusive, examples of items that could be included as certain significant items would be a major non-acquisition-related restructuring charge and associated
implementation costs for a program that is specific in nature with a defined term, such as those related to our non-acquisition-related cost-reduction initiatives; charges related to certain sales or disposals of products or facilities that do not
qualify as discontinued operations as defined by U.S. GAAP; amounts associated with transition service agreements in support of discontinued operations after sale; certain intangible asset impairments; adjustments related to the resolution of
certain tax positions; the impact of adopting certain significant, event-  

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            
driven tax legislation; net interest expense incurred through the consummation date of the acquisition of Wyeth on acquisition-related borrowings made prior to that date; or possible charges
related to legal matters, such as certain of those discussed in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies,  in  Legal Proceedings  in our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in  Part
II  Other Information; Item 1. Legal Proceedings  in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filings. Normal, ongoing defense costs of the Company or settlements and accruals on legal matters made in the normal course of our business
would not be considered certain significant items.       Reconciliation       A reconciliation of  Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. , as reported under U.S. GAAP to Adjusted income follows:       

(a)   
    The effective tax rate on Adjusted income was 29.8% in 2010, 29.5% in 2009 and 22.0% in 2008. The higher tax rate on Adjusted income in 2010 is primarily due to,
the change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings and the write-off of the deferred tax asset of approximately $270 million related to the Medicare Part D subsidy for retiree prescription drug coverage resulting from changes in the U.S. Healthcare
Legislation concerning the tax treatment of that subsidy effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2012, partially offset by the extension of the U.S. research and development credit and $460 million in tax benefits for the
resolution of certain tax positions pertaining to prior years with various foreign tax authorities.      

*  
  Calculation not meaningful.        Certain amounts and percentages may
reflect rounding adjustments.      A reconciliation of Reported diluted EPS as reported under U.S. GAAP to Adjusted diluted EPS follows:   

(a)   
    Reported and Adjusted diluted earnings per share in 2010 and 2009 were impacted by the increased number of shares outstanding in comparison with 2008, resulting
primarily from shares issued to partially fund the Wyeth acquisition.      

*  
  Calculation not meaningful.        Certain amounts and percentages may
reflect rounding adjustments.   

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       

(a)   
    Included primarily in  Amortization of intangible assets  (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 12. Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets ).      

(  b  )   
    Included in Acquisition-related in-process research and development charges (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 3D. Other Significant
Transactions and Events: Acquisitions) .      

(c)   
    Included in  Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs  (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 4. Cost-Reduction
Initiatives and Acquisition-Related Costs ).      

(d)   
    Amount relates to certain actions taken as a result of our acquisition of Wyeth. Prior to the acquisition of Wyeth on October 15, 2009, additional
depreciation for asset restructuring related to our cost-reduction initiatives was classified as a certain significant item and included in implementation costs. For 2010, included in  Cost of sales  ($526 million),  Selling, informational
and administrative expenses  ($227 million) and  Research and development expenses  ($34 million). For 2009, included in  Cost of sales  ($31 million),  Selling, informational and administrative expenses  ($37 million) and
 Research and development expenses  ($13 million).      

(  e  )   
    Represents restructuring charges incurred for our cost-reduction initiatives prior to the acquisition of Wyeth on October 15, 2009. Included in
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs  (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 4. Cost-Reduction Initiatives and Acquisition-Related Costs ).      

(  f  )   
    Amounts relate to implementation costs incurred for our cost-reduction initiatives prior to the acquisition of Wyeth on October 15, 2009. Included in
 Cost of sales  ($144 million),  Selling, informational and administrative expenses  ($182 million),  Research and development expenses  ($78 million) and  Other deductions net  ($6 million) for 2009. Included in  Cost of
sales  ($745 million),  Selling, informational and administrative expenses  ($413 million),  Research and development expenses  ($433 million) and  Other deductions net  ($14 million) for 2008 (see Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements  Note 4. Cost-Reduction Initiatives and Acquisition-Related Costs ). Includes additional depreciation for asset restructuring of $160 million in 2009 and $786 million in 2008.      

(  g  )   
    Included in  Other deductions net.  For 2010, includes an additional $1.3 billion charge for asbestos litigation related to our wholly owned subsidiary
Quigley Company, Inc. (for additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies ). For 2008, includes approximately $2.3 billion in charges related to the resolution of certain
investigations concerning Bextra and various other products, and approximately $900 million in charges associated with the resolution of certain litigation involving our NSAID pain medicines (see Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements  Note 3C. Other Significant Transactions and Events: Legal Matters ).      

(  h  )   
    Included in  Other deductions  net . Includes interest expense on the senior unsecured notes issued in connection with our acquisition of Wyeth,
less interest income earned on the proceeds of the notes.      

(  i  )   
    Included in  Other deductions  net.  Asset impairment charges in 2010 primarily related to intangible assets acquired as part of our acquisition
of Wyeth and a charge related to an intangible asset associated with a legacy Pfizer product, Thelin (see also the  Other (Income)/Deductions  Net  section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements  Note 2. Acquisition of Wyeth  and  Note 3B. Other Significant Transactions and Events: Asset Impairment Charges).  2009 amounts primarily represent asset impairment charges associated with certain materials used in our
research and development activities that were no longer considered recoverable. 2008 amounts relate to asset impairment charges and other associated costs primarily related to certain equity investments and the exit of our Exubera product.

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       

(  j  )   
    Included in  Cost of sales  (see also the  Costs and Expenses  Cost of Sales  section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements  Note 10. Inventories).       

(  k  )   
    Included in  Revenues  and reflects an adjustment to the prior years  liabilities for product returns (see Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements  Note 3F. Other Significant Transactions and Events: Adjustment of Prior Years  Liabilities for Product Returns ).      

(l)   
    Included in  Other deductions  net  and represents a gain related to ViiV, a new equity method investment (see Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements  Note 3E. Other Significant Transactions and Events: Equity Method Investments).       

(  m  )   
    In 2008, these charges primarily relate to the exit of a manufacturing plant in Italy and are included in  Other deductions net 

(n  )   
    Included in  Provision for taxes on income.  Includes a $2.0 billion tax benefit recorded in the fourth quarter of 2010 as a result of a settlement of
certain audits covering the years 2002   2005 (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 3A. Other Significant Transactions and Events: Tax Audit Settlements).  Amounts in 2009 include tax benefits of approximately $556
million related to the sale of one of our biopharmaceutical companies, Vicuron, which were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2009, and tax benefits of approximately $174 million related to the final resolution of the investigations concerning Bextra
and various other products referred to above in footnote (g) to this table, which were recorded in the third quarter of 2009. This resolution resulted in the receipt of information that raised our assessment of the likelihood of prevailing on
the technical merits of our tax position. 2008 includes tax benefits of approximately $426 million related to the sale of one of our biopharmaceutical companies (Esperion Therapeutics, Inc.).      
    Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources     
  Net Financial Liabilities, as shown below:       
    We rely largely on operating cash flows, short-term investments, short-term commercial paper borrowings and long-term debt to provide
for our liquidity requirements. We believe that we have the ability to obtain both short-term and long-term debt to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future. Due to our significant operating cash flows, including the impact on cash flows
of the anticipated cost savings from our cost-reduction initiatives, as well as our financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have the ability to meet
our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future which include:       

the working capital requirements of our operations, including our research and development activities;      

investments in our business;          

dividend payments and potential increases in the dividend rate;      

share repurchases, including our plan to repurchase approximately $5 billion of our common stock in 2011;      

the cash requirements associated with our productivity/cost-reduction initiatives;      

paying down outstanding debt;          

contributions to our pension and postretirement plans; and          

business-development activities.         Our long-term
debt is rated high quality by both Standard   Poor s and Moody s Investors Service. As market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. We have taken and will continue to take a conservative approach to our
financial investments. Both short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high-quality, highly liquid, well-diversified, available-for-sale debt securities. Our short-term and long-term loans are due from companies with highly rated
securities (Standard   Poor s ratings of mostly AA or better).      Total financial assets decreased during 2010 due to the repayment of
short-term borrowings and higher tax payments made in the first-quarter of 2010 associated mainly with certain business decisions executed to finance the Wyeth acquisition, partially offset by cash flows from operations.   

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             Credit Ratings       Two major corporate debt-rating organizations, Moody s Investors Service (Moody s)
and Standard   Poor s (S P), assign ratings to our short-term and long-term debt. The following chart reflects the current ratings assigned by these rating agencies to our commercial paper and senior unsecured non-credit-enhanced
long-term debt issued by us:       

COMMERCIAL     PAPER      

LONG-TERM DEBT  

DATE OF LAST ACTION  

NAME OF RATING AGENCY  

RATING  

OUTLOOK  

Moody s   

P-1      

A1  

Stable  

October 2009  

S P   

A1+      

AA  

Stable  

October 2009  

Debt Capacity       We have available
lines of credit and revolving credit agreements with a group of banks and other financial intermediaries. We maintain cash and cash equivalent balances and short-term investments in excess of our commercial paper and other short-term borrowings. As
of December 31, 2010, we had access to $9.0 billion of lines of credit, of which $1.9 billion expire within one year. Of these lines of credit, $8.4 billion are unused, of which our lenders have committed to loan us $7.0 billion at our request.
Also, $7.0 billion of our unused lines of credit, all of which expire in 2013, may be used to support our commercial paper borrowings.       Global
Economic Conditions       The challenging economic environment has not had, nor do we anticipate it will have, a significant impact on our liquidity. Due
to our significant operating cash flow, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable
future. As markets change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. There can be no assurance that the challenging economic environment or a further economic downturn would not impact our ability to obtain financing in the future.   

(a)  See  
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 9B. Financial Instruments: Investments in Debt and Equity Securities  for a description of investment
assets held, and also see  Note 9F. Financial Instruments: Credit Risk  for a description of credit risk related to our financial instruments held.      

(  c  )  Represents  
    total Pfizer Inc. shareholders  equity divided by the actual number of common shares outstanding (which excludes treasury shares and those held by our
employee benefit trust).         The increase in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments and loans, as of December 31, 2010,
compared to December 31, 2009, was primarily due to operating cash flows, partially offset by the use of proceeds of short-term investments for repayment of short-term borrowings and for tax payments made in 2010, associated mainly with certain
business decisions executed to finance the Wyeth acquisition. The change in working capital and the ratio of current assets to current liabilities was due to the timing of accruals, cash receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business. We
are monitoring developments regarding government receivables in several European markets. Where necessary, we will continue to adjust our allowance for doubtful accounts.      We funded our business-development transactions that closed in the fourth quarter of 2010 with available cash and the proceeds from short-term investments, and we did the same in connection with the completion of
our tender offer for the shares of King in January 2011. For additional information about these transactions, see the  Our Business Development Initiatives  section of this Financial Review.   

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
              Operating Activities         2010 vs. 2009       Our net cash provided by continuing operating activities was $11.5 billion in 2010, compared to $16.6 billion in 2009. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily attributable to:

income tax payments in 2010 of approximately $11.8 billion, primarily associated with certain business decisions executed to finance the Wyeth acquisition;
        partially offset by:       

the inclusion of operating cash flows from legacy Wyeth operations for a full year in 2010;      

the non-recurrence of payments in 2009 in connection with the resolution of certain legal matters related to Bextra and certain other products and our NSAID pain
medicines of approximately $3.2 billion (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   Note 3C. Other Significant Transactions and Events: Legal Matters ); and      

the timing of receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business.          2009 vs. 2008       Our net cash provided by continuing operating activities was $16.6 billion in 2009 compared to
$18.2 billion in 2008. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily attributable to:       

the payments made in connection with the resolution of certain legal matters related to Bextra and certain other products and our NSAID pain medicines of
approximately $3.2 billion (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   Note 3C. Other Significant Transactions and Events: Legal Matters ); and      

the timing of other receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business.         In 2010, the cash flow line item called  Inventories  reflects the significant fair value adjustments for inventory acquired from Wyeth that was sold in 2010; and the cash flow line item called  Other tax
accounts, net  reflects the tax payments made in connection with the increased tax costs associated with certain business decisions executed to finance the Wyeth acquisition.      In 2009, the cash flow line item called  Inventories  reflects the significant fair value adjustments for inventory acquired from Wyeth that was sold since the acquisition date of October 15, 2009; the
cash flow line item called  Accounts payable and other liabilities  reflects $3.2 billion in payments associated with the resolution of certain legal matters related to Bextra and various other products and our NSAID pain medicines more than
offset by the timing of accruals, receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business; and the cash flow line item called  Other tax accounts, net  reflects current taxes provided but not yet paid as of December 31, 2009 due to the
increased tax costs associated with certain business decisions executed to finance the Wyeth acquisition.      In 2008, the cash flow line item called
 Accounts payable and other liabilities  primarily reflects the $3.2 billion accrued in 2008 for the resolution of certain legal matters related to Bextra and various other products and our NSAID pain medicines but not yet paid as of
December 31, 2008.        Investing Activities         2010 vs. 2009       Our net cash used in investing activities was $492 million in 2010, compared to $31.3 billion in
2009. The decease in net cash used in investing activities was primarily attributable to:       

net proceeds from redemption and sales of investments of $23 million in 2010, which were used for repayment of short-term borrowings and for tax payments in
2010, compared to net proceeds from redemptions and sales of investments of $12.4 billion in 2009.          2009 vs. 2008    
  Our net cash used in investing activities was $31.3 billion in 2009 compared to $12.8 billion in 2008. The increase in net cash used in investing activities was
primarily attributable to:       

net cash paid for the acquisition of Wyeth,      
  partially offset by:       
    In 2008, the cash flow line item called  Other investing activities  primarily reflects a $1.2 billion payment by us upon the
redemption of a Swedish krona currency swap. In a related transaction, this payment was offset by the receipt of cash in our operating activities.   

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
              Financing Activities         2010 vs. 2009       Our net cash used in financing activities was $11.2 billion in 2010 compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $14.5 billion in 2009. The change in financing cash flows was primarily attributable to:

net repayments of borrowings of $4.2 billion in 2010, compared to net proceeds from borrowings of $20.1 billion in 2009, primarily reflecting the proceeds from
our issuance of $13.5 billion of senior unsecured notes in the first quarter of 2009 and our issuance of approximately $10.5 billion of senior unsecured notes in the second quarter of 2009;      

2009 vs. 2008       Our net cash provided by financing activities was $14.5 billion in 2009 compared to net cash
used in financing activities of $6.6 billion in 2008. The change in cash activity for financing activities was primarily attributable to:       

net borrowings of $20.1 billion in 2009, primarily reflecting the proceeds from our issuance of $13.5 billion of senior unsecured notes in the first quarter of
2009 and the proceeds from our issuance of approximately $10.5 billion of senior unsecured notes in the second quarter of 2009 compared to net borrowings of $2.4 billion in 2008;      

On June 23, 2005, we announced that the Board of Directors authorized a $5 billion share-purchase plan (the  2005 Stock Purchase Plan ). On
June 26, 2006, we announced that the Board of Directors increased the authorized amount of shares to be purchased under the 2005 Stock Purchase Plan from $5 billion to $18 billion. On January 23, 2008, we announced that the Board of
Directors authorized a new $5 billion share-purchase plan (the  2008 Stock Purchase Plan ), to be funded by operating cash flows that may be utilized from time to time. In total under the 2005 and 2008 Stock Purchase Plans, through
December 31, 2010, we have purchased approximately 771 million shares for approximately $19.5 billion. We purchased approximately 61 million shares of our common stock in 2010, and we did not purchase any shares of our common stock in
2009.      On February 1, 2011 we announced that the Board of Directors authorized a new $5 billion share-repurchase plan, which, together with the
balance remaining under the 2008 Stock Purchase Plan, increased our total current authorization to $9 billion. During 2011, we anticipate repurchasing approximately $5 billion of our common stock, with the remaining authorized amount available in
2012 and beyond.      Contractual Obligations       Payments
due under contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010, mature as follows:       

(  a  )   
    Our long-term debt obligations include both our expected principal and interest obligations. Our calculations of expected interest payments incorporate only
current period assumptions for interest rates, foreign currency translation rates and hedging strategies (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 9. Financial Instruments ). Long-term debt consists of senior unsecured notes
including fixed and floating rate, foreign currency denominated, and other notes.      

(  b  )   
    Includes expected payments relating to our unfunded U.S. supplemental (non-qualified) pension plans, postretirement plans and deferred compensation plans.

(c)   
    Includes operating and capital lease obligations.      

(d)   
    Includes agreements to purchase goods and services that are enforceable and legally binding and includes amounts relating to advertising, information technology
services, employee benefit administration services, and potential milestone payments deemed reasonably likely to occur.      

(e)   
    Except for amounts reflected in  Income taxes payable , we are unable to predict the timing of tax settlements, as tax audits can involve complex issues and
the resolution of those issues may span multiple years, particularly if subject to negotiation or litigation.         The above table excludes
amounts for potential milestone payments under collaboration, licensing or other arrangements unless the payments are deemed reasonably likely to occur. Payments under these agreements generally become due and payable only upon the achievement of
certain development, regulatory and/or commercialization milestones, which may span several years and which may never occur.   

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            In 2011, we expect to spend approximately $1.7 billion on property, plant and equipment. Planned capital spending mostly represents investment to maintain existing facilities and capacity. We rely largely on
operating cash flow to fund our capital investment needs. Due to our significant operating cash flows, we believe we have the ability to meet our capital investment needs and anticipate no delays to planned capital expenditures.   
   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements       In the ordinary course of
business and in connection with the sale of assets and businesses, we often indemnify our counterparties against certain liabilities that may arise in connection with a transaction or that are related to activities prior to a transaction. These
indemnifications typically pertain to environmental, tax, employee and/or product-related matters, and patent-infringement claims. If the indemnified party were to make a successful claim pursuant to the terms of the indemnification, we would be
required to reimburse the loss. These indemnifications generally are subject to threshold amounts, specified claim periods and other restrictions and limitations. Historically, we have not paid significant amounts under these provisions and, as of
December 31, 2010, recorded amounts for the estimated fair value of these indemnifications are not significant.      Certain of our co-promotion or
license agreements give our licensors or partners the rights to negotiate for, or in some cases to obtain under certain financial conditions, co-promotion or other rights in specified countries with respect to certain of our products.   
   Dividends on Common Stock       We declared
dividends of $6.1 billion in 2010 and $5.5 billion in 2009 on our common stock. In December 2010, our Board of Directors declared a first-quarter 2011 dividend of $0.20 per share, payable on March 1, 2011, to shareholders of record at the close
of business on February 4, 2011. The first-quarter 2011 cash dividend will be our 289 th  consecutive quarterly dividend.   
  Our current and projected dividends provide a return to shareholders while maintaining sufficient capital to invest in growing our businesses and increasing
shareholder value. Our dividends are not restricted by debt covenants. While the dividend level remains a decision of Pfizer s Board of Directors and will continue to be evaluated in the context of future business performance, we currently
believe that we can support future annual dividend increases, barring significant unforeseen events.        New Accounting Standards     
   Recently Adopted Accounting Standards         See Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements   Note 1B. Significant Accounting Policies: New Accounting Standards.        Recently Issued Accounting
Standards, Not Adopted as of December 31, 2010       In December 2010, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that provides guidance on the
recognition and presentation of the annual fee to be paid by pharmaceutical companies beginning on January 1, 2011 to the U.S. Treasury as a result of U.S. Healthcare Legislation. As a result of adopting this new standard, beginning on
January 1, 2011, we will record the annual fee as an operating expense in our consolidated statements of income. The provisions of this standard will not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.   
  In October 2009, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that addresses the accounting for multiple-deliverable arrangements to enable companies to account
for certain products or services separately rather than as a combined unit. This update addresses how to separate deliverables and how to measure and allocate arrangement consideration to one or more units of accounting through the use of a selling
price hierarchy to determine the selling price of a deliverable. The provisions of the new standard were adopted January 1, 2011, and we do not expect the provisions of this standard to have a significant impact on our consolidated financial
statements.        Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results     
  The SEC encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company s future prospects and make informed
investment decisions. This report and other written or oral statements that we make from time to time contain such forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management s plans and assumptions. Such forward-looking
statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. We have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as  will,   anticipate,   estimate,   expect,   project, 
 intend,   plan,   believe,   target,   forecast,  and other words and terms of similar meaning or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial
performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, and share-repurchase and dividend-rate plans. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, prospective products
or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, share-repurchase and dividend-rate
plans, and financial results, including, in particular, the financial guidance and targets and anticipated cost savings set forth in the  Cost-Reduction and Productivity Initiatives and Related Costs ,  Our Financial Guidance for
2011  and  Our Financial Targets for 2012  sections of this Financial Review. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past and projected future results are the following:   

Success of research and development activities including, without limitation, the ability to meet anticipated clinical trial completion dates, regulatory
submission and approval dates, and launch dates for product candidates;          

Decisions by regulatory authorities regarding whether and when to approve our drug applications, as well as their decisions regarding labeling, ingredients and
other matters that could affect the availability or commercial potential of our products;          

Speed with which regulatory authorizations, pricing approvals and product launches may be achieved;      

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       

Success of external business-development activities;          

Competitive developments, including the impact on our competitive position of new product entrants, in-line branded products, generic products, private label
products and product candidates that treat diseases and conditions similar to those treated by our in-line products and product candidates;          

Ability to meet generic and branded competition after the loss of patent protection for our products or competitor products;      

Ability to successfully market both new and existing products domestically and internationally;      

Difficulties or delays in manufacturing;          

Trade buying patterns;          

Impact of existing and future legislation and regulatory provisions on product exclusivity;      

Trends toward managed care and healthcare cost containment;          

Impact of U.S. healthcare legislation enacted in 2010 the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education
Reconciliation Act and of any modification, repeal or invalidation of any of the provisions thereof;          

U.S. legislation or regulatory action affecting, among other things, pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement or access, including under Medicaid, Medicare
and other publicly funded or subsidized health programs; the importation of prescription drugs from outside the U.S. at prices that are regulated by governments of various foreign countries; direct-to-consumer advertising and interactions with
healthcare professionals; and the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on the cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and
restricts access to innovative medicines;          

Legislation or regulatory action in markets outside the U.S. affecting pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement or access;      

Contingencies related to actual or alleged environmental contamination;      

Claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety or efficacy of in-line products and product candidates;      

Significant breakdown, infiltration or interruption of our information technology systems and infrastructure;      

Legal defense costs, insurance expenses, settlement costs and the risk of an adverse decision or settlement related to product liability; patent protection;
government investigations; consumer, commercial, securities, environmental and tax issues; ongoing efforts to explore various means for resolving asbestos litigation; and other legal proceedings;      

Ability to protect our patents and other intellectual property both domestically and internationally;      

Interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;          

Governmental laws and regulations affecting domestic and foreign operations including, without limitation, tax obligations and changes affecting the tax
treatment by the U.S. of income earned outside the U.S. that result from the enactment in August 2010 of the Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act of 2010 and that may result from pending and possible future proposals;

Changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles;          

Uncertainties related to general economic, political, business, industry, regulatory and market conditions, including, without limitation, uncertainties related
to the impact on us, our lenders, our customers, our suppliers and counterparties to our foreign-exchange and interest-rate agreements of challenging global economic conditions and recent and possible future changes in global financial markets;

Any changes in business, political and economic conditions due to actual or threatened terrorist activity in the U.S. and other parts of the world and related
U.S. military action overseas;          

Growth in costs and expenses;          

Changes in our product, segment and geographic mix; and          

Impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, product recalls and withdrawals and other unusual items, including our ability to successfully implement
our announced plans regarding the Company s research and development function, including the planned exit from the Company s Sandwich, U.K. site, subject to works council and union consultations, as well as our ability to realize the
projected benefits of our acquisitions of Wyeth and King and of our cost-reduction initiatives, including those related to the Wyeth integration and to our research and development function.      
  We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of
anticipated results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from
past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements.         

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on
related subjects in our Form 10-Q, 8-K and 10-K reports and our other filings with the SEC.      Certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions are discussed
here and under the heading entitled  Risk Factors  in Item 1A. of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, which will be filed in February 2011. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete set of all potential risks or
uncertainties.      This report includes discussion of certain clinical studies relating to various in-line products and/or product candidates. These studies
typically are part of a larger body of clinical data relating to such products or product candidates, and the discussion herein should be considered in the context of the larger body of data. In addition, clinical trial data are subject to differing
interpretations, and, even when we view data as sufficient to support the safety and/or effectiveness of a product candidate or a new indication for an in-line product, regulatory authorities may not share our views and may require additional data
or may deny approval altogether.       Financial Risk Management       The overall objective of our financial risk management program is to seek to minimize the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and interest rate movements on our earnings. We manage these financial exposures
through operational means and by using various financial instruments. These practices may change as economic conditions change.       Foreign Exchange
Risk  A significant portion of our revenues and earnings is exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. We seek to manage our foreign exchange risk in part through operational means, including managing same-currency revenues in relation to
same-currency costs and same-currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities.      Foreign exchange risk is also managed through the use of foreign
currency forward-exchange contracts. These contracts are used to offset the potential earnings effects from mostly intercompany short-term foreign currency assets and liabilities that arise from operations. Foreign currency swaps are used to offset
the potential earnings effects from foreign currency debt. We also use foreign currency forward-exchange contracts and foreign currency swaps to hedge the potential earnings effects from short-term and long-term foreign currency investments,
third-party loans and intercompany loans.      In addition, under certain market conditions, we protect against possible declines in the reported net
investments of our Japanese yen and, prior to 2009, Swedish krona and certain euro functional-currency subsidiaries. In these cases, we use currency swaps or foreign currency debt.      Our financial instrument holdings at year-end were analyzed to determine their sensitivity to foreign exchange rate changes. The fair values of these instruments were determined using various methodologies. For
additional details, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 9A. Financial Instruments: Selected Financial Assets and Liabilities.  In this sensitivity analysis, we assumed that the change in one currency s rate relative
to the U.S. dollar would not have an effect on other currencies  rates relative to the U.S. dollar; all other factors were held constant.      If the
dollar were to devalue against all other currencies by 10%, the expected adverse impact on net income related to our financial instruments would be immaterial. For additional details, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 9E.
Financial Instruments: Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities .       Interest Rate Risk  Our U.S. dollar interest-bearing
investments, loans and borrowings are subject to interest rate risk. We also are subject to interest rate risk on euro debt, investments and currency swaps, U.K. debt and currency swaps, Japanese yen short and long-term borrowings and currency
swaps, and, prior to 2009, Swedish krona currency swaps. We seek to invest, loan and borrow primarily on a short-term or variable-rate basis. From time to time, depending on market conditions, we will fix interest rates either through entering into
fixed-rate investments and borrowings or through the use of derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps. In light of current market conditions, our current borrowings are primarily on a long-term, fixed-rate basis. We may
change this practice as market conditions change.      Our financial instrument holdings at year-end were analyzed to determine their sensitivity to interest
rate changes. The fair values of these instruments were determined using various methodologies. For additional details, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 9A. Financial Instruments: Selected Financial Assets and
Liabilities . In this sensitivity analysis, we used a one hundred basis point parallel shift in the interest rate curve for all maturities and for all instruments; all other factors were held constant. If there were a one hundred basis point
decrease in interest rates, the expected adverse impact on net income related to our financial instruments would be immaterial.       Legal Proceedings and
Contingencies       We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial, securities, environmental
and tax litigations and claims; government investigations; and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. We do not believe any of them will have a material adverse effect on our financial position
(see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies).       We record accruals for income tax
contingencies to the extent that we conclude that a tax position is not sustainable under a  more likely than not  standard and we record our estimate of the potential tax benefits in one tax jurisdiction that could result from the payment
of income taxes in another tax jurisdiction when we conclude that the potential recovery is more likely than not (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Note 1P. Significant Accounting Policies: Deferred Tax Assets and Income Tax 

Financial Review    
  Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            
 Contingencies ). We also evaluate tax matters that are sustainable under the  more-likely-than-not  standard in determining our accruals for income tax contingencies. We record
accruals for all other contingencies to the extent that we conclude their occurrence is probable and the related damages are estimable, and we record anticipated recoveries under existing insurance contracts when assured of recovery. If a range of
liability is probable and estimable and some amount within the range appears to be a better estimate than any other amount within the range, we accrue that amount. If a range of liability is probable and estimable and no amount within the range
appears to be a better estimate than any other amount within the range, we accrue the minimum of such probable range. Many claims involve highly complex issues relating to causation, label warnings, scientific evidence, actual damages and other
matters. Often these issues are subject to substantial uncertainties and, therefore, the probability of loss and an estimation of damages are difficult to ascertain. Consequently, we cannot reasonably estimate the maximum potential exposure or the
range of possible loss in excess of amounts accrued for these contingencies. These assessments can involve a series of complex judgments about future events and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions (see Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements  Note 1C. Significant Accounting Policies: Estimates and Assumptions ). Our assessments are based on estimates and assumptions that have been deemed reasonable by management. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive
verdicts do occur. Although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular
period.      Patent claims include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. Although we believe we have
substantial defenses to these challenges with respect to all our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the drug at issue,
which could lead to a significant loss of sales of that drug and could materially affect future results of operations.   

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    
       
         Management s Report    
  We prepared and are responsible for the financial statements that appear in our 2010 Financial Report. These financial statements are in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America and, therefore, include amounts based on informed judgments and estimates. We also accept responsibility for the preparation of other financial information that is included in this
document.       Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       The management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934. The Company s internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. The Company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk
that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2010. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control Integrated Framework. Based on our assessment
and those criteria, management believes that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010.   
  The Company s independent auditors have issued their auditors  report on the Company s internal control over financial reporting. That report appears
in our 2010 Financial Report under the heading,  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.    

Ian Read       President and Chief
Executive Officer       

Frank A. D Amelio   
     
   Loretta V. Cangialosi    
 
  Principal Financial Officer  
     
  Principal Accounting Officer        February 28, 2011    

Audit Committee Report        
            The Audit Committee reviews the Company s financial reporting process on behalf of the Board of Directors. Management has the primary responsibility for the financial statements and the reporting process,
including the system of internal controls.      In this context, the Committee has met and held discussions with management and the independent registered
public accounting firm regarding the fair and complete presentation of the Company s results and the assessment of the Company s internal control over financial reporting. The Committee has discussed significant accounting policies applied
by the Company in its financial statements, as well as alternative treatments. Management has represented to the Committee that the Company s consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America, and the Committee has reviewed and discussed the consolidated financial statements with management and the independent registered public accounting firm. The Committee has discussed with the independent
registered public accounting firm matters required to be discussed by Statement on Auditing Standards No. 114, as adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board in Rule 3200T.      In addition, the Committee has reviewed and discussed with the independent registered public accounting firm the auditor s independence from the Company and its management. As part of that review, the
Committee has received the written disclosures and the letter required by applicable requirements of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding the independent accountant s communications with the Audit Committee concerning
independence, and the Committee has discussed the independent registered public accounting firm s independence from the Company.      The Committee also
has considered whether the independent registered public accounting firm s provision of non-audit services to the Company is compatible with the auditor s independence. The Committee has concluded that the independent registered public
accounting firm is independent from the Company and its management.      As part of its responsibilities for oversight of the Company s Enterprise Risk
Management process, the Committee has reviewed and discussed Company policies with respect to risk assessment and risk management, including discussions of individual risk areas as well as an annual summary of the overall process.   
  The Committee has discussed with the Company s Internal Audit Department and independent registered public accounting firm the overall scope of and plans for
their respective audits. The Committee meets with the Chief Internal Auditor, Chief Compliance Officer and representatives of the independent registered public accounting firm, in regular and executive sessions to discuss the results of their
examinations, the evaluations of the Company s internal controls, and the overall quality of the Company s financial reporting and compliance programs.      In reliance on the reviews and discussions referred to above, the Committee has recommended to the Board of Directors, and the Board has approved, that the audited financial statements be included in the
Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, for filing with the SEC. The Committee has selected, and the Board of Directors has ratified, the selection of the Company s independent registered public
accounting firm.   

W. Don Cornwell       Chair, Audit
Committee       February 28, 2011        The Audit
Committee Report does not constitute soliciting material, and shall not be deemed to be filed or incorporated by reference into any Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
except to the extent that the Company specifically incorporates the Audit Committee Report by reference therein.    

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the Consolidated Financial Statements
           
         The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Pfizer Inc.:    
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related
consolidated statements of income, shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion,
the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the results of their operations and their
cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies  internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated
February 28, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effective operation of the Company s internal control over financial reporting.      As
discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for business combinations in 2009 due to the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 141R, Business Combinations
(included in FASB ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations), as of January 1, 2009.   

KPMG LLP       New York, New York
      February 28, 2011    

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
           
         The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Pfizer Inc.:    
  We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established
in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies  management is responsible for maintaining effective
internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial
reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
     A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
     Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   
  In our opinion, Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).   
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Pfizer
Inc. and Subsidiary Companies as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010, and our
report dated February 28, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.   

KPMG LLP       New York, New York
      February 28, 2011    

Consolidated Statements of Income       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies         

(a)    
    Exclusive of amortization of intangible assets, except as disclosed in  Note 1L. Significant Accounting Policies: Amortization of Intangible Assets,
Depreciation and Certain Long-Lived Assets.          See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which are an integral part of these
statements.   

Consolidated Balance Sheets       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies         
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which are an integral part of these statements.   

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies         
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which are an integral part of these statements.   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies             
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which are an integral part of these statements.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             1. Significant Accounting Policies        A. Consolidation and Basis of Presentation    
  The consolidated financial statements include our parent company and all subsidiaries, including those operating outside the United States (U.S.) and are prepared
in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP). The decision whether or not to consolidate an entity requires consideration of majority voting interests, as well as effective economic or other
control over the entity. Typically, we do not seek control by means other than voting interests. For subsidiaries operating outside the U.S., the financial information is included as of and for the year ended November 30 for each year
presented. Substantially all unremitted earnings of international subsidiaries are free of legal and contractual restrictions. All significant transactions among our businesses have been eliminated. We made certain reclassification adjustments to
conform prior period amounts to the current presentation, primarily related to our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.      On October 15, 2009, we
completed our acquisition of Wyeth in a cash-and-stock transaction valued on that date at approximately $68 billion. Commencing from the acquisition date, our financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of
Wyeth. As a result, and in accordance with our domestic and international fiscal year-ends, our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009 reflect approximately two-and-a-half months of the fourth calendar quarter of
2009 in the case of Wyeth s U.S. operations and approximately one-and-a-half months of the fourth calendar quarter of 2009 in the case of Wyeth s international operations.       B. New Accounting Standards       The provisions of the following new accounting standards were adopted as of
January 1, 2010 and did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements:       

An amendment to the recognition and measurement guidance for the transfers of financial assets.      

An amendment to the guidelines for determining the primary beneficiary in a variable interest entity.      
  As of January 1, 2009, we adopted a new accounting standard that retains the purchase method of accounting for acquisitions but requires a number of changes
to that method, including changes in the way assets and liabilities are recognized in purchase accounting. Specifically, they require the capitalization of in-process research and development assets at fair value and require the expensing of
transaction costs as incurred. The adoption of these provisions did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements upon adoption, but they did significantly impact our accounting for the acquisition of Wyeth in 2009. For additional
information, see  Note 2. Acquisition of Wyeth .       C. Estimates and Assumptions       In preparing the consolidated financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and disclosures, including amounts recorded in connection with acquisitions. These estimates
and underlying assumptions can impact all elements of our financial statements. For example, in the consolidated statements of income, estimates are used when accounting for deductions from revenues (such as rebates, chargebacks, sales returns and
sales allowances), determining cost of sales, allocating cost in the form of depreciation and amortization, and estimating restructuring charges and the impact of contingencies. On the consolidated balance sheets, estimates are used in determining
the valuation and recoverability of assets, such as accounts receivables, investments, inventories, fixed assets and intangible assets (including acquired in-process research   development (IPR D) assets, beginning in 2009, and
goodwill), and estimates are used in determining the reported amounts of liabilities, such as taxes payable, benefit obligations, the impact of contingencies, rebates, chargebacks, sales returns and sales allowances, and restructuring reserves, all
of which also will impact the consolidated statements of income.      We regularly evaluate our estimates and assumptions using historical experience and
other factors, including the economic environment. Our estimates often are based on complex judgments, probabilities and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable but that are inherently uncertain and unpredictable.   
  As future events and their effects cannot be determined with precision, our estimates and assumptions may prove to be incomplete or inaccurate, or unanticipated
events and circumstances may occur that might cause us to change those estimates and assumptions. Market conditions, such as illiquid credit markets, volatile equity markets, dramatic fluctuations in foreign currency rates and economic downturn, can
increase the uncertainty already inherent in our estimates and assumptions. We adjust our estimates and assumptions when facts and circumstances indicate the need for change. Those changes generally will be reflected in our financial statements on a
prospective basis unless they are required to be treated retrospectively under the relevant accounting standard. It is possible that other professionals, applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances, could develop and support a
range of alternative estimated amounts. We also are subject to other risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ from estimated amounts, such as changes in the healthcare environment, competition, litigation, legislation and
regulations. These and other risks and uncertainties are discussed in the accompanying Financial Review, which is unaudited, under the headings  Our Operating Environment ,  Our Strategy  and  Forward-Looking Information and
Factors That May Affect Future Results  and in our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption, Part 1 Item 1A.  Risk Factors.    
   D. Contingencies       We and certain of our subsidiaries are
involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial, securities, environmental and tax litigations and claims; government investigations; and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our
business. Except for income tax contingencies, we record accruals for contingencies to the extent that we conclude their occurrence is probable and that the related liabilities are estimable, and we record anticipated recoveries under existing

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            
insurance contracts when assured of recovery. For tax matters, we record accruals for income tax contingencies to the extent that we conclude that a tax position is not sustainable under a
 more-likely-than-not  standard, and we record our estimate of the potential tax benefits in one tax jurisdiction that could result from the payment of income taxes in another tax jurisdiction when we conclude that the potential recovery
is more likely than not (see  Note 7D. Taxes on Income: Tax Contingencies).  We also evaluate tax matters that are sustainable under the  more-likely-than-not  standard in determining our accruals for income tax contingencies. We
consider many factors in making these assessments. Because litigation and other contingencies are inherently unpredictable and excessive verdicts do occur, these assessments can involve a series of complex judgments about future events and can rely
heavily on estimates and assumptions (see  Note 1C. Significant Accounting Policies: Estimates and Assumptions ).       E. Acquisitions
      Our consolidated financial statements include the operations of an acquired business after the completion of the acquisition. We account for
acquired businesses using the acquisition method of accounting. The acquisition method of accounting for acquired businesses requires, among other things, that most assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recognized at their estimated fair values
as of the acquisition date and that the fair value of acquired IPR D be recorded on the balance sheet. Also, transaction costs are expensed as incurred. Any excess of the purchase price over the assigned values of the net assets acquired is
recorded as goodwill. For acquisitions consummated prior to January 1, 2009, amounts allocated to IPR D were expensed at the date of acquisition. When we have acquired net assets that do not constitute a business under U.S. GAAP, no
goodwill has been recognized.      Contingent consideration is included within the acquisition cost and is recognized at its fair value on acquisition date.
A liability resulting from contingent consideration is remeasured to fair value at each reporting date until the contingency is resolved. Changes in fair value are recognized in earnings.       F. Fair Value       We often are required to measure certain assets and liabilities at fair value, either upon
initial measurement or for subsequent accounting or reporting. For example, we use fair value extensively in the initial measurement of net assets acquired in a business combination and when accounting for and reporting on certain financial
instruments. We estimate fair value using an exit price approach, which requires, among other things, that we determine the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly market. The determination of an
exit price is considered from the perspective of market participants, considering the highest and best use of assets and, for liabilities, assuming the risk of non-performance will be the same before and after the transfer. A single estimate of fair
value results from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and relies heavily on estimates and assumptions. When estimating fair value, depending on the nature and complexity of the asset or liability, we may use one or
all of the following approaches:       

Income approach, which is based on the present value of a future stream of net cash flows.      

Market approach, which is based on market prices and other information from market transactions involving identical or comparable assets or liabilities.

Cost approach, which is based on the cost to acquire or construct comparable assets less an allowance for functional and/or economic obsolescence.
        These fair value methodologies depend on the following types of inputs:   

Quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets (called Level 1 inputs).      

Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets or quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active
or are directly or indirectly observable (called Level 2 inputs).          

Unobservable inputs that reflect estimates and assumptions (called Level 3 inputs).          G. Foreign Currency Translation       For most of our international operations, local currencies have been
determined to be the functional currencies. We translate functional currency assets and liabilities to their U.S. dollar equivalents at rates in effect at the balance sheet date and record these translation adjustments in  Shareholders 
equity Accumulated other comprehensive (loss)/income . We translate functional currency statement of income amounts to their U.S. dollar equivalents at average rates for the period. The effects of converting non-functional currency assets
and liabilities into the functional currency are recorded in  Other deductions net .      For operations in highly inflationary economies, we
translate monetary items at rates in effect at the balance sheet date, with translation adjustments recorded in  Other deductions net , and non-monetary items at historical rates.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             H. Revenues        Revenue Recognition  We record revenues from product sales when the goods are shipped
and title passes to the customer. At the time of sale, we also record estimates for a variety of sales deductions, such as sales rebates, discounts and incentives, and product returns. When we cannot reasonably estimate the amount of future product
returns, we record revenues when the risk of product return has been substantially eliminated. We record sales of certain of our vaccines to the U.S. government as part of the Pediatric Vaccine Stockpile program; these rules require that for fixed
commitments made by the U.S. government, we record revenues when risk of ownership for the completed product has been passed to the U.S. government. There are no specific performance obligations associated with products sold under this program.
      Deductions from Revenues  As is typical in the biopharmaceutical industry, our gross product sales are subject to a variety of deductions
that generally are estimated and recorded in the same period that the revenues are recognized and primarily represent rebates and discounts to government agencies, wholesalers, distributors and managed care organizations with respect to our
pharmaceutical products. These deductions represent estimates of the related obligation and, as such, judgment and knowledge of market conditions and practices are required when estimating the impact of these sales deductions on gross sales for a
reporting period.      Specifically:       

In the U.S., we record provisions for pharmaceutical Medicaid, Medicare and contract rebates based upon our experience ratio of rebates paid and actual
prescriptions written during prior quarters. We apply the experience ratio to the respective period s sales to determine the rebate accrual and related expense. This experience ratio is evaluated regularly to ensure that the historical trends
are as current as practicable. As appropriate, we will adjust the ratio to better match our current experience or our expected future experience. In assessing this ratio, we consider current contract terms, such as changes in formulary status and
discount rates.          

Outside the U.S., the majority of our pharmaceutical rebates, discounts and price reductions are contractual or legislatively mandated, and our estimates are
based on actual invoiced sales within each period; both of these elements help to reduce the risk of variations in the estimation process. Some European countries base their rebates on the government s unbudgeted pharmaceutical spending, and we
use an estimated allocation factor (based on historical payments) and total revenues by country against our actual invoiced sales to project the expected level of reimbursement. We obtain third-party information that helps us to monitor the adequacy
of these accruals.          

Provisions for pharmaceutical chargebacks (primarily reimbursements to wholesalers for honoring contracted prices to third parties) closely approximate actual as
we settle these deductions generally within two to five weeks of incurring the liability.          

Provisions for pharmaceutical returns are based on a calculation at each market that incorporates the following, as appropriate: local returns policies and
practices; returns as a percentage of sales; an understanding of the reasons for past returns; estimated shelf life by product; an estimate of the amount of time between shipment and return or lag time; and any other factors that could impact the
estimate of future returns, such as loss of exclusivity, product recalls or a changing competitive environment. Generally, returned products are destroyed, and customers are refunded the sales price in the form of a credit.

We record sales incentives as a reduction of revenues at the time the related revenues are recorded or when the incentive is offered, whichever is later. We
estimate the cost of our sales incentives based on our historical experience with similar incentives programs.          

Our accruals for Medicaid rebates, Medicare rebates, performance-based contract rebates and chargebacks were $3.0 billion as of December 31, 2010, and $2.1
billion as of December 31, 2009, and substantially all are included in  Other current liabilities .         Taxes collected from
customers relating to product sales and remitted to governmental authorities are presented on a net basis; that is, they are excluded from  Revenues .       Collaborative Arrangements   Payments to and from our collaboration partners are presented in the statement of income based on the nature of the arrangement (including its contractual terms), the
nature of the payments and applicable accounting guidance. Under co-promotion agreements, we record the amounts received from our partners as alliance revenues, a component of  Revenues,  when our co-promotion partners are the principal in the
transaction and we receive a share of their net sales or profits. Alliance revenues are recorded when our co-promotion partners ship the product and title passes to their customers. The related expenses for selling and marketing these products are
included in  Selling, informational and administrative expenses.  In collaborative arrangements where we manufacture a product for our partner, we record revenues when our partner sells the product and title passes to its customer. All royalty
payments to collaboration partners are recorded as part of  Cost of sales .       I. Cost of Sales and Inventories    
  We value inventories at lower of cost or market. The cost of finished goods, work in process and raw materials is determined using average actual cost.   
   J. Selling, Informational and Administrative Expenses    
  Selling, informational and administrative costs are expensed as incurred. Among other things, these expenses include the costs of marketing, advertising, shipping
and handling, information technology and the associated employee compensation.      Advertising expenses relating to production costs are expensed as
incurred, and the costs of radio time, television time and space in publications are expensed when the related advertising occurs. Advertising expenses totaled approximately $4.0 billion in 2010, $2.9 billion in 2009 and $2.6 billion in 2008.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             K. Research and Development Expenses and Acquisition-Related In-Process Research and Development Charges       Prior
to January 1, 2009, when recording acquisitions, we expensed amounts related to acquired IPR D in  Acquisition-related in-process research and development charges . IPR D acquired after December 31, 2008, as part of a business
combination, is capitalized as  Identifiable intangible assets.  IPR D acquired as part of an asset acquisition is expensed as incurred.   
  Research and development (R D) costs are expensed as incurred. These expenses include the costs of our proprietary R D efforts, as well as costs incurred
in connection with certain licensing arrangements. Before a compound receives regulatory approval, we record upfront and milestone payments made by us to third parties under licensing arrangements as expense. Upfront payments are recorded when
incurred, and milestone payments are recorded when the specific milestone has been achieved. Once a compound receives regulatory approval, we record any milestone payments in  Identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization  and,
unless the assets are determined to have an indefinite life, we amortize them evenly over the remaining agreement term or the expected product life cycle, whichever is shorter.       L. Amortization of Intangible Assets, Depreciation and Certain Long-Lived Assets       Long-lived assets include:

Goodwill  Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred for an acquired business over the assigned values of its net assets.
Goodwill is not amortized.          

Identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization  These acquired assets are recorded at our cost. Intangible assets with finite lives are
amortized evenly over their estimated useful lives. Intangible assets with indefinite lives that are associated with marketed products are not amortized until a useful life can be determined. Intangible assets associated with IPR D projects are
not amortized until approval is obtained in a major market, typically either the U.S. or the European Union (EU), or in a series of other countries, subject to certain specified conditions and management judgment. The useful life of an amortizing
asset generally is determined by identifying the period in which substantially all of the cash flows are expected to be generated.          

Property, plant and equipment, less accumulated depreciation  These assets are recorded at our original cost and are increased by the cost of any
significant improvements after purchase. Property, plant and equipment assets, other than land and construction in progress, are depreciated evenly over the estimated useful life of the individual assets. Depreciation begins when the asset is ready
for its intended use. For tax purposes, accelerated depreciation methods are used as allowed by tax laws.         Amortization expense
related to finite-lived acquired intangible assets that contribute to our ability to sell, manufacture, research, market and distribute products, compounds and intellectual property are included in  Amortization of intangible assets  as they
benefit multiple business functions. Amortization expense related to intangible assets that are associated with a single function and depreciation of property, plant and equipment are included in  Cost of sales, Selling, informational and
administrative expenses  and  Research and development expenses,  as appropriate.      We review all of our long-lived assets for impairment
indicators throughout the year and we perform detailed testing whenever impairment indicators are present. In addition, we perform detailed impairment testing for goodwill and indefinite-lived assets at least annually. When necessary, we record
charges for impairments. Specifically:       

For finite-lived intangible assets, such as Developed Technology Rights, and for other long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment, whenever
impairment indicators are present, we perform a review for impairment. We calculate the undiscounted value of the projected cash flows associated with the asset, or asset group, and compare this estimated amount to the carrying amount. If the
carrying amount is found to be greater, we record an impairment loss for the excess of book value over fair value. In addition, in all cases of an impairment review, we re-evaluate the remaining useful lives of the assets and modify them, as
appropriate.          

For indefinite-lived intangible assets, such as Brands and IPR D assets, each year and whenever impairment indicators are present, we determine the fair
value of the asset and record an impairment loss for the excess of book value over fair value, if any. In addition, in all cases of an impairment review other than for IPR D assets, we re-evaluate whether continuing to characterize the asset as
indefinite-lived is appropriate.          

For goodwill, annually and whenever impairment indicators are present, we calculate the fair value of each reporting unit and compare the fair value to its book
value. If the carrying amount is found to be greater, we then determine the implied fair value of goodwill by subtracting the fair value of all the identifiable net assets other than goodwill from the fair value of the reporting unit and record an
impairment loss for the excess, if any, of book value of goodwill over the implied fair value.          M. Restructuring Charges and
Certain Acquisition-Related Costs       We may incur restructuring charges in connection with acquisitions when we implement plans to restructure and
integrate the acquired operations or in connection with cost-reduction initiatives that are initiated from time to time. Included in  Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs  are all restructuring charges and certain costs
associated with integrating an acquired business (if the restructuring action results in a change in the estimated useful life of an asset, that incremental impact is classified in  Cost of sales, Selling, informational and administrative expenses
 and  Research and development expenses , as appropriate). Termination costs are a significant component of our restructuring charges and are generally recorded when the actions are probable and estimable. Also, beginning in 2009,
transaction costs, such as banking, legal, accounting and other costs incurred in connection with an acquisition are expensed as incurred and included in  Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs.    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             N. Cash Equivalents and Statement of Cash Flows       Cash equivalents include items almost as liquid as cash, such
as certificates of deposit and time deposits with maturity periods of three months or less when purchased. If items meeting this definition are part of a larger investment pool, we classify them as  Short-term investments .   
  Cash flows associated with financial instruments designated as fair value or cash flow hedges may be included in operating, investing or financing activities,
depending on the classification of the items being hedged. Cash flows associated with financial instruments designated as net investment hedges are classified according to the nature of the hedge instrument. Cash flows associated with financial
instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment are classified according to their purpose and accounting nature.       O. Investments,
Loans and Derivative Financial Instruments       Many, but not all, of our financial instruments are carried at fair value. For example, substantially all
of our cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments are classified as available-for-sale securities and are carried at fair value, with changes in unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, reported in  Other comprehensive
income/(loss) . Derivative financial instruments are carried at fair value in various balance sheet categories (see  Note 9A. Financial Instruments: Selected Financial Assets and Liabilities ), with changes in fair value reported in current
earnings or deferred for qualifying hedging relationships. Virtually all of our valuation measurements for investments, loans and derivative financial instruments are based on the use of quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or
quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active or are directly or indirectly observable.      Realized gains or losses on
sales of investments are determined by using the specific identification cost method.      Investments where we have significant influence over the
financial and operating policies of the investee are accounted for under the equity method. Under the equity method, we record our share of the investee s income and expense in our income statements. The excess of the cost of the investment
over our share in the equity of the investee on acquisition date is allocated to the identifiable assets of the investee, with any remainder allocated to goodwill. Such investments are initially recorded at cost, which typically does not include
amounts of contingent consideration.      We regularly evaluate all of our financial assets for impairment. For investments in debt and equity securities,
when a decline in fair value, if any, is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded, and a new cost basis in the investment is established. For loans, an impairment charge is recorded if it is probable that we will not
be able to collect all amounts due according to the loan agreement.       P. Deferred Tax Assets and Income Tax Contingencies    
  We provide a valuation allowance when we believe that our deferred tax assets are not recoverable based on an assessment of estimated future taxable income that
incorporates ongoing, prudent and feasible tax-planning strategies.      We account for income tax contingencies using a benefit recognition model. If we
consider that a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon audit, based solely on the technical merits of the position, we recognize the benefit. We measure the benefit by determining the amount that is greater than 50% likely of
being realized upon settlement, presuming that the tax position is examined by the appropriate taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. Under the benefit recognition model, if our initial assessment fails to result in
the recognition of a tax benefit, we regularly monitor our position and subsequently recognize the tax benefit: (i) if there are changes in tax law, analogous case law or there is new information that sufficiently raise the likelihood of
prevailing on the technical merits of the position to more likely than not; (ii) if the statute of limitations expires; or (iii) if there is a completion of an audit resulting in a favorable settlement of that tax year with the appropriate
agency. We regularly re-evaluate our tax positions based on the results of audits of federal, state and foreign income tax filings, statute of limitations expirations, changes in tax law or receipt of new information that would either increase or
decrease the technical merits of a position relative to the  more-likely-than-not  standard. Liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions are classified as current only when we expect to pay cash within the next 12 months. Interest
and penalties, if any, are recorded in  Provision for taxes on income  and are classified on our consolidated balance sheet with the related tax liability.       Q. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans       We provide defined benefit pension plans for the majority of
employees worldwide. In the U.S., we have both qualified and supplemental (non-qualified) defined benefit plans, as well as other postretirement benefit plans, consisting primarily of healthcare and life insurance for retirees. We recognize the
overfunded or underfunded status of each of our defined benefit plans as an asset or liability on our consolidated balance sheet. The obligations generally are measured at the actuarial present value of all benefits attributable to employee service
rendered, as provided by the applicable benefit formula. Our pension and other postretirement obligations may include assumptions such as long-term rate of return on plan assets, expected employee turnover and participant mortality. For our pension
plans, the obligation may also include assumptions as to future compensation levels. For our other postretirement benefit plans, the obligation may include assumptions as to the expected cost of providing the healthcare and life insurance benefits,
as well as the extent to which those costs are shared with the employee or others (such as governmental programs). Plan assets are measured at fair value. Net periodic benefit costs are recognized, as required, into  Cost of sales, Selling,
informational and administrative expenses  and  Research and development expenses , as appropriate.       R. Share-Based Payments    
  Our compensation programs can include share-based payments. All grants under share-based payment programs are accounted for at fair value and these fair values
generally are amortized on an even basis over the vesting terms into  Cost of sales, Selling, informational and administrative expenses,  and  Research and development expenses , as appropriate.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             2. Acquisition of Wyeth        A. Description of the Transaction    
  On October 15, 2009 (the acquisition date), we acquired all of the outstanding equity of Wyeth in a cash-and-stock transaction, valued at the acquisition date
at approximately $68 billion, in which each share of Wyeth common stock outstanding, with certain limited exceptions, was canceled and converted into the right to receive $33.00 in cash without interest and 0.985 of a share of Pfizer common stock.
The stock component was valued at $17.40 per share of Wyeth common stock based on the closing market price of Pfizer s common stock on the acquisition date, resulting in a total merger consideration value of $50.40 per share of Wyeth common
stock.      Wyeth s core business was the discovery, development, manufacture and sale of prescription pharmaceutical products, including vaccines, for
humans. Other operations of Wyeth included the discovery, development, manufacture and sale of consumer healthcare products (over-the-counter products), nutritionals and animal health products. Our acquisition of Wyeth has made us a more diversified
health care company, with product offerings in human, animal, and consumer health, including vaccines, biologics, small molecules and nutrition, across developed and emerging markets. The acquisition of Wyeth also added to our pipeline of
biopharmaceutical development projects endeavoring to develop medicines to help patients in critical areas, including oncology, pain, inflammation, Alzheimer s disease, psychoses and diabetes.   
  In connection with the regulatory approval process, we were required to divest certain animal health assets. Certain of these assets were sold in 2009 and 2010. It
is possible that additional divestitures of animal health assets may be required based on ongoing regulatory reviews in other jurisdictions worldwide, but they are not expected to be significant to our business.   
   B. Fair Value of Consideration Transferred       The table below
details the consideration transferred to acquire Wyeth:       

(IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)  
      
  CONVERSION CALCULATION  

FAIR VALUE  

FORM OF CONSIDERATION  

Wyeth common stock outstanding as of the acquisition date   

1,339.6  

Multiplied by Pfizer s stock price as of the acquisition date multiplied by the  
  exchange ratio of 0.985 ($17.66 (a)  x
0.985)   
      
  $  
  17.40  

$  
  23,303  

Pfizer 
common stock (a),(b  )   

Wyeth common stock outstanding as of the acquisition date   

1,339.6  

Multiplied by cash consideration per common share outstanding   
      
  $  
  33.00  

44,208  

Cash  

Wyeth stock options canceled for a cash
payment (c)    

405  

Cash  

Wyeth restricted stock/restricted stock units and other equity-based awards  
  canceled for a cash payment   

320  

Cash  

Total fair value of consideration transferred   

$  
  68,236  

(a)    
    The fair value of Pfizer s common stock used in the conversion calculation represents the closing market price of Pfizer s common stock on the
acquisition date.      

(b)    
    Approximately 1.3 billion shares of Pfizer common stock, previously held as Pfizer treasury stock, were issued to former Wyeth shareholders. The excess of the
average cost of Pfizer treasury stock issued over the fair value of the stock portion of the consideration transferred to acquire Wyeth was recorded as a reduction to  Retained earnings .      

(c)    
    Each Wyeth stock option, whether or not vested and exercisable on the acquisition date, was canceled for a cash payment equal to the excess of the per share
value of the merger consideration (calculated on the basis of the volume-weighted average of the per share price of Pfizer common stock on the New York Stock Exchange Transaction Reporting System for the five consecutive trading days ending two days
prior to the acquisition date) over the per share exercise price of the Wyeth stock option.         Certain amounts may reflect rounding
adjustments.       C. Recording of Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed       The transaction has been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting which requires, among other things, that most assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recognized at their fair values as of the
acquisition date and that the fair value of acquired IPR D be recorded on the balance sheet.      While most assets and liabilities were measured at
fair value, a single estimate of fair value results from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and relies heavily on estimates and assumptions. Our judgments used to determine the estimated fair value assigned to each
class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially impact our results of operations.      The following table
summarizes the amounts recognized for assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date, as well as adjustments made in the first year after the acquisition date to the amounts initially recorded in 2009 (measurement period
adjustments). The measurement period adjustments did not have a significant impact on our earnings, balance sheets or cash flows in any period and, therefore, we have not retrospectively adjusted our financial statements.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            The following table summarizes the recording of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date:       

(b)    
    Includes cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivable, other current assets, assets held for sale, accounts payable and other current
liabilities.      

(c)    
    The measurement period adjustments were mainly recorded to reflect changes in the estimated fair value of certain intangible assets and inventories. These
adjustments were made largely to better reflect market participant assumptions about facts and circumstances existing as of the acquisition date. The measurement period adjustments did not result from intervening events subsequent to the acquisition
date.      

(d)    
    As of the acquisition date, included in  Taxes and other current assets  ($1.2 billion),  Taxes and other noncurrent assets  ($2.8 billion),  Income
taxes payable  ($500 million),  Other current liabilities  ($11.1 billion),  Noncurrent deferred tax liabilities  ($14.0 billion) and  Other taxes payable  ($2.1 billion, including accrued interest of $300 million). The measurement
period adjustments primarily reflect the tax impact of the pre-tax measurement period adjustments. The measurement period adjustments did not result from intervening events subsequent to the acquisition date.      

(e)    
    Goodwill recognized as of the acquisition date totaled $19,340 million for our Biopharmaceutical segment and $2,777 million for our Diversified segment.
        As of the acquisition date, the fair value of accounts receivable approximated book value acquired. The gross contractual amount
receivable was $4.2 billion, of which $140 million was not expected to be collected.      As part of the acquisition, we acquired liabilities for
environmental, legal and tax matters, as well as guarantees and indemnifications that Wyeth incurred in the ordinary course of business. These matters can include contingencies. Except as specifically excluded by the relevant accounting standard,
contingencies are required to be measured at fair value as of the acquisition date, if the acquisition-date fair value of the asset or liability arising from a contingency can be determined. If the acquisition-date fair value of the asset or
liability cannot be determined, the asset or liability would be recognized at the acquisition date if both of the following criteria were met: (i) it is probable that an asset existed or that a liability had been incurred at the acquisition
date, and (ii) the amount of the asset or liability can be reasonably estimated.       

Environmental Matters  In the ordinary course of business, Wyeth incurred liabilities for environmental matters such as remediation work, asset
retirement obligations and environmental guarantees and indemnifications. Virtually all liabilities for environmental matters, including contingencies, were measured at fair value and approximated $570 million as of the acquisition date.

Legal Matters  Wyeth was involved in various legal proceedings, including product liability, patent, commercial, environmental, antitrust matters and
government investigations, of a nature considered normal to its business (see  Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies ). Due to the uncertainty of the variables and assumptions involved in assessing the possible outcomes of events related
to these items, an estimate of fair value was not determinable. As such, these contingencies were measured under the same  probable and estimable  standard previously used by Wyeth. Liabilities for legal contingencies approximated $1.3
billion as of the acquisition date, which included the recording of additional adjustments of approximately $260 million for legal matters that we intended to resolve in a manner different from what Wyeth had planned or intended.

Tax Matters  In the ordinary course of business, Wyeth incurred liabilities for income taxes .  Income taxes are exceptions to both the
recognition and fair value measurement principles associated with the accounting for business combinations. Reserves for income tax contingencies continue to be measured under the benefit recognition model as previously used by Wyeth (see
 Note 1P. Significant Accounting Policies: Deferred Tax Assets and Income Tax Contingencies ). Net liabilities for income taxes approximated $23.7 billion as of the acquisition date, which included $1.8 billion for uncertain tax positions (not
including $300 million of accrued interest). The net tax liability included the recording of additional adjustments of approximately $14.4 billion for the tax impact of fair value adjustments and $10.5 billion for income tax matters that we intended
to resolve in a manner different from what Wyeth had planned or intended. For example, because we planned to repatriate certain overseas funds, we provided deferred taxes on Wyeth s unremitted earnings, as well as on certain book/tax basis
differentials related to investments in certain foreign subsidiaries for which no taxes had been previously provided by Wyeth as it was Wyeth s intention to permanently reinvest those earnings and investments.      

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            Goodwill is calculated as the excess of the consideration transferred over the net assets recognized and represents the future economic benefits arising from other assets acquired that could not be individually
identified and separately recognized. Specifically, the goodwill recorded as part of the acquisition of Wyeth includes the following:       

the expected synergies and other benefits that we believe will result from combining the operations of Wyeth with the operations of Pfizer;

any intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition, as well as future, as yet unidentified projects and products, and

the value of the going-concern element of Wyeth s existing businesses (the higher rate of return on the assembled collection of net assets versus if Pfizer
had acquired all of the net assets separately).         Goodwill is not amortized and is not deductible for tax purposes (see  Note 12.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  for additional information).       D. Actual and Pro Forma Impact of Acquisition    
  The following table presents information for Wyeth that is included in Pfizer s consolidated statements of income from the acquisition date, October 15,
2009, through Pfizer s domestic and international year-ends in 2009:       

(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)  
        
  WYETH S OPERATIONS INCLUDED IN PFIZER s 
2009 RESULTS  

Revenues   
        
   $   
   3,303   

Loss from continuing operations attributable to Pfizer Inc. common shareholders (a)    

(2,191   
   )     

(a)    
      Includes purchase accounting adjustments related to the fair value adjustments for
acquisition-date inventory that has been sold ($904 million pre-tax), amortization of identifiable intangible assets acquired from Wyeth ($512 million pre-tax), and restructuring charges and additional depreciation asset restructuring ($2.1
billion pre-tax).         The following table presents supplemental pro forma information as if the acquisition of Wyeth had occurred on
January 1, 2009 for the year ended December 31, 2009 and January 1, 2008 for the year ended December 31, 2008:       
    The unaudited pro forma consolidated results were prepared using the acquisition method of accounting and are based on the historical
financial information of Pfizer and Wyeth, reflecting both in 2009 and 2008 Pfizer and Wyeth results of operations for a 12 month period. The historical financial information has been adjusted to give effect to the pro forma events that are:
(i) directly attributable to the acquisition, (ii) factually supportable and (iii) expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results. The unaudited pro forma consolidated results are not necessarily indicative of what our
consolidated results of operations actually would have been had we completed the acquisition on January 1, 2009 and on January 1, 2008. In addition, the unaudited pro forma consolidated results do not purport to project the future results
of operations of the combined company nor do they reflect the expected realization of any cost savings associated with the acquisition. The unaudited pro forma consolidated results reflect primarily the following pro forma pre-tax adjustments:

Elimination of Wyeth s historical intangible asset amortization expense (approximately $88 million in the pre-acquisition period in 2009 and $79 million in
2008).          

Additional amortization expense (approximately $2.4 billion in 2009 and $2.9 billion in 2008) related to the fair value of identifiable intangible assets
acquired.          

Additional depreciation expense (approximately $200 million in 2009 and $266 million in 2008) related to the fair value adjustment to property, plant and
equipment acquired.          

Additional interest expense (approximately $316 million in 2009 and $1.2 billion in 2008) associated with the incremental debt we issued in 2009 to partially
finance the acquisition and a reduction of interest income (approximately $320 million in 2009 and $857 million in 2008) associated with short-term investments under the assumption that a portion of these investments would have been used to
partially fund the acquisition. In addition, a reduction in interest expense (approximately $129 million in 2009 and $163 million in 2008) related to the fair value adjustment of Wyeth debt.      

Elimination of $904 million incurred in 2009 related to the fair value adjustments to acquisition-date inventory that has been sold, which is considered
non-recurring. There is no long-term continuing impact of the fair value adjustments to acquisition-date inventory, and, as such, the impact of those adjustments is not reflected in the unaudited pro forma operating results for 2009 and 2008.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       

Elimination of $834 million of costs incurred in 2009, which are directly attributable to the acquisition, and which do not have a continuing impact on the
combined company s operating results. Included in these costs are advisory, legal and regulatory costs incurred by both legacy Pfizer and legacy Wyeth and costs related to a bridge term loan credit agreement with certain financial institutions
that has been terminated.         In addition, all of the above adjustments were adjusted for the applicable tax impact. The taxes associated
with the fair value adjustments for acquired intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and legacy Wyeth debt, as well as the elimination of the impact of the fair value step-up of acquired inventory reflect the statutory tax rates in the
various jurisdictions where the fair value adjustments occurred. The taxes associated with incremental debt to partially finance the acquisition reflect a 38.3% tax rate since the debt is an obligation of a U.S. entity and is taxed at the
combined effective U.S. federal statutory and state rate. The taxes associated with the elimination of the costs directly attributable to the acquisition reflect a 28.4% effective tax rate since the costs were incurred in the U.S. and were either
taxed at the combined effective U.S. federal statutory and state rate or not deductible for tax purposes depending on the type of expenditure.       3.
Other Significant Transactions and Events        A. Tax Audit Settlements       During the fourth quarter of 2010, we reached a settlement with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) related to issues we had appealed with respect to the audits of the Pfizer Inc. tax returns for the years 2002
through 2005, as well as the Pharmacia audit for the year 2003 through the date of merger with Pfizer (April 16, 2003). The IRS concluded its examination of the aforementioned tax years and issued a final Revenue Agent s Report (RAR). We agreed
with all of the adjustments and computations contained in the RAR. As a result of settling these audit years, in the fourth quarter of 2010, we reduced our unrecognized tax benefits by approximately $1.4 billion and reversed the related interest
accruals by approximately $600 million. During 2010, we also recognized $320 million in tax benefits and reversed the related interest accruals of $140 million resulting from the resolution of certain tax positions pertaining to prior years with
various foreign tax authorities as well as from the expiration of the statute of limitations. The aforementioned amounts had been classified in  Other taxes payable , and the corresponding tax benefit was recorded in  Provision for taxes on
Income  (see  Note 7.Taxes on Income ). In the second quarter of 2008, we effectively settled certain issues common among multinational corporations with various foreign tax authorities primarily relating to tax years 2000 to 2005. As a
result, we recognized $305 million in tax benefits in  Provision for taxes on income.        B. Asset Impairment Charges    
  During 2010 we recorded the following intangible asset impairment charges in  Other deductions   n  et  (see  Note 6. Other
(Income)/Deductions   net ):       

We recorded $1.8 billion in 2010 related to intangible assets, including certain IPR D and Brand intangible assets that were acquired as part of our
acquisition of Wyeth. These impairment charges primarily resulted from our updated estimate of the fair value of these assets, which was based upon updated forecasts, compared with their assigned fair values as of the Wyeth acquisition date,
October 15, 2009. Our updated forecasts of net cash flows for the impaired assets, reflect, among other things, the following: for IPR D assets, the impact of changes to the development programs, the projected development and regulatory
timeframes and the risk associated with these assets; for Brand assets, the current competitive environment and planned investment support; and, for Developed Technology Rights, an increased competitive environment.      

We recorded a charge of approximately $300 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 associated with our product Thelin, as a result of our decisions to
voluntarily withdraw Thelin in regions where it is approved and to discontinue clinical studies worldwide.         Of these amounts, about
$1.4 billion related to our Biopharmaceutical segment and about $700 million related to our Diversified segment.      Also, in the third quarter of 2010, we
recorded a $212 million write-off of Wyeth-related inventory in  Cost of sales  related to unfinished inventory acquired from Wyeth that became unusable after the acquisition date (which included a purchase accounting fair value adjustment of
$104 million).      In the fourth quarter of 2009, we recorded $417 million in asset impairment charges primarily associated with certain materials used in
our research and development activities that were no longer considered recoverable. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded $143 million in asset impairment charges related to certain equity investments and the exit of our Exubera product.
     For additional information on our accounting policy for reviewing long-lived assets for impairment, see  Note 1L. Significant Accounting Policies:
Amortization of Intangible Assets, Depreciation and Certain Long-Lived Assets.        C. Legal Matters    
   Asbestos Litigation Charge       We recorded additional charges of
$701 million in the third quarter of 2010 and $620 million in the fourth quarter of 2010, for asbestos litigation related to our wholly owned subsidiary, Quigley Company, Inc. (see  Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies  for additional
information).   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             Bextra and Certain Other Investigations       In January 2009, we entered into an agreement-in-principle with the
U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) to resolve previously reported investigations regarding past off-label promotional practices concerning Bextra, as well as certain other investigations. In connection with these actions, in the fourth quarter of
2008, we recorded a charge of $2.3 billion, pre-tax and after-tax, in  Other deductions   net  and such amount is included in O ther current liabilities  in 2008. In the third quarter of 2009, we reached final resolution of this
matter and no additional charge was recorded. The entire $2.3 billion was paid in 2009. We recorded a tax benefit of $174 million in the third quarter of 2009 as such resolution resulted in the receipt of information that raised our assessment of
the likelihood of prevailing on the technical merits of our tax position. In addition, in September 2009, we settled state civil consumer protection allegations related to our past promotional practices concerning Geodon and recorded a charge of $33
million.       Certain Product Litigation Celebrex and Bextra       In October 2008, we reached agreements-in-principle to resolve the pending U.S. consumer fraud purported class action cases and more than 90% of the known U.S. personal injury claims involving Celebrex and Bextra,
and we reached agreements to resolve substantially all of the claims of state attorneys general primarily relating to alleged Bextra promotional practices. In connection with these actions, in the third quarter of 2008, we recorded pre-tax charges
of approximately:       

$745 million applicable to all known U.S. personal injury claims;      

$89 million applicable to the pending U.S. consumer fraud purported class action cases; and      

$60 million applicable to agreements to resolve civil claims brought by 33 states and the District of Columbia, primarily relating to alleged Bextra promotional
practices. Under these agreements, we made a payment of $60 million to the states and have adopted compliance measures that complement policies and procedures previously established by us.      
  These litigation-related charges were recorded in 2008 in  Other deductions net . Virtually all of this amount was paid in 2009. During 2009, we recorded
approximately $170 million in insurance recoveries in  Selling, informational and administrative expenses .      We believe that the charges of
approximately $745 million will be sufficient to resolve all U.S. personal injury claims that were known at the time of the agreement-in-principle, including those that had not been settled at the time. However, additional charges may have to be
taken in the future in connection with certain pending claims and unknown claims relating to Celebrex.       D. Acquisitions    
   Acquisition of FoldRx Pharmaceuticals, Inc.       On
October 6, 2010, we completed our acquisition of FoldRx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (FoldRx), a privately-held drug discovery and clinical development company, whose portfolio includes clinical and preclinical programs for investigational compounds
to treat diseases caused by protein misfolding. FoldRx s lead product candidate, tafamidis meglumine, is in registration in both the U.S. and the EU as a first-in-class oral therapy for the treatment of transthyretin amyloid polyneuropathy
(ATTR-PN), a progressively fatal genetic neurodegenerative disease, for which liver transplant is the only treatment option currently available. The total consideration for the acquisition was approximately $400 million, which consisted of an
upfront payment to FoldRx s shareholders of about $200 million and contingent consideration with an estimated acquisition-date fair value of about $200 million. The contingent consideration consists of up to $455 million in additional payments
that are contingent upon the attainment of future regulatory and commercial milestones. In connection with this acquisition, we recorded an asset of approximately $500 million in  Identifiable intangible assets   in-process research and
development . The goodwill resulting from the acquisition was approximately $60 million.      The fair value of the contingent consideration of about
$200 million at the acquisition date was estimated by utilizing a probability weighted income approach. We started with an estimate of the probability weighted potential cash payments by year, based on our expectation as to when the future
regulatory and commercial milestones might be achieved, and then we discounted each of those projected payments to arrive as a present value amount. Subsequent to the acquisition date, we remeasure the contingent consideration liability at current
fair value at every reporting period with changes recorded in  Other deductions net  in our consolidated statements of income.       Other
Acquisitions       We completed the following additional acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2008:   

In the fourth quarter of 2008, we completed the acquisition of a number of animal health product lines from Schering-Plough Corporation (Schering-Plough) for
approximately $170 million.          

In the second quarter of 2008, we acquired Encysive Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Encysive), a biopharmaceutical company whose main product was Thelin (see  Note 3B.
Asset Impairment Charges ), through a tender offer, for approximately $200 million, including transaction costs. In addition, in the second quarter of 2008, we acquired Serenex, Inc. (Serenex), a privately held biotechnology company. In
connection with these acquisitions, we recorded approximately $170 million in  Acquisition-related in-process research and development charges  and approximately $450 million in intangible assets.      

In the first quarter of 2008, we acquired CovX, a privately held biotherapeutics company, and we acquired all the outstanding shares of Coley Pharmaceutical
Group, Inc. (Coley), a biopharmaceutical company. In connection with these and two smaller acquisitions related to Animal Health, we recorded approximately $440 million in  Acquisition-related in-process research and development charges  in
2008. In 2010, we recorded $125 million and in 2009 we recorded $68 million in  Acquisition-related in-process research and development charges  related to the resolution of certain contingencies and achievement of milestones associated with
CovX.      

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             E. Equity-Method Investments        Investment in Laborat rio Teuto Brasileiro, an Equity-Method Investment
      In the fourth quarter of 2010, we consummated our partnership to develop and commercialize generic medicines with Laborat rio Teuto
Brasileiro S.A. (Teuto) a leading generics company in Brazil. As part of the transaction, we acquired a 40 percent equity stake in Teuto, and entered into a series of commercial agreements. The partnership is expected to enhance our position in
Brazil, a key emerging market, by providing access to Teuto s portfolio of products. Through this partnership, we expect to also have access to significant distribution networks in rural and suburban areas in Brazil and the opportunity to
register and commercialize Teuto s products in various markets outside of Brazil. Under the terms of our purchase agreement with Teuto, we made an upfront payment at the closing of approximately $230 million (subject to certain post-closing
adjustments). In addition, Teuto will be eligible to receive a performance-based milestone payment from us in 2012 of up to approximately $200 million. We have an option to acquire the remaining 60 percent of Teuto s shares beginning in 2014,
and Teuto s shareholders have an option to sell their 60 percent stake to us beginning in 2015.      We are accounting for our interest in Teuto as an
equity method investment due to the significant influence we have over the operations of Teuto through our board representation, minority veto rights and 40% voting interest. Our investment in Teuto is reported as a private equity investment in
 Long-term investments and loans  in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2010. Our share of Teuto s income and expenses is recorded in  Other deductions   net .   
   Formation of ViiV, an Equity-Method Investment       In the fourth
quarter of 2009, we and GlaxoSmithKline plc (GSK) created a new company, ViiV Healthcare Limited (ViiV), which is focused solely on research, development and commercialization of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) medicines. Under the agreement, we
and GSK have contributed certain existing HIV-related products, pipeline assets and research assets to ViiV and will perform R D and manufacturing services. The R D Services Agreement provides that we will perform R D services for
pipeline and marketed products contributed by us and that such services be billed at our internal cost plus a profit margin. After two and a half years, either party may terminate this agreement with six months  notice. The Contract
Manufacturing Agreement provides that we will manufacture and supply products to ViiV for four years at a price that incorporates a profit margin. Prior to the agreed termination date, ViiV may terminate this agreement at any time with approximately
one-year s notice. Further, Pfizer and GSK have entered into a 3-year Research Alliance Agreement with ViiV under which each party, at its sole discretion, may conduct research programs in order to achieve Proof of Concept for an HIV Therapy
Compound. ViiV will have a right of first negotiation on compounds that reach Proof of Concept.      We recognized a gain of approximately $482 million in
connection with the formation, which was recorded in  Other deductions   net  in the fourth quarter of 2009. Since we currently hold a 15% equity interest in ViiV, we have an indirect retained interest in the contributed assets; as
such, 15% of the gain, or $72 million, is the portion of the gain associated with that indirect retained interest. In valuing our investment in ViiV (which includes the indirect retained interest in the contributed assets), we used discounted cash
flow techniques, utilizing an 11% discount rate and a terminal year growth factor of 3%.      We currently hold a 15% equity interest and GSK holds an 85%
equity interest in ViiV. The equity interests will be adjusted in the event that specified sales and regulatory milestones are achieved. Our equity interest in ViiV could vary from 9% to 30.5%, and GSK s equity interest could vary from 69.5% to
91%, depending upon the milestones achieved with respect to the original assets contributed to ViiV by us and by GSK. Each company also may be entitled to preferential dividend payments to the extent that specific sales thresholds are met in respect
of the marketed products and pipeline assets originally contributed.      We are accounting for our interest in ViiV as an equity method investment due to
the significant influence we have over the operations of ViiV through our board representation and minority veto rights. Our investment in ViiV is reported as a private equity investment in  Long-term investments and loans  in our consolidated
balance sheets as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. Our share of ViiV s income and expenses is recorded in  Other deductions net.    
   F. Adjustment of Prior Years  Liabilities for Product Returns       Revenues in 2008 include a reduction recorded in the third quarter of 2008 of $217 million, pre-tax, to adjust our prior years' liabilities for product returns. After a detailed review in 2008 of our returns
experience, we determined that our previous accounting methodology for product returns needed to be revised as the lag time between product sale and return was longer than we previously had assumed. Although fully recorded in 2008, virtually all of
the adjustment relates back several years.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             4. Cost-Reduction Initiatives and Acquisition-Related Costs       We have incurred significant costs in connection
with our cost-reduction initiatives (several programs initiated since 2005) and our acquisition of Wyeth on October 15, 2009.      Since the acquisition
of Wyeth, our cost-reduction initiatives that were announced on January 26, 2009 have been incorporated into a comprehensive plan to integrate Wyeth s operations, generate cost savings and capture synergies across the combined company. We
are focusing our efforts on achieving an appropriate cost structure for the combined company.      We incurred the following costs in connection with our
cost-reduction initiatives and the acquisition of Wyeth:       

(a)   
      Transaction costs represent external costs directly related to our acquisition of
Wyeth and primarily include expenditures for banking, legal, accounting and other similar services. Substantially all of the costs incurred in 2009 were fees related to a $22.5 billion bridge term loan credit agreement entered into with certain
financial institutions on March 12, 2009 to partially fund our acquisition of Wyeth. The bridge term loan credit agreement was terminated in June 2009 as a result of our issuance of approximately $24.0 billion of senior unsecured notes in the
first half of 2009.      

(b)   
    Integration costs represent external, incremental costs directly related to integrating acquired businesses and primarily include expenditures for consulting and
systems integration.      

(c)   
      Restructuring charges in 2010 are related to the integration of Wyeth. From the
beginning of our cost-reduction and transformation initiatives in 2005 through December 31, 2010,  Employee termination costs  represent the expected reduction of the workforce by approximately 49,000 employees, mainly in manufacturing,
sales and research, of which approximately 36,400 employees have been terminated as of December 31, 2010.  Employee termination costs  are generally recorded when the actions are probable and estimable and include accrued severance
benefits, pension and postretirement benefits, many of which may be paid out during periods after termination.  Asset impairments  primarily include charges to write down property, plant and equipment to fair value.  Other  primarily
includes costs to exit certain assets and activities. Substantially all of these restructuring charges are associated with our Biopharmaceutical segment.      

(d)   
    Additional depreciation  asset restructuring represents the impact of changes in the estimated useful lives of assets involved in restructuring
actions.      

(  e  )   
    Implementation costs for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, represent external, incremental costs directly related to implementing cost-reduction
initiatives prior to our acquisition of Wyeth, and primarily include expenditures related to system and process standardization and the expansion of shared services. For the year ended December 31, 2009, implementation costs are included in
 Cost of sales  ($42 million ), Selling, informational and administrative expenses  ($166 million),  Research and development expenses  ($36 million) and  Other deductions  net  ($6 million). For the year ended
December 31, 2008, implementation costs are included in  Cost of sales  ($149 million),  Selling, informational and administrative expenses  ($394 million),  Research and development expenses  ($262 million) and  Other
deductions  net  ($14 million).         The components of restructuring charges associated with all of our cost-reduction
initiatives and the acquisition of Wyeth follow:       

(  a  )   
      Includes adjustments for foreign currency translation.      

(  b  )   
    Included in O ther current liabilities  ($1.6 billion) and  Other noncurrent liabilities  ($652 million).      
   5. Collaborative Arrangements       In the normal course of
business, we enter into collaborative arrangements with respect to in-line medicines, as well as medicines in development that require completion of research and regulatory approval. Collaborative arrangements are contractual agreements with third
parties that involve a joint operating activity, typically a research and/or commercialization effort, where both we and our   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            
partner are active participants in the activity and are exposed to the significant risks and rewards of the activity. Our rights and obligations under our collaborative arrangements vary. For
example, we have agreements to co-promote pharmaceutical products discovered by us or other companies, and we have agreements where we partner to co-develop and/or participate together in commercializing, marketing, promoting, manufacturing and/or
distributing a drug product.      The amounts and classifications in our consolidated statements of income of payments (income/(expense)) between us and our
collaboration partners follow:       

(a)   
     Represents sales to our partners of products manufactured by us.      

(b)   
     Substantially all relate to amounts earned from our partners under co-promotion agreements.      

(c)   
     Primarily relates to royalties earned by our partners and cost of sales associated with inventory purchased from our partners.

(d)   
     Represents net reimbursements from our partners/(to our partners) for selling, informational and administrative expenses incurred.
     
    The amounts disclosed in the
above table do not include transactions with third parties other than our collaboration partners, or other costs associated with the products under the collaborative arrangements.       6. Other (Income)/Deductions Net       The following table sets forth details related to amounts recorded in
 Other deductions net :       

(  a)   
    Interest expense increased in 2010 due to our issuance of $13.5 billion of senior unsecured notes on March 24, 2009 and approximately $10.5 billion of
senior unsecured notes on June 3, 2009, primarily related to the acquisition of Wyeth, as well as the addition of legacy Wyeth debt. Interest income decreased in 2010 due to lower interest rates, coupled with lower average cash balances. Net
interest expense was $487 million in 2009 compared to net interest income of $772 million in 2008. Interest expense increased in 2009 due to the issuance of the senior unsecured notes discussed above, of which virtually all of the proceeds were used
to partially finance the Wyeth acquisition (see  Note 2. Acquisition of Wyeth ). Interest income decreased in 2009 due to lower interest rates, partially offset by higher average cash balances. Capitalized interest expense totaled $36 million
in 2010, $34 million in 2009 and $46 million in 2008.      

(  d  )   
    Legal matters, net in 2010 includes an additional $1.3 billion charge for asbestos litigation related to our wholly owned subsidiary, Quigley Company, Inc. In
2008, primarily includes charges of $2.3 billion related to the resolution of certain investigations concerning Bextra and various other products, and charges of $900 million related to our agreements and our agreements-in-principle to resolve
certain litigation and claims involving our non-steroidal anti-inflammatory (NSAID) pain medicines (see  Note 3C. Other Significant Transactions and Events: Legal Matters) .      

(e)   
    Represents a gain related to ViiV, an equity method investment, which is focused solely on research, development and commercialization of HIV medicines (see
 Note 3E. Other Significant Transactions and Events: Equity Method Investments).        

(f)   
    The asset impairment charges in 2010 are primarily related to (i) intangible assets acquired as part of our acquisition of Wyeth, including IPR D
assets, Brands and, to a lesser extent, Developed Technology Rights. ;  and (ii) an intangible asset associated with the legacy Pfizer product Thelin (see  Note 2. Acquisition of Wyeth  and  Note 3B. Other Significant Transactions
and Events: Asset Impairment Charges ) .  The 2009 amounts      

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       

primarily represent asset impairment charges associated with certain materials used in our research and development activities that were no longer considered recoverable. The 2008 amounts
primarily represent charges related to impairment of certain equity investments and the exit of our Exubera product.          7. Taxes on
Income        A. Taxes on Income        Income from
continuing operations before provision for taxes on income,  and  income attributable to noncontrolling interests  consist of the following:       
    The decrease in domestic loss from continuing operations before taxes in 2010, compared to 2009, was due to revenues from legacy Wyeth
products and a reduction in domestic restructuring charges partially offset by increased amortization charges primarily related to identifiable intangibles in connection with our acquisition of Wyeth and litigation charges primarily related to our
wholly owned subsidiary Quigley Company, Inc. The decrease in international income from continuing operations before taxes in 2010, compared to 2009, was due primarily to an increase in international restructuring and amortization charges plus the
non-recurrence of the gain in 2009 in connection with the formation of ViiV, partially offset by revenues from legacy Wyeth products.      The increase in
domestic loss from continuing operations before taxes in 2009, compared to 2008, was due primarily to an increase in certain expenses incurred in connection with the Wyeth acquisition, which was partially offset by the non-recurrence of charges of
$2.3 billion recorded in 2008 resulting from an agreement-in-principle with the DOJ to resolve the previously reported investigations regarding past off-label promotional practices concerning Bextra and certain other investigations, as well as other
litigation-related charges recorded in 2008 of approximately $900 million associated with the resolution of certain litigation involving our NSAID pain medicines. The increase in international income from continuing operations before taxes in 2009,
compared to 2008, was due primarily to the gain in connection with the formation of ViiV, the decrease in international restructuring charges and the non-recurrence of acquired IPR D, partially offset by an increase in amortization expenses
primarily related to identifiable intangibles incurred in connection with the Wyeth acquisition. For additional information on all of these matters, see  Note 3. Other Significant Transactions and Events.     
   Provision for taxes on income  consists of the following:       

(a)   
      The Federal current income tax benefit in 2010 is primarily due to the tax benefit
recorded in connection with our settlement with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. For a discussion of the settlement, see the  Tax Contingencies  section below.     

(b)   
      The Federal current income tax expense in 2009 was due to increased tax costs
associated with certain business decisions executed to finance the Wyeth acquisition.      

(c)   
      The Federal deferred income tax expense in 2010 is primarily due to certain business
decisions in connection with our acquisition of Wyeth.      

(d)   
      The Federal deferred income tax benefit in 2009 was due to a reduction of deferred tax
liabilities recorded in connection with our acquisition of Wyeth.     

(e)   
    2009 and 2010 excludes federal, state and international net tax liabilities assumed or established on the date of the acquisition of Wyeth (See  Note 2.
Acquisition of Wyeth  for additional details) and $4 million in 2008 primarily related to the resolution of certain tax positions related to legacy Pharmacia Corporation (Pharmacia), which were debited or credited to  Goodwill,  as
appropriate.         On December 17, 2010, the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010 extended
the research and development tax credit from January 1, 2010, through December 31, 2011.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            In the fourth-quarter of 2010, we recorded a tax benefit of approximately $1.4 billion related to an audit settlement with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. The 2010 U.S. income tax was also favorably impacted by
the reversal of approximately $600 million of accruals related to interest on these unrecognized tax benefits. 2010 U.S. income tax was negatively impacted by the write-off of approximately $270 million of deferred tax assets related to the Medicare
Part D subsidy for retiree prescription drug coverage, resulting from changes in the U.S. healthcare legislation enacted in March 2010 concerning the tax treatment of that subsidy effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2012.
During 2010, we also recognized $320 million in international tax benefits for the resolution of certain tax positions pertaining to prior years with various foreign tax authorities, as well as from the expiration of the statute of
limitations. The 2010 international provision was also favorably impacted by $140 million related to the reversal of accruals for interest on these unrecognized tax benefits (See  Tax Contingencies  below for additional information on
audit settlements).      In the third-quarter of 2009, we recorded a tax benefit of $174 million related to the final resolution of an agreement-in-principle
with the DOJ to settle investigations of past promotional practices concerning Bextra and certain other investigations. This resulted in the receipt of information that raised our assessment of the likelihood of prevailing on the technical merits of
our tax position. In 2009 and 2008, we sold two of our biopharmaceutical companies, Vicuron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Vicuron) and Esperion Therapeutics, Inc. (Esperion), respectively. Both sales, for nominal consideration, resulted in a loss for tax
purposes that reduced our U.S. tax expense by $556 million in 2009 and $426 million in 2008. These tax benefits are a result of the significant initial investment in these entities at the time of acquisition, primarily reported as an income
statement charge for IPR D at acquisition date. These tax benefits were offset by certain costs associated with the Wyeth acquisition that are not deductible. In 2008, we effectively settled certain issues common among multinational corporations
with various foreign tax authorities relating to multiple prior years. As a result, in 2008 we recognized $305 million in tax benefits. 2008 also reflects the impact of the third-quarter 2008 provision for the proposed resolution of certain Bextra
and Celebrex civil litigation and the impact of the fourth-quarter 2008 provision for the proposed resolution of certain investigations, which were either not deductible or deductible at lower tax rates.   
  Amounts reflected in the preceding tables are based on the location of the taxing authorities.       B. Tax Rate Reconciliation       Reconciliation of the U.S. statutory income tax rate to our effective tax rate for
income from continuing operations follows:       
    For earnings taxed at other than the U.S. statutory rate, this rate impact reflects the fact that we operate manufacturing subsidiaries
in Puerto Rico, Ireland and Singapore. We benefit from Puerto Rican incentive grants that expire between 2013 and 2029. Under the grants, we are partially exempt from income, property and municipal taxes. In Ireland, we benefited from an incentive
tax rate effective through 2010 on income from manufacturing operations. In Singapore, we benefit from incentive tax rates effective through 2031 on income from manufacturing operations. The rate impact also reflects the jurisdictional location of
earnings and the costs of certain repatriation decisions and uncertain tax positions. In 2008, the rate impact also reflects the realization of approximately $711 million (tax effect) in net operating losses.   
  For a discussion about the resolution of certain tax positions, see the  Tax Contingencies  section below. For a discussion about the sales of the
biopharmaceutical companies, legal settlements, and Wyeth acquisition related costs and about the impact of U.S. healthcare legislation, see the  Taxes on Income  section above. The charges for acquired IPR D in 2010, 2009 and 2008 are
primarily not deductible.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             C. Deferred Taxes       Deferred taxes arise as a result of basis differentials between financial statement
accounting and tax amounts. The tax effect of the major items recorded as deferred tax assets and liabilities, shown before jurisdictional netting, as of December 31 is as follows:   
   
    The net deferred tax liability is classified in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as follows:   
   
    The increase in net deferred tax liability position in 2010, compared to 2009, was primarily due to an increase in noncurrent deferred
tax liabilities on unremitted earnings, partially offset by an increase in current deferred tax assets established as a result of litigation charges incurred in connection with our wholly owned subsidiary Quigley Company, Inc. and a reduction in
noncurrent deferred tax liabilities related to identifiable intangibles established in connection with our acquisition of Wyeth.      We have carryforwards,
primarily related to foreign tax credit carryovers, net operating loss carryovers and capital loss carryforwards, which are available to reduce future U.S. federal and state, as well as international, income taxes payable with either an indefinite
life or expiring at various times between 2011 and 2029. Certain of our U.S. net operating losses are subject to limitations under Internal Revenue Code Section 382.      Valuation allowances are provided when we believe that our deferred tax assets are not recoverable based on an assessment of estimated future taxable income that incorporates ongoing, prudent and feasible tax
planning strategies.      As of December 31, 2010, we have not made a U.S. tax provision on approximately $48.2 billion of unremitted earnings of our
international subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2010, these earnings are intended to be permanently reinvested overseas; as such, it is not practical to compute the estimated deferred tax liability on these permanently reinvested earnings.
      D. Tax Contingencies       We are subject to income
tax in many jurisdictions, and a certain degree of estimation is required in recording the assets and liabilities related to income taxes. All of our tax positions are subject to audit by the local taxing authorities in each tax jurisdiction. These
tax audits can involve complex issues, interpretations and judgments and the resolution of matters may span multiple years, particularly if subject to negotiation or litigation. As a result, our evaluation of tax contingencies can involve a series
of complex judgments about future events and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions deemed reasonable by management. However, if our estimates and assumptions are not representative of actual outcomes, our results could be materially
impacted. For a description of our accounting policies associated with accounting for income tax contingencies, see  Note 1P.   Significant Accounting Policies: Deferred Tax Assets and Income Tax Contingencies  and  Note 1C. Significant
Accounting Policies: Estimates and Assumptions.    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            Because tax law is complex and often subject to varied interpretations, it is uncertain whether some of our tax positions will be sustained upon audit. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had approximately
$5.8 billion and $6.4 billion in net liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions, excluding associated interest.       

Tax assets associated with uncertain tax positions primarily represent our estimate of the potential tax benefits in one tax jurisdiction that could result from
the payment of income taxes in another tax jurisdiction. These potential benefits generally result from cooperative efforts among taxing authorities, as required by tax treaties to minimize double taxation, commonly referred to as the competent
authority process. The recoverability of these assets, which we believe to be more likely than not, is dependent upon the actual payment of taxes in one tax jurisdiction and, in some cases, the successful petition for recovery in another tax
jurisdiction. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had approximately $1.0 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, in assets associated with uncertain tax positions recorded in  Taxes and other noncurrent assets .

Tax liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions represent unrecognized tax benefits, which arise when the estimated benefit recorded in our financial
statements differs from the amounts taken or expected to be taken in a tax return because of the uncertainties described above. These unrecognized tax benefits relate primarily to issues common among multinational corporations. Substantially all of
these unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized, would impact our effective income tax rate.         A reconciliation of the beginning and
ending amounts of gross unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:       

(a)   
    Primarily included in  Provision for taxes on income .      

(b)   
    Decreases are primarily a result of effectively settling certain issues with the U.S. and foreign tax authorities for a net benefit of $1.7 billion, reflecting
the reversal of the related tax assets associated with the competent authority process and state and local taxes and are primarily included in  Provision for taxes on income.        

(c)   
    Primarily includes decreases as a result of a lapse of applicable statutes of limitations.      

(d)   
    In 2010, included in Income taxes payable ($421 million),  Taxes and other current assets  ($279 million),  Taxes and other noncurrent assets  ($169
million),  Noncurrent deferred tax liabilities  ($369 million) and  Other taxes payable  ($5.5 billion). In 2009, included in  Income taxes payable    ($144 million),  Taxes and other current assets  ($78 million),
 Noncurrent deferred tax liabilities  ($208 million) and  Other taxes payable  ($7.2 billion).          

Interest related to our unrecognized tax benefits is recorded in accordance with the laws of each jurisdiction and is recorded in  Provision for taxes on
income  in our Consolidated Statements of Income. In 2010, we recorded net interest income of $545 million, primarily as a result of settling certain issues with the U.S. and various foreign tax authorities, which are discussed below. In 2009 and
2008, we recorded net interest expense of $191 million and $106 million. Gross accrued interest totaled $952 million as of December 31, 2010 and $1.9 billion as of December 31, 2009 (including $300 million recorded upon the acquisition of
Wyeth). In 2010, these amounts were included in  Income taxes payable  ($112 million),  Taxes and other current assets  ($122 million) and  Other taxes payable  ($718 million). In 2009, these amounts were included in  Income taxes
payable  ($90 million),  Taxes and other current assets  ($55 million) and  Other taxes payable  ($1.8 billion). Accrued penalties are not significant.         The United States is one of our major tax jurisdictions. During the fourth-quarter of 2010, we reached a settlement with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) related to issues we had appealed with respect to the
audits of the Pfizer Inc. tax returns for the years 2002 through 2005, as well as the Pharmacia audit for the year 2003 through the date of merger with Pfizer (April 16, 2003). The IRS concluded its examination of the aforementioned tax years
and issued a final Revenue Agent s Report (RAR). The company has agreed with all of the adjustments and computations contained in the RAR. As a result of settling these audit years, in the fourth quarter of 2010, we reduced our
unrecognized tax benefits by approximately $1.4 billion and recorded a corresponding tax benefit. The fourth-quarter and full-year 2010 effective tax rates were also favorably impacted by the reversal of $600 million of accruals related to interest
on these unrecognized tax benefits. The 2006, 2007 and 2008 tax years currently are under audit. The 2009 and 2010 tax years are not yet under audit. All other tax years in the U.S. for Pfizer Inc. are closed under the statute of limitations. With
respect to Wyeth, the years 2002 through 2005 currently are under IRS audit, and tax years 2006 through the Wyeth acquisition date (October 15, 2009) are not yet under audit.      In addition to the open audit years in the U.S., we have open audit years in other major tax jurisdictions, such as Canada (1998-2010), Japan (2006-2010), Europe (1997-2010, primarily reflecting Ireland, the United
Kingdom, France, Italy, Spain and Germany) and Puerto Rico (2003-2010). During 2010, we also recognized $320 million in tax benefits resulting from the resolution of certain tax positions pertaining to prior years with various foreign tax
authorities as well as from the expiration of the statute of limitations. The 2010 effective tax rate was also favorably impacted by $140 million related to the reversal of accruals for interest on these unrecognized tax benefits.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            Any settlements or statute of limitations expirations would likely result in a significant decrease in our uncertain tax positions. We estimate that within the next 12 months, our gross unrecognized tax benefits,
exclusive of interest, could decrease by as much as $750 million, as a result of settlements with taxing authorities or the expiration of the statute of limitations. Our estimates of unrecognized tax benefits and potential tax benefits may not be
representative of actual outcomes, and variation from such estimates could materially affect our financial statements in the period of settlement or when the statutes of limitations expire, as we treat these events as discrete items in the period of
resolution. Finalizing audits with the relevant taxing authorities can include formal administrative and legal proceedings, and, as a result, it is difficult to estimate the timing and range of possible change related to our uncertain tax positions,
and such changes could be significant.       8. Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss)       Changes, net of tax, in  Accumulated other comprehensive (loss)/income  and the components of comprehensive income follow:       

(b)    
    The currency translation adjustments reclassified to income resulted from the sale of businesses.      
  Income taxes are not provided for foreign currency translation relating to permanent investments in international subsidiaries.   
  As of December 31, 2010, we estimate that we will reclassify into 2011 income the following pre-tax amounts currently held in  Accumulated other
comprehensive (loss)/income : $7 million of the unrealized holding gains on derivative financial instruments; $280 million of actuarial losses related to benefit plan obligations and plan assets and other benefit plan items; and $72 million of
prior service credits related primarily to benefit plan amendments.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             9. Financial Instruments        A. Selected Financial Assets and Liabilities    
  Information about certain of our financial assets and liabilities follows:       

(a)    
    Fair values are determined based on valuation techniques categorized as follows: Level 1 means the use of quoted prices for identical instruments in active
markets; Level 2 means the use of quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active or are directly or indirectly observable; Level 3 means the use of
unobservable inputs. All of our financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis use Level 2 inputs in the calculation of fair value, except that included in available-for-sale equity securities, excluding money market
funds, are $105 million as of December 31, 2010 and $77 million as of December 31, 2009 of investments that use Level 1 inputs in the calculation of fair value. None of our financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
recurring basis are valued using Level 3 inputs at December 31, 2010 or 2009.      

(b)    
    Trading securities are held in trust for legacy business acquisition severance benefits.      

(c)    
    Gross unrealized gains and losses are not significant.      

(d)    
    Includes approximately $625 million as of December 31, 2010 and approximately $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2009 of money market funds held in escrow
to secure certain of Wyeth s payment obligations under its 1999 Nationwide Class Action Settlement Agreement, which relates to litigation against Wyeth concerning its former weight-loss products, Redux and Pondimin (see  Note 9G. Financial
Instruments: Guarantee ).      

(e)    
    Designated as hedging instruments, except for certain foreign currency contracts used as offsets; namely, foreign currency forward-exchange contracts with fair
values of $326 million and foreign currency swaps with fair values of $17 million at December 31, 2010; and foreign currency swaps with fair values of $106 million and foreign currency forward-exchange contracts with fair values of $100 million
at December 31, 2009.      

(f)    
    The differences between the estimated fair values and carrying values of our financial assets and liabilities not measured at fair value on a recurring basis
were not significant as of December 31, 2010 or December 31, 2009.      

(g)    
    Our private equity securities represent investments in the life sciences sector.      

(h)    
    Our short-term and long-term loans are due from companies with highly rated securities (Standard   Poor s (S P) ratings of mostly AA or
better).      

(i)    
    The decrease in selected financial assets is primarily due to the use of proceeds of short-term investments for repayment of short-term borrowings and for tax
payments made in the first quarter of 2010, primarily associated with certain business decisions executed to finance the Wyeth acquisition, partially offset by cash flows from operations.      

(j)    
    Designated as hedging instruments, except for certain foreign currency contracts used as offsets; namely, foreign currency forward-exchange contracts with fair
values of $186 million and foreign currency swaps with fair values of $93 million at December 31, 2010; and foreign currency forward-exchange contracts with fair values of $122 million and foreign currency swaps with fair values of $3 million
at December 31, 2009.      

(k)    
    The carrying amounts may include adjustments for discount or premium amortization or for the effect of interest rate swaps designated as hedges.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities:       

Trading equity securities quoted market prices.          

Trading debt securities observable market interest rates.          

Available-for-sale debt securities third-party matrix-pricing model that uses significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data and
credit-adjusted interest rate yield curves.          

Available-for-sale money market funds observable Net Asset Value prices.      

Available-for-sale equity securities, excluding money market funds third-party pricing services that principally use a composite of observable prices.

Derivative financial instruments (assets and liabilities) third-party matrix-pricing model that uses significant inputs derived from or corroborated by
observable market data. Where applicable, these models discount future cash flow amounts using market-based observable inputs, including interest rate yield curves, and forward and spot prices for currencies. The credit risk impact to our derivative
financial instruments was not significant.          

Held-to-maturity debt securities third-party matrix-pricing model that uses significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data and
credit-adjusted interest rate yield curves.          

Private equity securities, excluding equity-method investments application of the implied volatility associated with an observable biotech index to the
carrying amount of our portfolio and, to a lesser extent, performance multiples of comparable securities adjusted for company-specific information.          

Short-term and long-term loans third-party model that discounts future cash flows using current interest rates at which similar loans would be made to
borrowers with similar credit ratings and for the same remaining maturities.          

Short-term borrowings and long-term debt third-party matrix-pricing model that uses significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market
data and our own credit rating.         In addition, we have long-term receivables where the determination of fair value employs discounted
future cash flows, using current interest rates at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings and for the same remaining maturities.      A single estimate of fair value for these financial instruments relies heavily on estimates and assumptions (see  Note 1C. Significant Accounting Polices: Estimates and Assumptions ).   
  These selected financial assets and liabilities are presented in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as follows :    

(  a)  
  
    As of December 31, 2010, derivative instruments at fair value include foreign currency forward-exchange contracts ($494 million) and foreign currency swaps
($21 million) and, as of December 31, 2009, include foreign currency forward-exchange contracts ($503 million) and foreign currency swaps ($23 million).      

(c)    
    At December 31, 2010, derivative instruments at fair value include foreign currency forward-exchange contracts ($257 million), foreign currency swaps ($79
million) and interest rate swaps ($3 million) and, as of December 31, 2009, include foreign currency forward-exchange contracts ($237 million) and foreign currency swaps ($132 million).      
    There were no significant
impairments of financial assets recognized in 2010, 2009 or 2008.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             B. Investments in Debt and Equity Securities       The contractual maturities of the available-for-sale and
held-to-maturity debt securities as of December 31, 2010, follow:       

(a)   
    Largely issued by above-investment-grade institutions in the financial services sector.      

(b)   
    Very short-term agreements involving U.S. government securities.      

(c  )   
    Consisting of securities issued by the U.S. government and its agencies or instrumentalities and reverse repurchase agreements involving the same investments
held.          C. Short-Term Borrowings    
  Short-term borrowings include amounts for commercial paper of $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2010, and $3.9 billion as of December 31, 2009. The
weighted-average effective interest rate on short-term borrowings outstanding was 2.8% as of December 31, 2010, and 0.7% as of December 31, 2009.      As of December 31, 2010, we had access to $9.0 billion of lines of credit, of which $1.9 billion expire within one year. Of these lines of credit, $8.4 billion are unused, of which our lenders have committed
to loan us $7.0 billion at our request. Also, $7.0 billion of our unused lines of credit, all of which expire in 2013, may be used to support our commercial paper borrowings.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             D. Long-Term Debt       Information about our long-term debt follows:   

(a)    
    Instrument is callable by us at any time at the greater of 100% of the principal amount or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of
principal and interest discounted at the U.S. Treasury rate plus 0.50% plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest.      

(b)    
    Instrument is callable by us at any time at the greater of 100% of the principal amount or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of
principal and interest discounted at a comparable government bond rate plus 0.20% plus accrued and unpaid interest.      

(c)    
    Contains debt issuances with a weighted-average maturity of approximately 6 years.      

(d)    
    Contains debt issuances with a weighted-average maturity of approximately 19 years.      

(e)    
    Contains debt issuances with a weighted-average maturity of approximately 5 years.         Long-term debt outstanding as of December 31, 2010 matures in the following years:       
    In March 2007, we filed a securities registration statement with the SEC. The registration statement was filed under the automatic
shelf registration process available to  well-known seasoned issuers  and expired in March 2010. On March 24, 2009, in order to partially finance our acquisition of Wyeth, we issued $13.5 billion of senior unsecured notes under this
registration statement. On June 3, 2009, also in order to partially finance our acquisition of Wyeth, we issued approximately $10.5 billion of senior unsecured notes in a private placement pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act of
1933, as amended (Securities Act of 1933). The notes issued on June 3, 2009 have not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and, subject to certain exceptions, may not be sold, offered or delivered within the U.S. to,
or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons.       E. Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities    
   Foreign Exchange Risk  A significant portion of our revenues, earnings and net investments in foreign affiliates is exposed to changes in foreign
exchange rates. We seek to manage our foreign exchange risk, in part, through operational means, including managing expected same-currency revenues in relation to same-currency costs and same-currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities.
Depending on market conditions, foreign exchange risk also is managed through the use of derivative financial instruments and foreign currency debt. These financial instruments serve to protect net income and net investments against the impact of
the translation into U.S. dollars of certain foreign exchange-denominated transactions. The aggregate notional amount of foreign exchange derivative financial instruments hedging or offsetting foreign currency exposures is $47.6 billion. The
derivative financial instruments primarily hedge or offset exposures in the euro, Japanese yen and U.K. pound. The maximum length of time over which we are hedging future foreign exchange cash flows relates to our $2.3 billion U.K. pound debt
maturing in 2038.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            All derivative contracts used to manage foreign currency risk are measured at fair value and are reported as assets or liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. Changes in fair value are reported in earnings
or deferred, depending on the nature and purpose of the financial instrument (offset or hedge relationship) and the effectiveness of the hedge relationships, as follows:   

We defer on the balance sheet the effective portion of the gains or losses on foreign currency forward-exchange contracts and foreign currency swaps that are
designated as cash flow hedges and reclassify those amounts, as appropriate, into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings.      

We recognize the gains and losses on forward-exchange contracts and foreign currency swaps that are used to offset the same foreign currency assets or
liabilities immediately into earnings along with the earnings impact of the items they generally offset. These contracts essentially take the opposite currency position of that reflected in the month-end balance sheet to counterbalance the effect of
any currency movement.          

We recognize the gain and loss impact on foreign currency swaps designated as hedges of our net investments in earnings in three ways: over time  for
the periodic net swap payments; immediately  to the extent of any change in the difference between the foreign exchange spot rate and forward rate; and upon sale or substantial liquidation of our net investments to the extent of
change in the foreign exchange spot rates.          

We defer on the balance sheet foreign exchange gains and losses related to foreign exchange-denominated debt designated as a hedge of our net investments in
foreign subsidiaries and reclassify those amounts into earnings upon the sale or substantial liquidation of our net investments.         Any
ineffectiveness is recognized immediately into earnings. There was no significant ineffectiveness in 2010, 2009 or 2008.       Interest Rate
Risk  Our interest-bearing investments, loans and borrowings are subject to interest rate risk. We seek to invest and loan primarily on a short-term or variable-rate basis; however, in light of current market conditions, we currently borrow
primarily on a long-term, fixed-rate basis. From time to time, depending on market conditions, we will change the profile of our outstanding debt by entering into derivative financial instruments like interest rate swaps.   
  We entered into derivative financial instruments to hedge or offset the fixed interest rates on the hedged item, matching the amount and timing of the hedged item.
The aggregate notional amount of interest rate derivative financial instruments is $11.6 billion. The derivative financial instruments hedge U.S. dollar and euro fixed-rate debt.      All derivative contracts used to manage interest rate risk are measured at fair value and reported as assets or liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. Changes in fair value are reported in earnings, as
follows:       

We recognize the gains and losses on interest rate swaps that are designated as fair value hedges in earnings upon the recognition of the change in fair value of
the hedged risk. We recognize the offsetting earnings impact of fixed-rate debt attributable to the hedged risk also in earnings.         Any
ineffectiveness is recognized immediately into earnings. There was no significant ineffectiveness in 2010, 2009 or 2008.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            Information about gains/(losses) incurred to hedge or offset operational foreign exchange or interest rate risk is as follows:       

GAINS/(LOSSES)         

YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,  

(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)  
        
   2010   

2009  

Derivative Financial Instruments in Fair Value Hedge Relationships   

Interest rate swaps   

Recognized in OID (a)  , (b)    
        
   $   

$  
  (6  
  )    
 
    Foreign currency swaps   

Recognized in OID (a)  , (b)    

(3  
  )    
 
    Derivative Financial Instruments in Cash Flow Hedge Relationships   

U.S. Treasury interest rate locks   

Recognized in OID (a)    
        
   $   

$  
  (11  
  )    
 
    Recognized in OCI (a), (  c  )    

(16  
  )    
 
    Reclassified from OCI to OID (a), (  c  )    

Foreign currency swaps   

Recognized in OID (a)    

Recognized in OCI (a), (  c  )    

(1,054   
   )    

305  

Reclassified from OCI to OID (a), (  c  )    

(704   
   )    

281  

Foreign currency forward exchange contracts   

Recognized in OID (a)    

Recognized in OCI (a), (  c  )    

(6   
   )    

6  

Reclassified from OCI to
OID (a), (  c  )

2   

18  

Derivative Financial Instruments in Net Investment Hedge Relationships   

Foreign currency swaps   

Recognized in OID (a)    
        
   $   
   (1   
   )    

$  
  (1  
  )    
 
    Recognized in OCI (a), (  c  )    

(97   
   )    

17  

Derivative Financial Instruments Not Designated as Hedges   

Foreign currency swaps   

Recognized in OID (a)    
        
   $   
   20   

$  
  22  

Foreign currency forward-exchange contracts   

Recognized in
OID (a)    

(454   
   )    

(418  
  )    
 
    Non-Derivative Financial Instruments in Net Investment Hedge Relationships   

Foreign currency short-term borrowings   

Recognized in OID (a)    
        
   $   

$  

Recognized in OCI (a), (  c  )    

(241   
   )    

54  

Foreign currency long-term debt   

Recognized in OID (a)    

Recognized in OCI (a), (  c  )    

(91   
   )    

52  

(a)    
    OID = Other (income)/deductions  net. OCI =  Other comprehensive income/(loss) , included in the balance sheet account  Accumulated other
comprehensive (loss)/income .      

(b)    
    Also includes gains and losses attributable to the hedged risk.      

(c)    
    Amounts presented represent the effective portion of the gain or loss. For derivative financial instruments in cash flow hedge relationships, the effective
portion is included in  Other comprehensive income/(loss) Net unrealized gains/(losses) on derivative financial instruments . For derivative financial instruments in net investment hedge relationships and for foreign currency debt
designated as hedging instruments, the effective portion is included in  Other comprehensive income/(loss)  Currency translation adjustment and other.          For information about the fair value of our derivative financial instruments, and the impact on our consolidated balance sheet, see  Note 9A. Financial Instruments: Selected Financial Assets and Liabilities.
 Certain of our derivative instruments are covered by associated credit-support agreements that have credit-risk-related contingent features designed to reduce our counterparties  exposure to our risk of defaulting on amounts owed. The
aggregate fair value of these derivative instruments that are in a liability position is $628 million, for which we have posted collateral of $452 million in the normal course of business. These features include the requirement to pay additional
collateral in the event of a downgrade in our debt ratings. If there had been a downgrade to below an A rating by S P or the equivalent rating by Moody s Investors Service, on December 31, 2010, we would have been required to post an
additional $194 million of collateral to our counterparties. The collateral advanced receivables are reported in  Cash and cash equivalents.        F.
Credit Risk       On an ongoing basis, we review the creditworthiness of counterparties to our foreign exchange and interest rate agreements and do not
expect to incur a significant loss from failure of any counterparties to perform under the agreements. There are no significant concentrations of credit risk related to our financial instruments with any individual counterparty. As of
December 31, 2010, we had $2.7 billion due from a well-diversified, highly rated group (S P ratings of primarily A+ or better) of bank counterparties around the world. See  Note 9B. Financial Instruments: Investment in Debt and Equity
Securities  for a distribution of our investments.      In general, there is no requirement for collateral from customers. However, derivative financial
instruments are executed under master netting agreements with financial institutions. These agreements contain provisions that provide for the ability for collateral payments, depending on levels of exposure, our credit rating and the credit rating
of the counterparty. As of December 31, 2010, we received cash collateral of $300 million against various counterparties. The collateral primarily supports the approximate fair value of our derivative contracts. The collateral received
obligations are reported in  Short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt.    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             G. Guarantee       On April 15, 2010, Wyeth LLC (Wyeth), a wholly owned subsidiary of Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer),
entered into the Tenth Amendment (Tenth Amendment) to the 1999 Diet Drug Nationwide Settlement Agreement (Settlement Agreement) related to the litigation against Wyeth concerning its former weight-loss products, Redux and Pondimin. Pursuant to
the Tenth Amendment, Pfizer entered into an agreement to guarantee Wyeth's obligation to make certain payments under the Settlement Agreement up to a maximum amount of $1.5 billion (Guarantee). The Guarantee, which went into effect on
July 12, 2010, will remain in effect until the termination of Wyeth's long-term obligation to make such payments. This Guarantee also had the effect of releasing approximately $575 million from a money market fund held in escrow to secure these
Wyeth obligations.       10. Inventories       The
components of inventories follow:       

(a)    
    The decrease in total inventories is primarily due to the inventory sold during 2010 that was acquired from Wyeth and had been recorded at fair value, as well as
operational reductions and the impact of foreign exchange. Also, in the third quarter of 2010, we recorded, in  Cost of sales,  a write-off of inventory of $212 million (which includes a purchase accounting fair value adjustment of $104
million) primarily related to Biopharmaceutical inventory acquired as part of our acquisition of Wyeth that became unusable after the acquisition date.      

(b)    
    Certain amounts of inventories are in excess of one year s supply. These excess amounts are primarily attributable to biologics inventory acquired from
Wyeth at fair value and the quantities are generally consistent with the normal operating cycle of such inventory. There are no recoverability issues associated with these quantities.      
   11. Property, Plant and Equipment       The major categories of
property, plant and equipment follow:       
     12. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets        A. Goodwill       The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009
follow:       

(  a)  
  
    The  Other  goodwill relates to our acquisition of Wyeth that was unallocated and subject to change until we completed the recording of the assets acquired
and liabilities assumed from Wyeth (see  Note 2. Acquisition of Wyeth ).      

(  b  )    
    Reflects the impact of measurement period adjustments (see  Note 2. Acquisition of Wyeth ).      

(  c  )    
    Primarily reflects the impact of foreign exchange. In 2009, the impact of foreign exchange was partially offset by a reduction of approximately $150 million in
Biopharmaceutical in connection with the formation of ViiV (see  Note 3E. Other Significant Transactions and Events: Equity-Method Investments  for additional information).      

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             B. Other Intangible Assets       The components of identifiable intangible assets, primarily included in our
Biopharmaceutical segment, follow:       

(a)   
   
      The decrease in total Finite-lived intangible assets is primarily related to
amortization, the impact of measurement period adjustments (see  Note 2. Acquisition of Wyeth ), asset impairment charges (see  Note 3B. Other Significant Transactions and Events: Asset Impairment Charges  and  Note 6. Other
(Income)/Deductions  Net ) and the impact of foreign exchange.      

(b  ) 
   
      The decrease in Indefinite-lived Brands and IPR D assets reflects the impact of
measurement period adjustments (see  Note 2. Acquisition of Wyeth ) and asset impairment charges (see  Note 3B. Other Significant Transactions and Events: Asset Impairment Charges  and  Note 6. Other
(Income)/Deductions  Net ). For IPR D assets, the decrease was partially offset by the addition of the IPR D asset acquired as part of our acquisition of FoldRx ( Note 3D. Other Significant Transactions and Events:
Acquisitions).          All of these assets are subject to our review for impairment, as explained in  Note 1L. Significant Accounting
Policies: Amortization of Intangible Assets, Depreciation and Certain Long-Lived Assets . For additional information on intangible asset impairments recorded in 2010 and 2009, see  Note 3B. Other Significant Transactions and Events: Asset
Impairment Charges  and  Note 6. Other (Income)/Deductions  Net .       Developed Technology Rights    
  Developed technology rights represent the amortized cost associated with developed technology, which has been acquired from third parties and which can include the
right to develop, use, market, sell and/or offer for sale the product, compounds and intellectual property that we have acquired with respect to products, compounds and/or processes that have been completed. We possess a well-diversified portfolio
of hundreds of developed technology rights across therapeutic categories, primarily representing the commercialized products included in our Biopharmaceutical segment. Virtually all of these assets were acquired in connection with our Wyeth
acquisition in 2009 and our Pharmacia acquisition in 2003. The more significant components of developed technology rights are the following (in order of significance): Enbrel and Prevnar/Prevenar 13 Infant and, to a lesser extent, Premarin,
Celebrex, Effexor, Pristiq, Tygacil, BMP-2, BeneFIX, Refacto and Genotropin.      Also included in this category are the post-approval milestone payments
made under our alliance agreements for certain Biopharmaceutical products, such as Rebif and Spiriva.       Brands    
  Brands represent the amortized or unamortized cost associated with tradenames and know-how, as the products themselves do not receive patent protection. Most of
these assets are associated with our Diversified segment. Virtually all of these assets were acquired in connection with our Wyeth acquisition in 2009 and our Pharmacia acquisition in 2003. The more significant components of indefinite-lived brands
are the following (in order of significance): Advil, Xanax, Centrum, Medrol, 1st Age Nutrition and 2nd Age Nutrition. The more significant components of finite-lived brands are the following (in order of significance): Depo-Provera, Advil Cold and
Sinus, and Dimetapp.       In-Process Research and Development       IPR D assets represent research and development assets that have not yet received regulatory approval and are required to be classified as indefinite-lived assets until the successful completion or the
abandonment of the associated research and development effort. Accordingly, during the development period after the date of acquisition, these assets will not be amortized until approval is obtained in a major market, typically either the U.S. or
the EU, or in a series of other countries, subject to certain specified conditions and management judgment. At that time, we will determine the useful life of the asset, reclassify the asset out of in-process research and development and begin
amortization. In 2009, Prevnar/Prevenar 13 Infant received regulatory approval in a major market, and as a result, we reclassified the asset from IPR D to Developed Technology Rights and began to amortize the asset.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            If the associated research and development effort is abandoned, the related IPR D assets will likely be written-off, and we will record an impairment loss in our consolidated statements of income.   
  For IPR D assets, the risk of failure is significant and there can be no certainty that these assets ultimately will yield a successful product. The nature of
the biopharmaceutical business is high-risk and requires that we invest in a large number of projects with a goal of achieving a successful portfolio of approved products. As such, it is likely that many of these IPR D assets will become
impaired and be written-off at some time in the future.      The majority of these IPR D assets were acquired in connection with our acquisition of
Wyeth. The more significant components of IPR D are Prevnar/Prevenar 13 Adult and, to a lesser extent, projects for the treatment of transthyretin amyloid polyneuropathy (ATTR-PN) and Rheumatoid Arthritis, among others.   
   Amortization       The weighted-average life of both our total
finite-lived intangible assets and our developed technology rights is approximately 11 years. Total amortization expense for finite-lived intangible assets was $5.5 billion in 2010, $3.0 billion in 2009 and $2.8 billion in 2008.   
  The annual amortization expense expected for the years 2011 through 2015 is as follows:   
   
     13. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans    
  We provide defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for the majority of our employees worldwide. In the U.S., we have both qualified and
supplemental (non-qualified) defined benefit plans. A qualified plan meets the requirements of certain sections of the Internal Revenue Code, and, generally, contributions to qualified plans are tax deductible. A qualified plan typically provides
benefits to a broad group of employees with restrictions on discriminating in favor of highly compensated employees with regard to coverage, benefits and contributions. A supplemental (non-qualified) plan provides additional benefits to certain
employees. In addition, we provide medical and life insurance benefits to certain retirees and their eligible dependents through our postretirement plans. In 2009, we assumed all of Wyeth s defined benefit obligations and related plan assets
for qualified and non-qualified pension plans and postretirement plans in connection with our acquisition of Wyeth (see  Note 2. Acquisition of Wyeth).       Beginning on January 1, 2011, for employees hired in the U.S. and Puerto Rico after December 31, 2010, we no longer offer a defined benefit plan and, instead, offer an enhanced benefit under our defined
contribution plan. In addition to the standard matching contribution by the Company, the enhanced benefit provides an automatic Company contribution for such employees based on age and years of service.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             A. Components of Net Periodic Benefit Costs and Other Amounts Recognized in Other Comprehensive (Income)/Loss    
  The annual cost and other amounts recognized in other comprehensive (income)/loss of the U.S. qualified, U.S. supplemental (non-qualified) and international pension
plans and postretirement plans follow:       

(a)    
      The acquisition of Wyeth during fourth quarter 2009 contributed to the increase in
certain components of net periodic benefit costs, such as service cost and interest cost, which was largely offset by higher expected returns on plan assets during 2010 from the inclusion of the Wyeth plan assets.      

(b)    
      For details, see  Note 8. Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) .
        The decrease in the 2010 U.S. qualified pension plans  net periodic benefit costs compared to 2009 was largely driven by
curtailment gains and lower settlement charges associated with Wyeth-related restructuring initiatives. The increase in the 2009 U.S. qualified pension plans  net periodic benefit costs compared to 2008 was largely driven by the securities
market downturn during 2008 and by charges resulting from employee terminations associated with our cost-reduction initiatives. The securities market downturn during 2008 contributed to a lower plan asset base and higher actuarial losses recognized.
     The increase in the 2010 U.S. supplemental (non-qualified) plans  net periodic benefit costs compared to 2009 was primarily driven by special
termination benefits recognized for certain executives as part of ongoing Wyeth-related restructuring initiatives. The increase in the 2009 U.S. supplemental (non-qualified) plans  net periodic benefit costs compared to 2008 was largely driven
by the impact of special termination benefits recognized for certain executives as part of Wyeth-related restructuring initiatives, which was largely offset by lower settlement charges      The increase in the 2010 international plans  net periodic benefit costs compared to 2009 was primarily driven by changes to actuarial assumptions, which include a decrease in the discount rate. The decrease
in the 2009 international plans  net periodic benefit costs compared to 2008 was largely driven by an increase in interest rates set at the beginning of the year and ongoing restructuring and certain acquisition-related activities, which was
partially offset by lower expected returns on plan assets.      The following table presents the amount in  Accumulated other comprehensive (loss)/income
 expected to be amortized into 2011 net periodic benefit costs:       

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             B. Actuarial Assumptions       The following table provides the weighted-average actuarial assumptions:   
   
    The assumptions above are used to develop the benefit obligations at fiscal year-end and to develop the net periodic benefit cost for
the subsequent fiscal year. Therefore, the assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost for each year are established at the end of each previous year, while the assumptions used to determine benefit obligations are established at each
year-end.      The net periodic benefit cost and the benefit obligations are based on actuarial assumptions that are reviewed on an annual basis. We revise
these assumptions based on an annual evaluation of long-term trends, as well as market conditions that may have an impact on the cost of providing retirement benefits.      The expected rates of return on plan assets for our U.S. qualified, international and postretirement plans represent our long-term assessment of return expectations, which we may change based on shifts in economic
and financial market conditions. The 2010 expected rates of return for these plans reflect our long-term outlook for a globally diversified portfolio, which is influenced by a combination of return expectations for individual asset classes, actual
historical experience and our diversified investment strategy. The historical returns are one of the inputs used to provide context for the development of our expectations for future returns. Using this information, we develop ranges of returns for
each asset class and a weighted-average expected return for our targeted portfolio, which includes the impact of portfolio diversification and active portfolio management.      The healthcare cost trend rate assumptions for our U.S. postretirement benefit plans are as follows:       
    A one-percentage-point increase or decrease in the healthcare cost trend rate assumed for postretirement benefits would have the
following effects as of December 31, 2010:       

(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)  
      
  INCREASE  

DECREASE  

Effect on total service and interest cost components   
      
  $  
  28  

$  
  (24  
  )   

Effect on postretirement benefit obligation   

272  

(242  
  )   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             C. Obligations and Funded Status       The following table presents an analysis of the changes in 2010 and 2009 in
the benefit obligations, plan assets and accounting funded status of our U.S. qualified, U.S. supplemental (non-qualified) and international pension plans and our postretirement plans:   

(a)    
    The increase in the benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year in 2010 is primarily due to the acquisition of Wyeth during
2009 (see  Note 2. Acquisition of Wyeth , for additional information).      

(b)    
    For the U.S. and international pension plans, the benefit obligation is the projected benefit obligation. For the postretirement plans, the benefit obligation is
the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation.         The favorable change in our U.S. qualified plans  projected benefit
obligations funded status from $2.6 billion underfunded in the aggregate as of December 31, 2009, to $2.4 billion underfunded in the aggregate as of December 31, 2010, was largely driven by the increase in plan assets due to the higher
return on plan assets earned during 2010 and our $901 million contribution to plan assets, which was partially offset by higher costs incurred from the acquired Wyeth defined benefit obligations and the 0.4 percentage-point reduction in the discount
rate. Voluntary contributions to our U.S. qualified plans were $901 million in 2010 and $2 million in 2009. In the aggregate, the U.S. qualified pension plans are underfunded on a projected benefit measurement basis and on an accumulated benefit
obligation basis as of December 31, 2010 and 2009.      The U.S. supplemental (non-qualified) pension plans are not generally funded and these
obligations, which are substantially greater than the annual cash outlay for these liabilities, are paid from cash generated from operations.      The
favorable change in our international plans  projected benefit obligations funded status from $2.5 billion underfunded in the aggregate as of December 31, 2009, to $2.4 billion underfunded in the aggregate as of December 31, 2010, was
largely driven by a 0.1 percentage-point reduction in the average rate of compensation increases and strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro and the U.K. pound, which was partially offset by a 0.3 percentage-point reduction in the discount
rate and higher costs incurred from the acquired Wyeth defined benefit obligations. Outside the U.S., in general, we fund our defined benefit plans to the extent that tax or other incentives exist and we have accrued liabilities on our consolidated
balance sheet to reflect those plans that are not fully funded.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            The favorable change in our postretirement plans  accumulated benefit obligations (ABO) funded status from $3.4 billion underfunded in the aggregate as of December 31, 2009, to $3.2 billion underfunded in
the aggregate as of December 31, 2010, was largely driven by the harmonization of the Wyeth postretirement benefit plan into the existing lower-cost Pfizer postretirement benefit plan, which was partially offset by higher costs incurred from
the acquired Wyeth defined benefit obligations and the 0.4 percentage-point reduction in discount rate.      The ABO for all of our U.S. qualified pension
plans was $12.0 billion in 2010 and $11.4 billion in 2009. The ABO for our U.S. supplemental (non-qualified) pension plans was $1.2 billion in 2010 and 2009. The ABO for our international pension plans was $8.1 billion in 2010 and $8.0 billion in
2009.      The U.S. qualified pension plans loan securities to other companies. Such securities may be onward loaned, sold or pledged by the other companies,
but they may be required to be returned in a short period of time. We also require cash collateral from these companies and a maintenance margin of 103% of the fair value of the collateral relative to the fair value of the loaned securities. As of
December 31, 2010, the fair value of collateral received was $581 million and, as of December 31, 2009, the fair value of collateral received was $722 million. The securities loaned continue to be included in the table above in  Fair
value of plan assets at end of year .      Amounts recognized in our consolidated balance sheet follow:   

(a)   
    Included primarily in  Taxes and other noncurrent assets .      

(b)   
    Included in O ther current liabilities .      

(c)   
    Included in  Pension benefit obligations  and  Postretirement benefit obligations,  as appropriate.      
  Amounts recognized in  Accumulated other comprehensive (loss)/income  follow:       
    The actuarial losses primarily represent the cumulative difference between the actuarial assumptions and actual return on plan assets,
changes in discount rates and changes in other assumptions used in measuring the benefit obligations. These actuarial losses are recognized in  Accumulated other comprehensive (loss)/income  and are amortized into net periodic pension costs
over an average period of 10.1 years for our U.S. qualified plans, an average period of 10.6 years for our U.S. supplemental (non-qualified) plans and an average period of 13.7 years for our international plans.   
  Information related to the U.S. qualified, U.S. supplemental (non-qualified) and international pension plans follows:   
   
    All of our U.S. plans were underfunded as of December 31, 2010.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             D. Plan Assets       Information about plan assets as of December 31, 2010 follows:   

(a)   
    Fair values are determined based on valuation techniques categorized as follows: Level 1 means the use of quoted prices for identical instruments in active
markets; Level 2 means the use of quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active or are directly or indirectly observable; Level 3 means the use of
unobservable inputs.      

(b)   
    Reflects postretirement plan assets, which support a portion of our U.S. retiree medical plans.      

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            Information about plan assets as of December 31, 2009 follows:       

(a)   
    Fair values are determined based on valuation techniques categorized as follows: Level 1 means the use of quoted prices for identical instruments in active
markets; Level 2 means the use of quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active or are directly or indirectly observable; Level 3 means the use of
unobservable inputs.      

(b)   
    Reflects postretirement plan assets, which support a portion of our U.S. retiree medical plans.      

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            The details of our plan assets classified as Level 3 assets, including an analysis of changes during 2010, are as follows:       
    The details of our plan assets classified as Level 3 assets, including an analysis of changes during 2009, are as follows:   
   
    As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of our pension and
postretirement plans  assets:       

Cash and cash equivalents, Equity commingled funds, Fixed-income commingled funds observable prices.      

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       

Global equity securities quoted market prices.          

Government bonds, Corporate debt securities observable market prices.      

Other investments principally unobservable prices adjusted by cash contributions and distributions.      
  A single estimate of fair value for our pension and postretirement plans  assets relies heavily on estimates and assumptions (see  Note 1C. Significant
Accounting Policies: Estimates and Assumptions ).      The following table presents the weighted-average long-term target asset allocations and the
percentage of the fair value of plan assets for our U.S. qualified and international pension plans and postretirement plans by major investment category:       
    We utilize long-term asset allocation ranges in the management of our plans  invested assets. The weighted-average target
allocation percentages in the preceding table represent our current target within the allocation range for each class of assets in our portfolio. Our long-term return expectations are developed based on a diversified, global investment strategy that
takes into account historical experience, as well as the impact of portfolio diversification, active portfolio management, and our view of current and future economic and financial market conditions. As market conditions and other factors change, we
may adjust our targets accordingly and our asset allocations may vary from the target allocations outlined above.      Our long-term asset allocation ranges
reflect our asset class return expectations and tolerance for investment risk within the context of the respective plans  long-term benefit obligations. These ranges are supported by analysis that incorporates historical and expected returns by
asset class, as well as volatilities and correlations across asset classes and our liability profile. This analysis, referred to as an asset-liability analysis, also provides an estimate of expected returns on plan assets, as well as a forecast of
potential future asset and liability balances.      The plans  assets are managed with the objectives of minimizing pension expense and cash
contributions over the long term. Asset liability studies are performed periodically in order to support asset allocations. Assets include equity and fixed income securities, as well as investments in private real estate, private debt and private
equity.      The investment managers of each separately managed account are prohibited from investing in derivative securities except for currency risk
management activities, which are permitted within the plans  non-U.S. asset classes, and derivatives to manage duration risk in the fixed income accounts.      Investment performance is reviewed on a monthly basis in total, as well as by asset class and individual manager, relative to one or more benchmarks. Investment performance and detailed statistical analysis of both
investment performance and portfolio holdings are conducted, a large portion of which is presented to senior management on a quarterly basis. Periodic formal meetings are held with each investment manager to review the investments.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             E. Cash Flows       It is our practice to fund amounts for our qualified pension plans that are at least sufficient
to meet the minimum requirements set forth in applicable employee benefit laws and local tax laws.      The following table presents expected future cash
flow information as of December 31, 2010:       
    The table reflects the total U.S. and international plan benefits projected to be paid from the plans or from our general assets under
the current actuarial assumptions used for the calculation of the benefit obligation and, therefore, actual benefit payments may differ from projected benefit payments.       F. Defined Contribution Plans       We have savings and investment plans in several countries, including the U.S.,
Japan, Spain and the Netherlands. For the U.S. plans, employees may contribute a portion of their salaries and bonuses to the plans, and we match, largely in company stock or company stock units, a portion of the employee contributions. In the U.S.,
the matching contributions in company stock are sourced from the Employee Benefit Trust (see  Note 14D. Equity: Employee Benefit Trust ), as well as through open market purchases. Employees are permitted to subsequently diversify all or any
portion of their company matching contribution. The contribution match for certain legacy Pfizer U.S. participants is held in an employee stock ownership plan. We recorded charges related to our plans of $259 million in 2010, $191 million in 2009
and $198 million in 2008.       14. Equity        A.
Common Stock       During 2009, in connection with our acquisition of Wyeth on October 15, 2009 (see  Note 2. Acquisition of Wyeth ), we issued
approximately 1.3 billion shares of common stock, which were previously held as Pfizer treasury stock, to former Wyeth shareholders to partially fund the acquisition. The excess of the average cost of Pfizer treasury stock issued over the fair value
of the stock portion of the consideration transferred to acquire Wyeth was recorded as a reduction to  Retained Earnings . We purchase our common stock via privately negotiated transactions or in open market purchases as circumstances and
prices warrant. Purchased shares under each of the share-purchase plans, which are authorized by our Board of Directors, are available for general corporate purposes.      On June 23, 2005, we announced that the Board of Directors authorized a $5 billion share-purchase plan (the 2005 Stock Purchase Plan). On June 26, 2006, we announced that the Board of Directors increased
the authorized amount of shares to be purchased under the 2005 Stock Purchase Plan from $5 billion to $18 billion. On January 23, 2008, we announced that the Board of Directors had authorized a new $5 billion share-purchase plan, to be funded
by operating cash flows that may be utilized from time to time. In total, under the 2005 and 2008 Stock Purchase Plans, through December 31, 2010, we purchased approximately 771 million shares for approximately $19.0 billion. We purchased
approximately 61 million shares of our common stock during 2010 at an average price per share of $16.46. We did not purchase any shares of our common stock in 2009 and, during 2008 we purchased approximately 26 million shares of our common
stock at an average price per share of $18.96.      On February 1, 2011, we announced that the Board of Directors authorized a new $5 billion
share-repurchase plan, which, together with the balance remaining under the 2008 Stock Purchase Plan, increased our total current authorization to $9 billion.       B. Preferred Stock       The Series A convertible perpetual preferred stock is held by an Employee Stock Ownership
Plan (Preferred ESOP) Trust and provides dividends at the rate of 6.25%, which are accumulated and paid quarterly. The per share stated value is $40,300 and the preferred stock ranks senior to our common stock as to dividends and liquidation rights.
Each share is convertible, at the holder s option, into 2,574.87 shares of our common stock with equal voting rights. The conversion option is indexed to our common stock and requires share settlement, and, therefore, is reported at the fair
value at the date of issuance. We may redeem the preferred stock at any time or upon termination of the Preferred ESOP, at our option, in cash, in shares of common stock or, a combination of both at a price of $40,300 per share.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             C. Employee Stock Ownership Plans       We have two employee stock ownership plans (collectively, the ESOPs), the
Preferred ESOP and another that holds common stock of the company (Common ESOP). As of January 1, 2008, the legacy Pharmacia U.S. savings plan was merged with the Pfizer Savings Plan. Prior to the merger, a portion of the matching contributions
for legacy Pharmacia U.S. savings plan participants was funded through the ESOPs.      Allocated shares held by the Common ESOP are considered outstanding
for the earnings per share (EPS) calculations and the eventual conversion of allocated preferred shares held by the Preferred ESOP is assumed in the diluted EPS calculation. As of December 31, 2010, the Preferred ESOP held preferred shares with
a stated value of approximately $52 million, convertible into approximately 3 million shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2010, the Common ESOP held approximately 4 million shares of our common stock. As of
December 31, 2010, all preferred and common shares held by the ESOPs have been allocated to the Pharmacia U.S. and certain Puerto Rico savings plan participants.       D. Employee Benefit Trust       The Pfizer Inc. Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) was established in 1999 to fund our
employee benefit plans through the use of its holdings of Pfizer Inc. stock. Our consolidated balance sheets reflect the fair value of the shares owned by the EBT as a reduction of  Shareholders  equity.  Beginning in May 2009, the Company
began using the shares held in the EBT to help fund the Company s matching contribution in the Pfizer Savings Plan.       15. Share-Based Payments
      Our compensation programs can include share-based payments. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, the primary share-based awards and their general terms and
conditions are as follows:       

Stock options, which, when vested, entitle the holder to purchase a specified number of shares of Pfizer common stock at a price per share equal to the market
price of Pfizer common stock on the date of grant.          

Restricted stock units (RSUs), which, when vested, entitle the holder to receive a specified number of shares of Pfizer common stock, including shares resulting
from dividend equivalents paid on such RSUs.          

Performance share awards (PSAs) which entitle the holder, and performance-contingent share awards (PCSAs) which entitled the holder, upon vesting, to receive a
number of shares of Pfizer common stock, within a range of shares from zero to 200% of the holder s target award, calculated using a formula that measures Pfizer s performance relative to an industry peer group over a specified performance
period. The Compensation Committee of the Company s Board of Directors had, with respect to PCSAs, and has, with respect to PSAs, discretion to authorize the payment of fewer shares to a holder than the number of shares determined pursuant to
the formula. Dividend equivalents accumulate on PSAs and are paid, and dividend equivalents accumulated on PCSAs and were paid, at the end of the vesting term in respect of any shares paid. PCSA grants were made prior to 2006 and have all been
settled.          

Short-term Incentive Shift Awards, which entitle the holder to receive a percentage of the holder s target award (between 0% and 200%) approximately one
year following the grant, based on a combination of individual performance and Company performance (as measured by revenue, adjusted diluted earnings per share and cash flow from operations) during the year in which the grant is made. At the
election of the holder, the award is paid: (i) in the case of the Executive Leadership Team (ELT) members (determined at the time of the grant ), all in RSUs, or half in RSUs and half in cash; and (ii) in the case of all other holders, all
in RSUs, all in cash, or half in RSUs and half in cash.          

Stock appreciation rights (SARs), also referred to as Total Shareholder Return Units (TSRUs), which vest on the third anniversary of the grant and entitle the
holder to receive, two years after the end of the three-year vesting term, a number of shares of Pfizer common stock with a value equal to the difference between the defined settlement price and the closing market price of Pfizer common stock on the
date of grant, plus accumulated dividend equivalents through the payment date, if and to the extent the total value is positive.         The
Company s shareholders approved the amendment and restatement of the 2004 Stock Plan at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on April 23, 2009. The primary purpose of the amendment was to increase the number of shares of common stock
available for grants by 425 million shares. In addition, the amendment provided other changes, including that the number of stock options, SARs or other performance-based awards that may be granted to any one individual during any 36-month
period is limited to eight million shares and that RSUs, PSAs and restricted stock grants count as two shares, while stock options and SARs count as one share, toward the maximums for the incremental 425 million shares. As of
December 31, 2010, 405 million shares were available for award. The 2004 Stock Plan, as amended, is the only Pfizer plan under which equity-based compensation may currently be awarded to executives and other employees.   
  The Company s shareholders originally approved the 2004 Stock Plan at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on April 22, 2004, and, effective upon that
approval, new stock option and other share-based awards could be granted only under the originally approved 2004 Stock Plan. As originally approved, the 2004 Stock Plan allowed a maximum of three million shares to be awarded to any employee per year
and 475 million shares in total. RSUs, PSAs, PCSAs and restricted stock grants counted as three shares, while stock options and SARs counted as one share, toward the maximums under the Plan.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            In the past, we had various employee stock and incentive plans under which stock options and other share-based awards were granted. Stock options and other share-based awards that were granted under prior plans and
were outstanding on April 22, 2004, continue in accordance with the terms of the respective plans.      Although not required to do so, we have used
authorized and unissued shares and, to a lesser extent, shares held in our Employee Benefit Trust and treasury stock to satisfy our obligations under these programs.       A. Impact on Net Income       The components of share-based compensation expense and the associated tax benefit
follow:       
    Amounts capitalized as part of inventory cost were not significant. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, the impact of modifications under our
cost-reduction initiatives to share-based awards was not significant. Generally, these modifications resulted in an acceleration of vesting, either in accordance with plan terms or at management s discretion.   
   B. Stock Options       Stock options, which, when vested, entitle
the holder to purchase a specified number of shares of Pfizer common stock at a price per share equal to the market price of Pfizer common stock on the date of grant, are accounted for using a fair-value-based method at the date of grant in the
consolidated statements of income. The values determined through this fair-value-based method generally are amortized on an even basis over the vesting term into  Cost of sales, Selling, informational and administrative expenses,  and
 Research and development expenses,  as appropriate.      All eligible employees may receive stock option grants. No stock options were awarded to
senior and other key management in 2010 or 2009; however, stock options were awarded to certain other employees. Except for stock options awarded to two executive officers at the time they joined Pfizer, no stock options were awarded to senior and
other key management in 2008. In virtually all instances, stock options granted since 2005 vest after three years of continuous service from the grant date and have a contractual term of 10 years. In most cases, stock options must be held for at
least one year from the grant date before any vesting may occur. In the event of a divestiture or restructuring, options held by employees are immediately vested and are exercisable for a period from three months to their remaining term, depending
on various conditions.      The fair-value-based method for valuing each stock option grant on the grant date uses, for virtually all grants, the
Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model, which incorporates a number of valuation assumptions noted in the following table, shown at their weighted-average values:       

(  a  )   
    Determined using a constant dividend yield during the expected term of the option.      

(  b  )   
    Determined using the interpolated yield on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues.      

(  c  )   
    Determined using implied volatility, after consideration of historical volatility.      

(  d  )   
    Determined using historical exercise and post-vesting termination patterns.      

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            The following table summarizes all stock option activity during 2010:       

(a  )   
    Market price of underlying Pfizer common stock less exercise price.      

(b  )   
    The number of options expected to vest takes into account an estimate of expected forfeitures.      
  The following table provides data related to all stock option activity:       
     C. Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)    
  RSUs, which, when vested, entitle the holder to receive a specified number of shares of Pfizer common stock, including shares resulting from dividend equivalents
paid on such RSUs, are accounted for using a fair-value-based method at the date of grant. For RSUs granted in 2010, 2009 and 2008, in virtually all instances, the units vest after three years of continuous service from the grant date and the values
determined using the fair-value-based method are amortized on an even basis over the vesting term into  Cost of sales, Selling, informational and administrative expenses  and  Research and development expenses,  as appropriate.   
  The value of each RSU grant is estimated on the grant date. The fair-value-based method utilizes the closing price of Pfizer common stock on the date of grant. The
following table summarizes all RSU activity during 2010:       
    The following table provides data related to all RSU activity:   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             D. Performance Share Awards (PSAs) and Performance-Contingent Share Awards (PCSAs)       Senior and other key
members of management may receive PSA grants and were eligible to receive PCSA grants. PSAs are accounted for using a fair-value-based method at the date of grant in the consolidated statements of income beginning with grants in 2006. Further, PSAs
generally are amortized on an even basis over the vesting term into  Cost of sales, Selling, informational and administrative expenses  and  Research and development expenses,  as appropriate. PCSAs, which have not been awarded since 2005,
were accounted for using the intrinsic value method in the consolidated statements of income. In most instances, PSA grants vest after three years, and PCSA grants vested after five years, of continuous service from the grant date. In certain
instances, PCSA grants vested over two to four years of continuous service from the grant date. The vesting terms are equal to the contractual terms.   
  PSAs entitle the holder, and PCSAs entitled the holder, upon vesting, to receive a number of shares of Pfizer common stock, within a range of shares from zero to
200% of the holder s target award, calculated using a formula that measures Pfizer s performance relative to an industry peer group over a specified performance period. PSA grants vest and are paid based on a formula that measures our
performance using total shareholder return over a specified performance period relative to an industry peer group. PSCA grants, which were made prior to 2006 and which have all been settled, vested and were paid based on a formula that measured our
performance using total shareholder return and the change in diluted EPS over a specified performance period relative to an industry peer group. The Compensation Committee of the Company s Board of Directors had, with respect to PCSAs, and has,
with respect to PSAs, discretion to authorize the payment of fewer shares to a holder than the number of shares determined pursuant to the applicable formula.      We measure PSA grants using a fair-value-based amount, which is derived from a Monte Carlo simulation model, times the target number of shares. The target number of shares is determined by reference to the fair
value of share-based awards to similar employees in the industry peer group. We measured PCSA grants at intrinsic value whereby the probable award was allocated over the term of the award, and then the resulting shares were adjusted to the fair
value of our common stock at each accounting period until the date of payment.      The weighted-average assumptions used in the valuation of PSAs are as
follows:       
        The following table summarizes all PSA and PCSA activity during
2010, with the shares granted representing the maximum award that could be achieved:       

(  a  )   
    Modifications include pro-ration of the awards for service to the date of termination for 15 former employees in 2010. The modifications were made at the
discretion of the Senior Vice President of Worldwide Human Resources, or her designee for 2010. There was no incremental cost related to the modifications.         The following table provides data related to all PSA and PCSA activity:       
     E. Total Shareholder Return Units (TSRUs)       Total Shareholder Return Units (TSRUs) (formerly known as Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs)) are awarded to senior and other key management. TSRUs entitle the holders to receive, two years after the end of the
three-year vesting term, a number of shares of our common stock with a value equal to the difference between the defined settlement price and the grant price, plus the dividends accumulated during the five-year term, if and to the extent the total
value is positive. The settlement price is the average closing   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            
price of Pfizer common stock during the 20 trading days ending on the fifth anniversary of the grant; the grant price is the closing price of Pfizer common stock on the date of the grant.
     The TSRUs are automatically settled on the fifth anniversary of the grant but vest on the third anniversary of the grant, after which time there no
longer is a risk of forfeiture, other than a loss or recapture due to a violation by the holder of the restrictive covenants set forth in the TSRU grant documents. TSRUs are accounted for using a fair-value-based method at the date of grant in the
consolidated statements of income and generally are amortized on an even basis over the vesting term into  Cost of sales, Selling, informational and administrative expenses  and  Research and development expenses,  as appropriate.
     The fair-value-based method for valuing the TSRUs uses the Monte Carlo simulation model. The model incorporates a number of valuation assumptions noted
in the following table, shown at their weighted-average values:       

(  a  )    
    Determined using a constant dividend yield during the expected term of the TSRU.      

(  b  )    
    Determined using the interpolated yield on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues.      

(  c  )    
    Determined using implied volatility, after consideration of historical volatility.      

(  d  )    
    Determined using the contractual term.         The
following summarizes all TSRU activity during 2010:       
    The following table provides data related to all TSRU activity:   

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,    

(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, EXCEPT PER TSRU AMOUNTS AND YEARS)  
        
   2010   

2009   

Weighted-average grant date fair value per TSRU   
        
   $   
   4.25   

$  
  4.26  

Total compensation cost related to nonvested TSRU grants not yet recognized, pre-tax   
        
   $   
   18   

$  
  23  

Weighted-average period in years over which TSRU cost is expected to be recognized   

1.5   

2.1  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             16. Earnings per Common Share Attributable to Common Shareholders       Basic and diluted EPS were computed using
the following common share data:       

(a)   
    These common stock equivalents were outstanding during 2010, 2009 and 2008 but were not included in the computation of diluted EPS for those years because their
inclusion would have had an anti-dilutive effect.          17. Lease Commitments    
  We lease properties and equipment for use in our operations. In addition to rent, the leases may require us to pay directly for taxes, insurance, maintenance and
other operating expenses or to pay higher rent when operating expenses increase. Rental expense, net of sublease income, was $394 million in 2010, $364 million in 2009 and $370 million in 2008. This table shows future minimum rental commitments
under non-cancelable operating leases as of December 31 for the following years:       
     18. Insurance       Our insurance
coverage reflects market conditions (including cost and availability) existing at the time it is written, and our decision to obtain insurance coverage or to self-insure varies accordingly. Depending upon the cost and availability of insurance and
the nature of the risk involved, the amount of self-insurance may be significant. The cost and availability of coverage have resulted in self-insuring certain exposures, including product liability. If we incur substantial liabilities that are not
covered by insurance or substantially exceed insurance coverage and that are in excess of existing accruals, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period (see  Note 19. Legal Proceedings and
Contingencies ).       19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies       We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial, securities, environmental and tax litigations and claims; government investigations; and other legal
proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. We do not believe any of them will have a material adverse effect on our financial position.      We record accruals for income tax contingencies to the extent that we conclude that a tax position is not sustainable under a  more- likely-than-not  standard, and we record our estimate of the potential
tax benefits in one tax jurisdiction that could result from the   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            
payment of income taxes in another tax jurisdiction when we conclude that the potential recovery is more likely than not. We record accruals for all other contingencies to the extent that we
conclude their occurrence is probable and the related damages are estimable, and we record anticipated recoveries under existing insurance contracts when assured of recovery. If a range of liability is probable and estimable and some amount within
the range appears to be a better estimate than any other amount within the range, we accrue that amount. If a range of liability is probable and estimable and no amount within the range appears to be a better estimate than any other amount within
the range, we accrue the minimum of such probable range. Many claims involve highly complex issues relating to causation, label warnings, scientific evidence, actual damages and other matters. Often these issues are subject to substantial
uncertainties and, therefore, the probability of loss and an estimation of damages are difficult to ascertain. Consequently, we cannot reasonably estimate the maximum potential exposure or the range of possible loss in excess of amounts accrued for
these contingencies. These assessments can involve a series of complex judgments about future events and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions (see  Note 1C. Significant Accounting Policies: Estimates and Assumptions ). Our assessments
are based on estimates and assumptions that have been deemed reasonable by management. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. Although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future
incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period.   
  Patent claims include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. Although we believe we have substantial defenses
to these challenges with respect to all our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the drug at issue, which could lead to a
significant loss of sales of that drug and could materially affect future results of operations.      Among the principal matters pending to which we are a
party are the following:       A. Patent Matters       Like
other pharmaceutical companies, we are involved in numerous suits relating to our patents, including but not limited to those discussed below. Most of the suits involve claims by generic drug manufacturers that patents covering our products,
processes or dosage forms are invalid and/or do not cover the product of the generic manufacturer. Also, counterclaims as well as various independent actions have been filed claiming that our assertions of, or attempts to enforce, our patent rights
with respect to certain products constitute unfair competition and/or violations of the antitrust laws. In addition to the challenges to the U.S. patents on a number of our products that are discussed below, we note that the patent rights to certain
of our products, including without limitation Lipitor, are being challenged in various other countries.       Lipitor (atorvastatin)    
  In November 2008, Apotex Inc. notified us that it had filed an abbreviated new drug application with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of
Lipitor. Apotex Inc. asserts the invalidity of our enantiomer patent, which (including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period) expires in June 2011, and the non-infringement of certain later-expiring patents. In December 2008, we filed suit
against Apotex Inc. in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware and the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois asserting the validity and infringement of the enantiomer patent. In August 2009, our action in the
District of Delaware was transferred to the Northern District of Illinois and consolidated with our pending action there.      In May 2009, Matrix
Laboratories Limited (Matrix), a subsidiary of Mylan Inc., notified us that it had filed an abbreviated new drug application with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of Lipitor. Matrix asserted the non-infringement of our
patent covering the crystalline form of atorvastatin, which (including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period) expires in 2017, and two other Lipitor patents. Matrix did not challenge our enantiomer patent. In June 2009, we filed actions
against Matrix, Mylan Inc. and another Mylan subsidiary in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware and the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of West Virginia asserting the infringement of the crystalline
patent and two process patents that expire in 2016. In November 2009, our action in the Northern District of West Virginia was transferred to the District of Delaware and consolidated with our pending action there. In January 2011, we
settled this action on terms that are confidential and not material to the Company.      In October 2009, Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Ltd. and
Dr. Reddy s Laboratories, Inc. (collectively, Dr. Reddy's) and KUDCO Ireland, Ltd. and Kremers Urban LLC (collectively, KUDCO) notified us that they had filed abbreviated new drug applications with the FDA seeking approval to market
generic versions of Lipitor. Both of the abbreviated new drug applications cover the 10, 20 and 40 mg dosage strengths, and KUDCO s abbreviated new drug application also covers the 80 mg dosage strength. Dr. Reddy s and KUDCO assert
the invalidity and/or non-infringement of our patent covering the crystalline form of atorvastatin and two other Lipitor patents. They have not challenged our enantiomer patent. In December 2009, we filed actions against Dr. Reddy s and
KUDCO in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware asserting the infringement of our crystalline patent. In addition, in December 2010, we filed an action against Dr. Reddy s in the same court asserting the infringement of the
same patent in connection with Dr. Reddy s additional abbreviated new drug application seeking approval to market a generic version of the 80 mg dosage strength.      In July 2010, Actavis, Inc. and Actavis Pharma Manufacturing Pvt. Ltd. (collectively, Actavis) notified us that they had filed an abbreviated new drug application with the FDA seeking approval to
market a generic version of Lipitor. Actavis asserts the non-infringement of our patent covering the crystalline form of atorvastatin and two other Lipitor patents. Actavis has not challenged our enantiomer patent. In August 2010, we
filed an action against Actavis in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware asserting the infringement of our crystalline patent.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             Caduet (atorvastatin/amlodipine combination)       In August 2009, Sandoz Inc., a division of Novartis AG (Sandoz),
notified us that it had filed an abbreviated new drug application with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of Caduet. In that filing and in a declaratory judgment action brought by Sandoz in October 2009 in the U.S. District Court
for the District of Colorado, collectively, Sandoz asserts the invalidity of our patent covering the atorvastatin/amlodipine combination, which expires in 2018, and the invalidity and non-infringement of three patents for Lipitor which (including
the six-month pediatric exclusivity period) expire between 2013 and 2017. Sandoz has not challenged our enantiomer patent for Lipitor. In October 2009, we filed suit against Sandoz in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware and the U.S.
District Court for the District of Colorado asserting the infringement of the atorvastatin/amlodipine combination patent. In February 2010, our action and Sandoz s action in the District of Colorado were transferred to the District of Delaware
and consolidated with our pending action there.      In December 2009, Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. notified us that it had filed an abbreviated new drug
application with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of Caduet. Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. asserted the invalidity of our patent covering the atorvastatin/amlodipine combination and the non-infringement of three patents for Lipitor
which (including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period) expire between 2013 and 2017. Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. did not challenge our enantiomer patent for Lipitor. In February 2010, we filed suit against Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. in the U.S.
District Court for the District of Delaware asserting the infringement of the atorvastatin/amlodipine combination patent. In January 2011, we settled this action. Under the settlement agreement, Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. will have certain rights to
launch a generic atorvastatin/amlodipine combination product in the U.S. beginning on November 30, 2011; other terms of the settlement agreement are confidential and not material to the Company.   
   Viagra (sildenafil)       In March 2010, we brought a
patent-infringement action in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia against Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva USA) and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (Teva Pharmaceutical Industries), which had filed an abbreviated new
drug application with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of Viagra. Teva USA and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries assert the invalidity and non-infringement of the Viagra use patent, which expires in 2019, but have not challenged the
basic patent, which expires in 2012.      In October 2010, we filed a patent-infringement action with respect to Viagra in the U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of New York against Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp., Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Mylan Inc., Actavis and Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC. These generic manufacturers have filed abbreviated new drug applications with the FDA seeking
approval to market their generic versions of Viagra. They assert the invalidity and non-infringement of the Viagra use patent, but have not challenged the basic patent.       Sutent (sunitinib malate)       In May 2010, Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. notified us that it had filed an abbreviated
new drug application with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of Sutent and challenging on various grounds the Sutent basic patent, which expires in 2021, and two other patents, which expire in 2020 and 2021. In June 2010, we filed
suit against Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware asserting the infringement of those three patents.   
   Detrol (tolterodine)       In March 2004, we brought a
patent-infringement suit in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey against Teva USA, which had filed an abbreviated new drug application with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of Detrol. In January 2007, Teva USA
withdrew its challenge to our patent, and the patent-infringement suit was dismissed. Also in January 2007, Ivax Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Ivax), a wholly owned subsidiary of Teva USA, amended its previously filed abbreviated new drug application for
tolterodine to challenge our basic patent for Detrol, and we brought a patent-infringement action against Ivax in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey. The basic patent (including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period) expires
in September 2012. In January 2010, the court issued a decision in our favor, upholding the basic patent. The court entered an order preventing the FDA from approving Ivax s abbreviated new drug application for Detrol before the expiration of
the basic patent in September 2012. Ivax and Teva USA have appealed the District Court s decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.       Detrol LA (tolterodine)       In October 2007 and January 2008, respectively, Teva USA and Impax Laboratories, Inc.
notified us that they had filed abbreviated new drug applications with the FDA seeking approval to market generic versions of Detrol LA, an extended-release formulation of Detrol (tolterodine). They are challenging on various grounds the basic
patent, which (including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period) expires in 2012, and three formulation patents, which (including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period) expire in 2020. We filed actions against them in the U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York asserting the infringement of the basic patent and two of the formulation patents. These actions subsequently were transferred to the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey.   
  In March 2008 and May 2010, respectively, Sandoz and Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. notified us that they had filed abbreviated new drug applications with the FDA
seeking approval to market generic versions of Detrol LA. They assert the invalidity and/or non-infringement of three formulation patents for Detrol LA. They have not challenged the basic patent. In June 2010, we filed actions against Sandoz and
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey asserting the infringement of two of the formulation patents.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             Lyrica (pregabalin)       Beginning in March 2009, several generic manufacturers notified us that they had filed
abbreviated new drug applications with the FDA seeking approval to market generic versions of Lyrica capsules. Each of the generic manufacturers is challenging one or more of three patents for Lyrica: the basic patent, which expires in 2018, and two
other patents, which expire in 2013 and 2018. Each of the generic manufacturers asserts the invalidity and/or the non-infringement of the patents subject to challenge. Beginning in April 2009, we filed actions against these generic manufacturers in
the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware asserting the infringement and validity of our patents for Lyrica. All of these cases have been consolidated in the District of Delaware.      In August and November 2010, respectively, Lupin Limited (Lupin) and Novel Laboratories, Inc. (Novel) notified us that they had filed abbreviated new drug applications with the FDA seeking approval to market
generic versions of Lyrica oral solution 20 mg/mL and asserting the invalidity and/or infringement of our three patents for Lyrica referred to above. In October 2010 and January 2011, respectively, we filed actions against Lupin and Novel in the
U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware asserting the validity and infringement of all three patents.      We also have filed patent-infringement
actions in Canada against certain generic manufacturers who are seeking approval to market generic versions of Lyrica capsules in that country.   
   Zyvox (linezolid)       In December 2009, Teva Parenteral
Medicines Inc. (Teva Parenteral) notified us that it had filed an abbreviated new drug application with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of Zyvox. Teva Parenteral asserts the invalidity and non-infringement of the basic Zyvox
patent, which (including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period) expires in 2015, and another patent that expires in 2021. In January 2010, we filed suit against Teva Parenteral in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware asserting
the infringement of the basic patent.       Chantix (varenicline)       In July 2010, we received notices from Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp. and from Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. that they had filed abbreviated new drug applications with the FDA seeking approval to market generic versions
of Chantix. They assert the invalidity of our patent covering the tartrate salt of varenicline and the non-infringement of our crystalline form patent, both of which expire in 2022. They have not challenged the basic patent, which expires in 2020.
In August 2010, we filed actions against Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp. and against Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York asserting the infringement of both of the challenged patents. In December
2010, both of these actions were voluntarily dismissed by us without prejudice.       Aricept (donepezil hydrochloride)    
  In October 2005, Teva USA notified Eisai Co., Ltd. (Eisai) that Teva USA had filed an abbreviated new drug application with the FDA challenging on various grounds
Eisai s basic patent for Aricept and seeking approval to market a generic version of Aricept. In December 2005, Eisai filed suit against Teva USA in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey asserting infringement of that patent.
This action was dismissed voluntarily in November 2010 upon the expiration of the basic patent. We co-promote Aricept with Eisai in the U.S., but we were not a party to Eisai s patent-infringement action.   
   Neurontin (gabapentin)       In August 2005, the U.S. District
Court for the District of New Jersey held that the generic gabapentin (Neurontin) products of a number of generic manufacturers did not infringe our gabapentin low-lactam patent, which expires in 2017, and it granted summary judgment in their favor.
Several generic manufacturers launched their gabapentin products in 2004 and 2005. In September 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit reversed the District Court s summary judgment decision and remanded the case to the
District Court for trial on the patent-infringement issue. If successful at trial, we intend to seek compensation from the generic manufacturers for damages resulting from their at-risk launches of generic gabapentin.   
   Relpax (eletriptan)       In June 2010, we received notices from
Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp. and from Teva USA that they had filed abbreviated new drug applications with the FDA seeking approval to market generic versions of Relpax. They assert the non-infringement of our patent covering the crystalline form of
eletriptan, which expires in 2017. They have not challenged the basic patent, which expires in 2016. In July 2010, we filed actions against Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp. and against Teva USA in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
York asserting the infringement of the crystalline patent.       Protonix (pantoprazole sodium)    
  Wyeth has a license to market Protonix in the U.S. from Nycomed GmbH (Nycomed), which owns the patents relating to Protonix. The basic patent (including the
six-month pediatric exclusivity period) for Protonix expired in January 2011.      Following their respective filings of abbreviated new drug applications
with the FDA, Teva USA and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, Sun Pharmaceutical Advanced Research Centre Ltd. and Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (collectively, Sun) and KUDCO Ireland, Ltd. (KUDCO Ireland) received final FDA approval to market
their generic versions of Protonix 20 mg and 40 mg delayed- release tablets. Wyeth and Nycomed filed actions against those generic manufacturers in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey, which subsequently were consolidated into a
single proceeding, alleging infringement of the basic patent and seeking declaratory and injunctive relief. Following the court's denial of a preliminary injunction sought by Wyeth and Nycomed, Teva USA and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries and Sun
launched their generic versions of Protonix tablets at risk in December 2007 and   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            
January 2008, respectively. Wyeth launched its own generic version of Protonix tablets in January 2008, and Wyeth and Nycomed filed amended complaints in the pending patent-infringement action
seeking compensation for damages resulting from Teva USA s, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries  and Sun's at-risk launches.      In April 2010, the
jury in the pending patent-infringement action upheld the validity of the basic patent for Protonix. In July 2010, the court upheld the jury verdict, but it did not issue a judgment against Teva USA, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries or Sun because of
their other claims relating to the patent that still are pending. Wyeth and Nycomed will continue to pursue all available legal remedies against those generic manufacturers, including compensation for damages resulting from their at-risk launches.
     Separately, Wyeth and Nycomed are defendants in purported class actions brought by direct and indirect purchasers of Protonix in the U.S. District
Court for the District of New Jersey. Plaintiffs seek damages, on behalf of the respective putative classes, for the alleged violation of antitrust laws in connection with the procurement and enforcement of the patents for Protonix. These purported
class actions have been stayed pending resolution of the underlying patent litigation in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey.   
   Rapamune (sirolimus)       In March 2010, Watson Laboratories,
Inc. (Watson) and Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited (Ranbaxy) notified us that they had filed abbreviated new drug applications with the FDA seeking approval to market generic versions of Rapamune. Watson and Ranbaxy assert the invalidity and
non-infringement of a method-of-use patent which (including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period) expires in 2014 and a solid-dosage formulation patent which (including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period) expires in 2018. In April
2010, we filed actions against Watson and Ranbaxy in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware and against Watson in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida asserting the infringement of the method-of-use patent. In
June 2010, our action in the Southern District of Florida was transferred to the District of Delaware and consolidated with our pending action there.   
   ReFacto and Xyntha       In February 2008, Novartis Vaccines and
Diagnostics, Inc. (Novartis) filed suit against Wyeth and a subsidiary of Wyeth in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that Wyeth s ReFacto and Xyntha products infringe two Novartis patents. Novartis s
complaint seeks damages, including treble damages, for alleged willful infringement. Wyeth and its subsidiary assert, among other things, the invalidity and non-infringement of the Novartis patents. In November 2009, Novartis added a third patent to
its infringement claim against Wyeth and its subsidiary. In August 2010, Novartis granted Wyeth and its subsidiary a covenant not to sue on the third patent and withdrew that patent from its pending action.   
  In May 2008, a subsidiary of Wyeth filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware against Novartis seeking a declaration that the two
Novartis patents initially asserted against Wyeth and its subsidiary in the action referred to in the preceding paragraph are invalid on the ground that the Wyeth subsidiary was the first to invent the subject matter. In February 2010, the District
of Delaware declined to invalidate those two Novartis patents. In March 2010, the Wyeth subsidiary appealed the decision to the U.S Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.       Tygacil (tigecycline)       In October 2009, Sandoz notified Wyeth that it had filed an abbreviated new drug
application with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of Tygacil. Sandoz asserts the invalidity and non-infringement of two of Wyeth s patents relating to Tygacil, including the basic patent, which expires in 2016. In December
2009, Wyeth filed suit against Sandoz in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware asserting infringement of the basic patent.       B. Product
Litigation       Like other pharmaceutical companies, we are defendants in numerous cases, including but not limited to those discussed below, related to
our pharmaceutical and other products. Plaintiffs in these cases seek damages and other relief on various grounds for alleged personal injury and economic loss.       Asbestos        

Quigley         Quigley Company, Inc. (Quigley), a
wholly owned subsidiary, was acquired by Pfizer in 1968 and sold small amounts of products containing asbestos until the early 1970s. In September 2004, Pfizer and Quigley took steps that were intended to resolve all pending and future claims
against Pfizer and Quigley in which the claimants allege personal injury from exposure to Quigley products containing asbestos, silica or mixed dust. We recorded a charge of $369 million pre-tax ($229 million after-tax) in the third quarter of 2004
in connection with these matters.      In September 2004, Quigley filed a petition in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York seeking
reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In March 2005, Quigley filed a reorganization plan in the Bankruptcy Court that needed the approval of both the Bankruptcy Court and the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
New York after receipt of the vote of 75% of the claimants. In connection with that filing, Pfizer entered into settlement agreements with lawyers representing more than 80% of the individuals with claims related to Quigley products against Quigley
and Pfizer. The agreements provide for a total of $430 million in payments, of which $215 million became due in December 2005 and is being paid to claimants upon receipt by the Company of certain required documentation from each of the claimants.
The reorganization plan provided for the establishment of a Trust (the Trust) for the payment of all remaining pending claims as well as any future claims alleging injury from exposure to Quigley products.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            In February 2008, the Bankruptcy Court authorized Quigley to solicit an amended reorganization plan for acceptance by claimants. According to the official report filed with the court by the balloting agent in July
2008, the requisite number of votes was cast in favor of the amended plan of reorganization.      The Bankruptcy Court held a confirmation hearing with
respect to Quigley s amended plan of reorganization that concluded in December 2009. In September 2010, the Bankruptcy Court declined to confirm the amended reorganization plan. Pfizer and Quigley are seeking to address the Bankruptcy
Court s concerns regarding the amended reorganization plan and currently intend to submit a revised plan for consideration by the court. There is no assurance that such a revised plan will be submitted or that, if submitted, it will be approved
by the Bankruptcy Court. As a result of the foregoing, Pfizer recorded additional charges for this matter of approximately $1.3 billion pre-tax (approximately $800 million after-tax) in 2010. Further, in order to preserve its right to address
certain legal issues raised in the court s opinion, in October 2010, Pfizer filed a notice of appeal and motion for leave to appeal the Bankruptcy Court s decision denying confirmation.   
  In a separately negotiated transaction with an insurance company in August 2004, we agreed to a settlement related to certain insurance coverage which provides for
payments to us over a ten-year period of amounts totaling $405 million.       

Other Matters         Between 1967 and 1982,
Warner-Lambert owned American Optical Corporation, which manufactured and sold respiratory protective devices and asbestos safety clothing. In connection with the sale of American Optical in 1982, Warner-Lambert agreed to indemnify the purchaser for
certain liabilities, including certain asbestos-related and other claims. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 88,000 claims naming American Optical and numerous other defendants were pending in various federal and state courts seeking
damages for alleged personal injury from exposure to asbestos and other allegedly hazardous materials. Warner-Lambert is actively engaged in the defense of, and will continue to explore various means to resolve, these claims.   
  Warner-Lambert and American Optical brought suit in state court in New Jersey against the insurance carriers that provided coverage for the asbestos and other
allegedly hazardous materials claims related to American Optical. A majority of the carriers subsequently agreed to pay for a portion of the costs of defending and resolving those claims. The litigation continues against the carriers who have
disputed coverage or how costs should be allocated to their policies, and the court held that Warner-Lambert and American Optical are entitled to coverage by those carriers of a portion of the costs associated with those claims. The case is now in
the allocation phase, in which the court will determine the amounts currently due from the carriers who have disputed coverage or allocation as well as their respective coverage obligations going forward.   
  Numerous lawsuits are pending against Pfizer in various federal and state courts seeking damages for alleged personal injury from exposure to products containing
asbestos and other allegedly hazardous materials sold by Gibsonburg Lime Products Company (Gibsonburg). Gibsonburg was acquired by Pfizer in the 1960s and sold small amounts of products containing asbestos until the early 1970s.   
  There also is a small number of lawsuits pending in various federal and state courts seeking damages for alleged exposure to asbestos in facilities owned or
formerly owned by Pfizer or its subsidiaries.       Celebrex and Bextra    

Securities and ERISA Actions         Beginning in late
2004, actions, including purported class actions, were filed in various federal and state courts against Pfizer, Pharmacia Corporation (Pharmacia) and certain current and former officers, directors and employees of Pfizer and Pharmacia. These
actions include (i) purported class actions alleging that Pfizer and certain current and former officers of Pfizer violated federal securities laws by misrepresenting the safety of Celebrex and Bextra, and (ii) purported class actions
filed by persons who claim to be participants in the Pfizer or Pharmacia Savings Plan alleging that Pfizer and certain current and former officers, directors and employees of Pfizer or, where applicable, Pharmacia and certain former officers,
directors and employees of Pharmacia, violated certain provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) by selecting and maintaining Pfizer stock as an investment alternative when it allegedly no longer was a suitable or
prudent investment option. In June 2005, the federal securities and ERISA actions were transferred for consolidated pre-trial proceedings to a Multi-District Litigation ( In re Pfizer Inc. Securities, Derivative and "ERISA" Litigation
MDL-1688 ) in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York.       

Securities Action in New Jersey         In 2003,
several purported class action complaints were filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey against Pharmacia, Pfizer and certain former officers of Pharmacia. The complaints allege that the defendants violated federal securities
laws by misrepresenting the data from a study concerning the gastrointestinal effects of Celebrex. These cases were consolidated for pre-trial proceedings in the District of New Jersey ( Alaska Electrical Pension Fund et al. v. Pharmacia
Corporation et al .). In January 2007, the court certified a class consisting of all persons who purchased Pharmacia securities from April 17, 2000 through February 6, 2001 and were damaged as a result of the decline in the price of
Pharmacia's securities allegedly attributable to the misrepresentations. Plaintiffs seek damages in an unspecified amount.      In October 2007, the court
granted defendants  motion for summary judgment and dismissed the plaintiffs  claims. In November 2007, the plaintiffs appealed the decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. In January 2009, the Third Circuit vacated the
District Court s grant of summary judgment in favor of defendants and remanded the case to the District Court for further proceedings. The Third Circuit also held that the District Court erred in determining that the class period ended on
February 6, 2001, and directed that the class period end on August 5, 2001. In June 2009, the District Court stayed proceedings in the case pending a   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            
determination by the U.S. Supreme Court with regard to defendants  petition for certiorari seeking reversal of the Third Circuit s decision. In May 2010, the U.S. Supreme Court denied
defendants  petition for certiorari, and the case has been remanded to the District Court for further proceedings.       

Other         Pfizer and several predecessor and
affiliated companies, including Monsanto Company (Monsanto), are defendants in an action brought by Brigham Young University (BYU) and a BYU professor in the U.S. District Court for the District of Utah alleging, among other things, breach by
Monsanto of a 1991 research agreement with BYU. Plaintiffs claim that research under that agreement led to the discovery of Celebrex and that, as a result, they are entitled to a share of the profits from Celebrex sales. Plaintiffs seek, among other
things, compensatory and punitive damages.       Various Drugs: Off-Label Promotion Actions    

Shareholder Derivative Actions         Beginning in
September 2009, a number of shareholder derivative actions were filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of New York, and the Court of Chancery of the State of
Delaware against certain of our current and former officers and directors. Pfizer is named as a nominal defendant. These actions allege that the individual defendants breached fiduciary duties by, among other things, causing or allowing
Pfizer to engage in off-label promotion of certain drugs, including Bextra. Damages in unspecified amounts and other unspecified relief are sought on behalf of Pfizer. In November 2009, the federal cases were consolidated in the Southern
District of New York ( In re Pfizer Inc Shareholder Derivative Litigation ).      In June 2010, the action in state court in New York was stayed pending
the outcome of the consolidated federal action. In July 2010, the plaintiffs appealed the stay order to the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of the State of New York. In August and September 2010, respectively, the two actions in state court
in Delaware were stayed pending the outcome of the consolidated federal action.      In December 2010, the court in the consolidated federal action granted
preliminary approval of a settlement agreement among the parties and scheduled a hearing in March 2011 to consider final approval. Subject to final court approval, the settlement agreement provides, among other things, that (i) Pfizer will
create a new Regulatory and Compliance Committee of its Board of Directors to monitor the Company s compliance with applicable legal and regulatory healthcare requirements, and (ii) the Company s directors and officers liability
insurance carriers will establish a $75 million fund, a portion of which will be used to pay the plaintiffs  legal fees and expenses and the balance of which will be available to fund the activities of the new Regulatory and Compliance
Committee for a period of five years. In connection with the settlement agreement, the defendants denied any wrongdoing related to the claims asserted in the action.       

Securities Action         In May 2010, a purported
class action was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against Pfizer and several of our current and former officers. The complaint alleges that the defendants violated federal securities laws by failing to disclose
that Pfizer was engaged in off-label marketing of certain drugs. Plaintiffs seek damages in an unspecified amount.       

Actions by Health Care Service Corporation         In
June 2010, Health Care Service Corporation (HCSC), for itself and its affiliates, Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans in Illinois, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas, filed an action against us in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.
In July 2010, HCSC amended its complaint. The complaint, as amended, alleges that we engaged in deceptive marketing activities, including off-label promotion, and the payment of improper remuneration to health care professionals with respect to
Bextra and Celebrex in violation of, among other things, the federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (RICO) Act and the Illinois Consumer Fraud Act. In December 2010, this action was transferred to the Multi-District Litigation ( In
re Celebrex and Bextra Marketing, Sales Practices and Product Liability Litigation MDL-1699 ) in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. In July 2010, HCSC also filed a separate lawsuit against us in the U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District of Texas including substantially similar allegations regarding Geodon, Lyrica and Zyvox. In both actions, HCSC seeks to recover the amounts that it paid for the specified drugs on behalf of its members in Illinois, New
Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas, as well as treble damages and punitive damages.       Hormone-Replacement Therapy    
  Pfizer and certain wholly owned subsidiaries and limited liability companies, including Wyeth, along with several other pharmaceutical manufacturers, have been
named as defendants in numerous lawsuits in various federal and state courts alleging personal injury resulting from the use of certain estrogen and progestin medications primarily prescribed for women to treat the symptoms of menopause. Plaintiffs
in these suits allege a variety of personal injuries, including breast cancer, ovarian cancer, stroke and heart disease. Certain co-defendants in some of these actions have asserted indemnification rights against Pfizer and its affiliated companies.
The cases against Pfizer and its affiliated companies involve one or more of the following products, all of which remain approved by the FDA: femhrt (which Pfizer divested in 2003); Activella and Vagifem (which are Novo Nordisk products that were
marketed by a Pfizer affiliate from 2000 to 2004); Premarin, Prempro, Aygestin, Cycrin and Premphase (which are legacy Wyeth products); and Provera, Ogen, Depo-Estradiol, Estring and generic MPA (which are legacy Pharmacia   Upjohn
products). The federal cases have been transferred for consolidated pre-trial proceedings to a Multi-District Litigation ( In re Prempro Products Liability Litigation MDL-1507 ) in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas.
Certain of the federal cases have been remanded to their respective District Courts for further proceedings including, if necessary, trial.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            This litigation originally included both individual actions as well as various purported nationwide and statewide class actions. However, as a result of the denial of class certification by the courts in certain
actions, the voluntary dismissal by the plaintiffs of certain purported class actions and the withdrawal of the class action allegations by the plaintiffs in certain other actions, this litigation now consists of individual actions, a few purported
statewide class actions and a purported nationwide class action in Canada.      Pfizer and its affiliated companies, including Wyeth, have prevailed in many
of the hormone-replacement therapy actions that have been resolved to date, whether by voluntary dismissal by the plaintiffs, summary judgment, defense verdict or judgment notwithstanding the verdict; a number of these cases have been appealed by
the plaintiffs. Certain other hormone-replacement therapy actions have resulted in verdicts for the plaintiffs and have included the award of compensatory and, in some instances, punitive damages; each of these cases has been appealed by Pfizer
and/or its affiliated companies. The decisions in a few of the cases that had been appealed by Pfizer and/or its affiliated companies have been upheld by the appellate courts, while several other cases that had been appealed by Pfizer and/or its
affiliated companies or by the plaintiffs have been sent back by the appellate courts to their respective trial courts for further proceedings. In addition, a number of hormone-replacement therapy actions have been settled by the parties in advance
of trial. Trials of additional hormone-replacement therapy actions are scheduled for 2011.      Pfizer and/or its affiliated companies also have received
inquiries from various federal and state agencies and officials relating to the marketing of their hormone-replacement products. In November 2008, the State of Nevada filed an action against Pfizer, Pharmacia   Upjohn Company and Wyeth in
state court in Nevada alleging that they had engaged in deceptive marketing of their respective hormone-replacement therapy medications in Nevada in violation of the Nevada Deceptive Trade Practices Act. The action seeks monetary relief, including
civil penalties and treble damages. In February 2010, the action was dismissed by the court on the grounds that the statute of limitations had expired. In March 2010, the State of Nevada appealed the court s ruling to the Nevada Supreme Court.
      Zoloft and Effexor       A number of individual
lawsuits, as well as a multi-plaintiff lawsuit with respect to Effexor, have been filed against us and/or our subsidiaries in various federal and state courts alleging personal injury as a result of the purported ingesting of Zoloft or Effexor.
      Trovan       In 2009, we entered into agreements with
the Federal Government of Nigeria and the State of Kano, Nigeria, to resolve all of the civil and criminal cases pending against us in Nigeria related to the pediatric clinical study of Trovan that we conducted in Kano during a severe meningitis
epidemic in 1996. In 2010, a lawsuit was filed in Nigeria against the State of Kano and us, among others, on behalf of individuals who claim to be former study participants or the parents or guardians of former study participants. The plaintiffs
sought to enjoin the part of the settlement agreement with the State of Kano that established a fund to compensate former study participants and the parents and guardians of former study participants for alleged injuries, and the plaintiffs also
sought damages for those alleged injuries. In February 2011, the parties to this action and the parties to two substantially similar actions against us in the U.S. entered into an agreement providing for the settlement and dismissal with prejudice
of all three actions on terms that are not material to Pfizer. The settlement agreement is subject to our receipt of releases from all of the plaintiffs in the cases.       Neurontin       A number of lawsuits, including purported class actions, have been filed against us in various
federal and state courts alleging claims arising from the promotion and sale of Neurontin. The plaintiffs in the purported class actions seek to represent nationwide and certain statewide classes consisting of persons, including individuals, health
insurers, employee benefit plans and other third-party payers, who purchased or reimbursed patients for the purchase of Neurontin that allegedly was used for indications other than those included in the product labeling approved by the FDA. In 2004,
many of the suits pending in federal courts, including individual actions as well as purported class actions, were transferred for consolidated pre-trial proceedings to a Multi-District Litigation ( In re Neurontin Marketing, Sales Practices and
Product Liability Litigation MDL-1629 ) in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. Purported class actions also have been filed against us in various Canadian provincial courts alleging claims arising from the promotion and
sale of Neurontin and generic gabapentin.      In the Multi-District Litigation, in 2009, the court denied the plaintiffs  renewed motion for
certification of a nationwide class of all consumers and third-party payers who allegedly purchased or reimbursed patients for the purchase of Neurontin for off-label uses from 1994 through 2004. The plaintiffs have filed a motion for
reconsideration. Although the court has not yet ruled on the motion for reconsideration, in December 2010, the court partially granted the Company s motion for summary judgment, dismissing the claims of all of the proposed class representatives
for third-party payers and two of the six proposed class representatives for individual consumers. One of the proposed class representatives for third-party payers has filed a motion for reconsideration.   
  Plaintiffs are seeking certification of statewide classes of Neurontin purchasers in actions pending in California, Illinois and Oklahoma. State courts in New York,
Pennsylvania, Missouri and New Mexico have declined to certify statewide classes of Neurontin purchasers.     In January 2011, the U.S. District Court for
the District of Massachusetts entered an order affirming a jury verdict against us in an action by a third-party payer seeking damages for the alleged off-label promotion of Neurontin in violation of the federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations (RICO) Act and California s Unfair Trade Practices law. The verdict was for $47.4 million, which is subject to automatic trebling to $142.2 million under the RICO Act. In November 2010, the court had entered a separate verdict
against us in the amount of $65.4 million under California s Unfair Trade Practices law relating to the same alleged conduct, which amount is included within and is not additional to the $142.2 million trebled amount of the jury verdict. We
intend to appeal both verdicts and believe we have good grounds for reversal.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            A number of individual lawsuits have been filed against us in various U.S. federal and state courts and in certain other countries alleging suicide, attempted suicide and other personal injuries as a result of the
purported ingesting of Neurontin. Certain of the U.S. federal actions have been transferred for consolidated pre-trial proceedings to the same Multi-District Litigation referred to in the first paragraph of this section. In addition, in February
2010 in a proceeding pending in Ontario, Canada, the court certified a class consisting of all persons in Canada, except in Quebec, who purchased and ingested Neurontin prior to August 2004. The plaintiffs claim that Pfizer failed to provide
adequate warning of the alleged risks of personal injury associated with Neurontin. The parties have jointly sought court approval to include in this proceeding two purported province-wide class actions pending in Quebec that include substantially
similar allegations.       Lipitor       In 2004, a former
employee filed a  whistleblower  action against us in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York. The complaint remained under seal until September 2007, at which time the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New
York declined to intervene in the case. We were served with the complaint in December 2007. Plaintiff alleges that, through patient and medical education programs, written materials and other actions aimed at doctors, consumers, payers and
investors, the Company promoted Lipitor for use by certain patients contrary to national cholesterol guidelines that plaintiff claims are a part of the labeled indications for the product. Plaintiff alleges violations of the Federal Civil False
Claims Act and the false claims acts of certain states and seeks treble damages and civil penalties on behalf of the federal government and the specified states as the result their purchase, or reimbursement of patients for the purchase, of Lipitor
allegedly for such off-label uses. Plaintiff also seeks compensation as a whistleblower under those federal and state statutes. In addition, plaintiff alleges that he was wrongfully terminated, in violation of the anti-retaliation provisions of the
Federal Civil False Claims Act, the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and applicable New York law, for raising concerns about the alleged off-label promotion of Lipitor and about alleged instances of sexual harassment in the workplace, and he seeks damages
and the reinstatement of his employment. In 2009, the court dismissed without prejudice the claims alleging violations of the Federal Civil False Claims Act and the false claims acts of certain states. In 2010, plaintiff filed an amended complaint
containing allegations concerning violations of the Federal Civil False Claims Act and the false claims acts of certain states that are substantially similar to the allegations in the original complaint.   
   Chantix/Champix       A number of individual lawsuits have been
filed against us in various federal and state courts alleging suicide, attempted suicide and other personal injuries as a result of the purported ingesting of Chantix, as well as economic loss. Plaintiffs in these actions seek compensatory and
punitive damages and the disgorgement of profits resulting from the sale of Chantix. In October 2009, the federal cases were transferred for consolidated pre-trial proceedings to a Multi-District Litigation ( In re Chantix (Varenicline) Products
Liability Litigation  MDL-2092) in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama.      Beginning in December 2008, purported class actions
were filed against us in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice (Toronto Region), the Superior Court of Quebec (District of Montreal), the Court of Queen s Bench of Alberta, Judicial District of Calgary, and the Superior Court of British
Columbia (Vancouver Registry) on behalf of all individuals and third-party payers in Canada who have purchased and ingested Champix or reimbursed patients for the purchase of Champix. Each of these actions asserts claims under Canadian product
liability law, including with respect to the safety and efficacy of Champix, and, on behalf of the putative class, seeks monetary relief, including punitive damages. The actions in Quebec, Alberta and British Columbia have been stayed pending the
decision regarding class certification in the Ontario action.       Bapineuzumab       In June 2010, a purported class action was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey against Pfizer, as successor to Wyeth, and several former officers of Wyeth. The complaint alleges that
Wyeth and the individual defendants violated federal securities laws by making or causing Wyeth to make false and misleading statements, and by failing to disclose or causing Wyeth to fail to disclose material information, concerning the results of
a clinical trial involving bapineuzumab, a product in development for the treatment of Alzheimer s disease. The plaintiff seeks to represent a class consisting of all persons who purchased Wyeth securities from May 21, 2007 through July
2008 and seeks damages in an unspecified amount on behalf of the purported class.      In July 2010, a related action was filed in the U.S. District Court
for the Southern District of New York against Elan Corporation (Elan), certain directors and officers of Elan, and Pfizer, as successor to Wyeth. This action asserts claims on behalf of purchasers of call options of Elan, a company that
jointly developed bapineuzumab with Wyeth until September 2009. The complaint alleges that Elan, Wyeth and the individual defendants violated federal securities laws by making or causing Elan to make false and misleading statements,
and by failing to disclose or causing Elan to fail to disclose material information, concerning the results of a clinical trial involving bapineuzumab. The plaintiff seeks to represent a class consisting of all persons who purchased Elan
call options from June 17, 2008 through July 29, 2008 and seeks damages in an unspecified amount on behalf of the purported class.   
   Thimerosal       Wyeth is a defendant in a number of suits by or
on behalf of vaccine recipients alleging that exposure through vaccines to cumulative doses of thimerosal, a preservative used in certain childhood vaccines formerly manufactured and distributed by Wyeth and other vaccine manufacturers, caused
severe neurological damage and/or autism in children. While several suits were filed as purported nationwide or statewide class actions, all of the purported class actions have been dismissed, either by the courts or voluntarily by the plaintiffs.
In addition to the suits alleging injury from exposure to thimerosal, certain of the cases were brought by parents in their individual capacities for, among other things, loss of services and loss of consortium of the injured child.   
  The National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act (the Vaccine Act) requires that persons alleging injury from childhood vaccines first file a petition in the U.S. Court of
Federal Claims asserting a vaccine-related injury. At the conclusion of that proceeding, petitioners may bring a lawsuit against the manufacturer in federal or state court, provided that they have satisfied certain procedural requirements. Also
under the terms of the Vaccine Act, if a petition has not been adjudicated by the U.S. Court of Federal Claims within a specified time period after filing, the petitioner may opt out of the proceeding and pursue a lawsuit against the manufacturer by
following   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            
certain procedures. Some of the vaccine recipients who have sued Wyeth to date may not have satisfied the conditions to filing a lawsuit that are mandated by the Vaccine Act. The claims brought
by parents for, among other things, loss of services and loss of consortium of the injured child are not covered by the Vaccine Act.      In 2002, the Office
of Special Masters of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims established an Omnibus Autism Proceeding with jurisdiction over petitions in which vaccine recipients claim to suffer from autism or autism spectrum disorder as a result of receiving
thimerosal-containing childhood vaccines and/or the measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine. There currently are several thousand petitions pending in the Omnibus Autism Proceeding. Special masters of the court have heard six test cases on
petitioners  theories that either thimerosal-containing vaccines in combination with the MMR vaccine or thimerosal-containing vaccines alone can cause autism or autism spectrum disorder.   

In February 2009, special masters of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims rejected the three cases brought on the theory that a combination of MMR and
thimerosal-containing vaccines caused petitioners  conditions. After these rulings were affirmed by the U.S. Court of Federal Claims, two of them were appealed by petitioners to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. In 2010, the
Federal Circuit affirmed the decisions of the special masters in both of these cases.          

In March 2010, special masters of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims rejected the three additional test cases brought on the theory that thimerosal-containing
vaccines alone caused petitioners  conditions. Petitioners did not seek review by the U.S. Court of Federal Claims of the decisions of the special masters in these latter three test cases, and judgments were entered dismissing the cases in
April 2010.          

Petitioners in each of the six test cases have filed an election to bring a civil action.      
   Pristiq       In late 2007 and early 2008, the following actions
were filed in various federal courts: (i) a purported class action alleging that Wyeth and certain former officers of Wyeth violated federal securities laws by misrepresenting the safety of Pristiq during the period before the FDA s
issuance in July 2007 of an  approvable letter  for Pristiq for the treatment of vasomotor symptoms, which allegedly caused a decline in the price of Wyeth stock; (ii) a shareholder derivative action alleging that certain former
officers of Wyeth and certain former directors of Wyeth, two of whom are now directors of Pfizer, breached fiduciary duties and violated federal securities laws by virtue of the aforementioned alleged misrepresentation; and (iii) a purported
class action against Wyeth, the Wyeth Savings Plan Committee, the Wyeth Savings Plan-Puerto Rico Committee, the Wyeth Retirement Committee and certain former Wyeth officers and committee members alleging that they violated certain provisions of
ERISA by maintaining Wyeth stock as an investment alternative under certain Wyeth plans notwithstanding their alleged knowledge of the aforementioned alleged misrepresentation.      The U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York dismissed the ERISA action and denied the plaintiff s motion to amend the complaint in March and August 2010, respectively. In September 2010, the
plaintiff appealed both of those rulings to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. In November 2010, the plaintiff withdrew the appeal, but reserved the right to reinstate the appeal by June 2011. In addition, in January 2011, the
shareholder derivative action was voluntarily dismissed by the plaintiff. The purported securities class action remains pending.       C. Commercial and
Other Matters        Acquisition of Wyeth       In 2009,
a number of retail pharmacies in California brought an action against Pfizer and Wyeth in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. The plaintiffs allege, among other things, that our acquisition of Wyeth violates various
federal antitrust laws by creating a monopoly in the manufacture, distribution and sale of prescription drugs in the U.S. In April 2010, the court granted our motion to dismiss the second amended complaint, and the plaintiffs filed a notice of
appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.       Acquisition of King Pharmaceuticals, Inc.    
  In October 2010, several purported class action complaints were filed in federal and state court in Tennessee by shareholders of King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (King)
challenging Pfizer s acquisition of King. King and the individuals who served as the members of King s Board of Directors at the time of the execution of the merger agreement (the King Director Defendants) are named as defendants in all of
these actions; Pfizer and Parker Tennessee Corp., a subsidiary of Pfizer, also are named as defendants in most of these actions. The plaintiffs generally allege that (i) the King Director Defendants breached their fiduciary duties to King and
its shareholders by authorizing the sale of King to Pfizer for what plaintiffs deem inadequate consideration, and (ii) King and, in the actions in which they are named as defendants, Pfizer and Parker Tennessee Corp. breached and/or aided and
abetted the other defendants' alleged breaches of fiduciary duties. The complaint filed in federal court also alleges that King's Schedule 14D-9 recommendation statement for the tender offer contains false statements and omissions of material fact
in violation of Sections 14(d)(4) and 14(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The plaintiffs in all of these actions seek damages and rescission the transaction. In November 2010, all of the actions filed in state court were consolidated in
the Chancery Court for Sullivan County, Tennessee Second Judicial District, at Bristol. The parties to the consolidated state court action have reached an agreement in principle to resolve that action as a result of certain disclosures regarding the
transaction made by King in its amended Schedule 14D-9 recommendation statement for the tender offer dated January 21, 2011. The proposed settlement is subject to, among other things, court approval.   
   Average Wholesale Price Litigation       A number of states as
well as most counties in New York have sued Pharmacia, Pfizer and other pharmaceutical manufacturers alleging that they provided average wholesale price (AWP) information for certain of their products that was higher than the actual prices at which
those products were sold. The AWP is used to determine reimbursement levels under Medicare Part B and Medicaid and in many private-sector insurance policies and medical plans. The plaintiffs claim that the alleged spread between the AWPs at

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
            
which purchasers were reimbursed and the actual sale prices was promoted by the defendants as an incentive to purchase certain of their products. In addition to suing on their own behalf, many of
the plaintiff states seek to recover on behalf of individual Medicare Part B co-payers and private-sector insurance companies and medical plans in their states. These various actions generally assert fraud claims as well as claims under state
deceptive trade practice laws, and seek monetary and other relief, including civil penalties and treble damages. Several of the suits also allege that Pharmacia and/or Pfizer did not report to the states their best price for certain products under
the Medicaid program.      In addition, Pharmacia, Pfizer and other pharmaceutical manufacturers are defendants in a number of purported class action suits
in various federal and state courts brought by employee benefit plans and other third-party payers that assert claims similar to those in the state and county actions. These suits allege, among other things, fraud, unfair competition and unfair
trade practices and seek monetary and other relief, including civil penalties and treble damages.      All of these state, county and purported class action
suits were transferred for consolidated pre-trial proceedings to a Multi-District Litigation ( In re Pharmaceutical Industry Average Wholesale Price Litigation MDL-1456 ) in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. Certain of
the state and private suits have been remanded to their respective state courts. In 2006, the claims against Pfizer in the Multi-District Litigation were dismissed with prejudice; the claims against Pharmacia are still pending.   
  In 2008, the court in the Multi-District Litigation granted preliminary approval with respect to the fairness of a proposed settlement of the claims against 11
defendants, including Pharmacia, for a total of $125 million. It is expected that the court will consider final approval of the settlement later this year. If the settlement is approved, Pharmacia s contribution would not be material.
     In addition, Wyeth is a defendant in AWP actions brought by certain states, which are not included in the Multi-District Litigation, as well as AWP
actions brought by most counties in New York, almost all of which are included in the Multi-District Litigation. Wyeth also is a defendant in a purported class action in state court in New Jersey brought by two union health and welfare plans on
behalf of a putative class consisting of third-party payers, certain consumers and Medicare beneficiaries. These actions against Wyeth would not be included in the proposed settlement referred to in the previous paragraph.   
   Monsanto-Related Matters       In 1997, Monsanto Company (Former
Monsanto) contributed certain chemical manufacturing operations and facilities to a newly formed corporation, Solutia Inc. (Solutia), and spun off the shares of Solutia. In 2000, Former Monsanto merged with Pharmacia   Upjohn Company to
form Pharmacia Corporation (Pharmacia). Pharmacia then transferred its agricultural operations to a newly created subsidiary, named Monsanto Company (New Monsanto), which it spun off in a two-stage process that was completed in 2002. Pharmacia was
acquired by Pfizer in 2003 and is now a wholly owned subsidiary of Pfizer.      In connection with its spin-off that was completed in 2002, New Monsanto
assumed, and agreed to indemnify Pharmacia for, any liabilities related to Pharmacia s former agricultural business. New Monsanto is defending and indemnifying Pharmacia for various claims and litigation arising out of, or related to, the
agricultural business.      In connection with its spin-off in 1997, Solutia assumed, and agreed to indemnify Pharmacia for, liabilities related to Former
Monsanto's chemical businesses. As the result of its reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, Solutia s indemnification obligations related to Former Monsanto s chemical businesses are limited to sites that Solutia has
owned or operated. In addition, in connection with its spinoff that was completed in 2002, New Monsanto assumed, and agreed to indemnify Pharmacia for, any liabilities primarily related to Former Monsanto's chemical businesses, including, but not
limited to, any such liabilities that Solutia assumed. Solutia's and New Monsanto's assumption of and agreement to indemnify Pharmacia for these liabilities apply to pending actions and any future actions related to Former Monsanto's chemical
businesses in which Pharmacia is named as a defendant, including, without limitation, actions asserting environmental claims, including alleged exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls.       Pharmacia Cash Balance Pension Plan       In 2006, several current and former employees of Pharmacia Corporation
filed a purported class action in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Illinois against the Pharmacia Cash Balance Pension Plan (the Plan), Pharmacia Corporation, Pharmacia   Upjohn Company and Pfizer Inc. Plaintiffs seek
monetary and injunctive relief on behalf of a class consisting of certain current and former participants in the Plan who accrued a benefit in the Monsanto Company Pension Plan prior to its conversion to a cash balance plan in 1997. In 2002, after
various corporate reorganizations, certain of the assets and liabilities of the Monsanto Company Pension Plan were transferred to the Plan. Plaintiffs claim that the Plan violates the age-discrimination provisions of ERISA by providing certain
credits to such participants only to age 55. This action has been consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Illinois  (Walker, et al., v. The Monsanto Company Pension Plan et al. ) with purported class actions pending
in that court that make largely similar claims against substantially similar cash balance plans sponsored by Monsanto Company and Solutia Inc., each of which was spun off by Pharmacia Corporation or a predecessor of Pharmacia Corporation. In 2008,
at the request of the parties, the court issued an order permitting the case to proceed as a class action. In June 2009, the court granted our motion for summary judgment and dismissed the claims against the Plan, Pfizer Inc. and the two Pfizer
subsidiaries. In October 2009, the plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. In July 2010, the Seventh Circuit affirmed the District Court s dismissal of the claims against the Plan, Pfizer Inc.
and the two Pfizer subsidiaries. In December 2010, the plaintiffs filed a petition for certiorari with the U.S. Supreme Court seeking reversal of the Seventh Circuit s decision.       Trade Secrets Action in California       In 2004, Ischemia Research and Education Foundation (IREF) and its chief
executive officer brought an action in California Superior Court, Santa Clara County, against a former IREF employee and Pfizer. Plaintiffs allege that defendants conspired to misappropriate certain information from IREF s allegedly proprietary
database in order to assist Pfizer in designing and executing a clinical study of a Pfizer drug. In 2008, the jury returned a verdict for compensatory damages of approximately $38.7 million. In March 2009, the court awarded prejudgment interest, but
declined to award punitive damages. In July 2009, the court granted our motion for a new trial and vacated the jury verdict.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             Trimegestone       Aventis filed a breach of contract action against Wyeth in the Commercial Court of Nanterre in
France arising out of the December 2003 termination by Wyeth of an October 2000 agreement between Wyeth and Aventis relating to the development of hormone-therapy drugs utilizing Aventis s trimegestone (TMG) progestin. Aventis alleges that
the termination was improper and seeks monetary damages. In 2009, a three-judge tribunal rendered its decision in favor of Wyeth. In May 2010, the Versailles Court of Appeals reversed the Commercial Court s decision and appointed experts
to hear evidence and make a recommendation to the Court of Appeals concerning damages. In August 2010, Wyeth filed a notice of appeal of the Court of Appeals  decision with the Supreme Court of France. Notwithstanding the appeal, the damage
proceeding by the experts appointed by the Court of Appeals is continuing.       Environmental Matters    

Remediation Matters         In 2009, we submitted to
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) a corrective measures study report with regard to Pharmacia Corporation's discontinued industrial chemical facility in North Haven, Connecticut and a revised site-wide feasibility study with regard to
Wyeth s discontinued industrial chemical facility in Bound Brook, New Jersey. In September 2010, our corrective measures study report with regard to the North Haven facility was approved by the EPA.   
  We are a party to a number of other proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA
or Superfund), and other state, local or foreign laws in which the primary relief sought is the cost of past and/or future remediation.       

MPA Matter         In 2006, the Irish Director of
Public Prosecutions (DPP) served Wyeth s subsidiary, Wyeth Medica Ireland (WMI), with criminal summonses charging it with violations of the Ireland Waste Management Act and WMI s Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control License in
connection with five shipments from WMI s Newbridge, Ireland facility of sugar waste water allegedly contaminated with medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA). In June 2010, WMI entered into a plea agreement with the DPP concerning four deviations
from waste-management requirements between September 2000 and November 2001. In October 2010, WMI agreed to pay 70,000 euros to the DPP toward the cost of the prosecution of this matter and was ordered to pay a fine of 40,000 euros. In November
2010, the DPP filed a notice of appeal seeking review of the amount of the fine. On January 31, 2011, the DPP withdrew its appeal in exchange for the payment by WMI of 150,000 euros to cover the Ireland Environmental Protection Agency s
costs to investigate this matter.       D. Government Investigations       Like other pharmaceutical companies, we are subject to extensive regulation by national, state and local government agencies in the U.S. and in the other countries in which we operate. As a result, we have
interactions with government agencies on an ongoing basis. Among the investigations by government agencies are those discussed below. It is possible that criminal charges and substantial fines and/or civil penalties could result from government
investigations, including but not limited to those discussed below.      The Company has voluntarily provided the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) with information concerning potentially improper payments made by Pfizer and by Wyeth in connection with certain sales activities outside the U.S. We are in discussions with the DOJ and SEC regarding a
resolution of these matters. In addition, certain potentially improper payments and other matters are the subject of investigations by government authorities in certain foreign countries, including a civil and criminal investigation in Germany with
respect to certain tax matters relating to a wholly owned subsidiary of Pfizer.      The DOJ is conducting civil and criminal investigations regarding
Wyeth s promotional practices with respect to Protonix and its practices relating to the pricing for Protonix for Medicaid rebate purposes. In connection with the pricing investigation, in 2009, the DOJ filed a civil complaint in intervention
in two qui tam actions that had been filed under seal in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The complaint alleges that Wyeth s practices relating to the pricing for Protonix for Medicaid rebate purposes between 2001 and
2006 violated the Federal Civil False Claims Act and federal common law. The two qui tam actions have been unsealed and the complaints include substantially similar allegations. In addition, in 2009, several states and the District of Columbia filed
a complaint under the same docket number asserting violations of various state laws based on allegations substantially similar to those set forth in the civil complaint filed by the DOJ. We are exploring with the DOJ various ways to resolve its
civil and criminal investigations relating to Protonix.      The U.S. Attorney s Office for the Western District of Oklahoma is conducting a civil and
criminal investigation with respect to Wyeth s promotional practices relating to Rapamune. In addition, in October 2010, the federal government was permitted to intervene in a qui tam action, which alleges off-label promotion of Rapamune, that
was pending in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. In December 2010, the qui tam action was transferred to the Western District of Oklahoma, where it was consolidated with the proceedings underway there.   
  We have received civil investigative demands and informal inquiries from the consumer protection divisions of several states seeking information and documents
concerning the promotion of Lyrica and Zyvox. These requests appear to relate to the same past promotional practices concerning these products that were the subject of previously reported settlements in September 2009 with the DOJ and the Medicaid
fraud control units of various states.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             E. Guarantees and Indemnifications       In the ordinary course of business and in connection with the sale of
assets and businesses, we often indemnify our counterparties against certain liabilities that may arise in connection with the transaction or related to activities prior to the transaction. These indemnifications typically pertain to environmental,
tax, employee and/or product-related matters and patent-infringement claims. If the indemnified party were to make a successful claim pursuant to the terms of the indemnification, we would be required to reimburse the loss. These indemnifications
are generally subject to threshold amounts, specified claim periods and other restrictions and limitations. Historically, we have not paid significant amounts under these provisions and, as of December 31, 2010, recorded amounts for the
estimated fair value of these indemnifications were not significant.       20. Segment, Geographic and Revenue Information    
   Business Segments       Effective with the acquisition of Wyeth,
we operate in the following two distinct commercial organizations, which constitute our two business segments:       

Biopharmaceutical  consists of the Primary Care, Specialty Care, Oncology, Established Products and Emerging Markets units and includes products that
prevent and treat cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, central nervous system disorders, arthritis and pain, infectious and respiratory diseases, urogenital conditions, cancer, eye diseases and endocrine disorders, among others.
Biopharmaceutical s segment profit includes costs related to research and development, manufacturing, and sales and marketing activities that are associated with the products in our Biopharmaceutical segment.      

Diversified  includes Animal Health products and services that prevent and treat diseases in livestock and companion animals, including vaccines,
parasiticides and anti-infectives; Consumer Healthcare products that include over-the-counter healthcare products such as pain management therapies (analgesics and heat wraps), cough/cold/allergy remedies, dietary supplements, hemorrhoidal care and
personal care items; Nutrition products that consist mainly of infant and toddler nutritional products; and Capsugel, which represents our capsule products and services business. Diversified s segment profit includes costs related to research
and development, manufacturing, and sales and marketing activities that are associated with the products in our Diversified segment.      
  Segment profit/(loss) is measured based on income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income and income attributable to noncontrolling
interests. Certain costs, such as significant impacts of purchase accounting for acquisitions, restructuring and acquisition-related costs, costs related to our cost-reduction initiatives and certain asset impairment charges are included in
 Corporate/Other  only. This methodology is utilized by management to evaluate our businesses. We regularly review our segments and the approach used by management to evaluate performance and allocate resources.   
  Each segment offers different products requiring different marketing and distribution strategies. We sell our products primarily to customers in the wholesale
sector. In 2010, sales to our three largest U.S. wholesaler customers represented approximately 14%, 10% and 9% of total revenues and, collectively, represented approximately 17% of accounts receivable as of December 31, 2010. These sales and
related accounts receivable were concentrated in the Biopharmaceutical segment. In 2009, sales to our three largest U.S. wholesaler customers represented approximately 17%, 11% and 10% of total revenues and, collectively, represented approximately
13% of accounts receivable as of December 31, 2009.      Revenues exceeded $500 million in each of 18 countries outside the U.S. in 2010, in each of 13
countries outside the U.S. in 2009 and in each of 14 countries outside the U.S. in 2008. The U.S. was the only country to contribute more than 10% of total revenues in each year.       Segment Revenues and Profit       Segment revenues and profit are as follows:   

(a)   
    Includes revenues and profit/(loss) from legacy Wyeth operations for a full year in 2010. 2009 includes revenues and profit/(loss) from legacy Wyeth operations
commencing on the Wyeth acquisition date, October 15, 2009, in accordance with Pfizer s domestic and international year-ends.      

(b)     
       Corporate/Other  includes, among other things, Pfizer CentreSource, which
includes contract manufacturing and bulk pharmaceutical chemical sales.  Corporate/Other  under  Segment profit/(loss)  also includes, among other things, interest income/(expense), corporate administration expenses, certain
performance-based and all share-based compensation expenses, significant impacts of purchase accounting for acquisitions, all acquisition-related costs, substantially all restructurings, significant asset impairments and litigation charges.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       

(  c  )   
     Segment profit/(loss)  equals  Income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income.  Certain costs are included in
 Corporate/Other  only (see note (b) above). This methodology is utilized by management to evaluate our businesses.      

(  d  )   
    In 2010,  Corporate/Other  includes: (i) significant impacts of purchase accounting for acquisitions of $8.3 billion, including intangible asset
amortization and charges related to fair value adjustments of inventory acquired as part of our acquisition of Wyeth and sold during the period; (ii) restructuring and acquisition-related costs of $4.0 billion, related to our acquisition of
Wyeth; (iii) intangible asset impairments of $2.1 billion primarily related to certain intangible assets acquired as part of our acquisition of Wyeth and to one of our products, Thelin (see  Note 3B. Other Significant Transactions and Events:
Asset Impairment Charges) ; (iv) Wyeth-related inventory write-off of $212 million (which includes a purchase accounting fair value adjustment of $104 million), primarily related to Biopharmaceutical inventory; (v) an additional $1.3
billion charge for asbestos litigation related to our wholly owned subsidiary Quigley Company, Inc.; (vi) all share-based compensation expense and (vii) net interest expense of $1.4 billion.      
  In 2009,  Corporate/Other  includes: (i) significant impacts of purchase accounting for acquisitions of $3.8 billion, including intangible
asset amortization and charges related to fair value adjustments of inventory acquired as part of our acquisition of Wyeth and sold during the period; (ii) restructuring and acquisition-related costs of $4.3 billion, primarily related to our
acquisition of Wyeth; (iii) all share-based compensation expense; (iv) a gain of $482 million related to ViiV (see  Note 3E. Other Significant Transactions and Events: Equity-Method Investments);  (v) net interest expense of $487
million; and (vi) an impairment of $298 million associated with certain materials used in our research and development activities that were no longer considered recoverable.   
  In 2008,  Corporate/Other  includes: (i) restructuring charges and implementation costs associated with our cost-reduction initiatives of
$4.2 billion; (ii) significant impacts of purchase accounting for acquisitions of $3.2 billion, including acquired in-process research and development, intangible asset amortization and other charges; (iii) charges of approximately $2.3
billion related to the resolution of certain investigations concerning Bextra and various other products, as well as certain other investigations, and charges of approximately $900 million associated with the resolution of certain litigation
involving our NSAID pain medicines; (iv) all share-based compensation expense; (v) net interest income of $772 million; (vi) asset impairment charges of $213 million; and (vii) acquisition-related costs of $49 million.
     Substantially all of the restructuring charges recorded in  Corporate/Other  in 2010, 2009 and 2008 are associated with our
Biopharmaceutical segment.       Segment Assets, Property, Plant and Equipment Additions, and Depreciation and Amortization    
  Additional details follow:       

(b)   
     Corporate/Other  includes Pfizer CentreSource, which includes contract manufacturing and bulk pharmaceutical chemical sales.      

(c)   
    Assets included within  Corporate/Other  are primarily cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, long-term investments and loans and tax assets.

(  d  )     
      Certain production facilities are shared. Property, plant and equipment, as well as
capital additions and depreciation, are allocated based on estimates of physical production.      

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             Geographic       Revenues and long-lived assets by geographic region are as follows:   

(b)   
    Developed Europe region includes the following markets: Western Europe and the Scandinavian countries.      

(  c  )   
    Developed Rest of World region includes the following markets: Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, and South Korea.      

(d)   
    Emerging Markets region includes, but is not limited to, the following markets: Asia (excluding Japan and South Korea), Latin America, Middle East, Africa,
Central and Eastern Europe, Russia and Turkey.      

(  e  )   
    Long-lived assets include identifiable intangible assets (excluding goodwill) and property, plant and equipment.      

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             Revenues by Product       Significant product revenues are as follows:   

(a)   
    Legacy Wyeth products. Legacy Wyeth operations are included for a full year in 2010. In accordance with Pfizer s domestic and international year-ends, 2009
includes approximately two-and-a-half months of Wyeth s U.S. operations and approximately one-and-a-half months of Wyeth s international operations in 2009.      

(b)   
    Outside the U.S. and Canada.      

(c)   
    Represents direct sales under license agreement with Eisai.      

(d)   
    Enbrel (in the U.S. and Canada) (  a) , Aricept, Exforge, Rebif and Spiriva.      

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             21. Subsequent Events        A. Acquisition of King Pharmaceuticals, Inc.    
  On January 31, 2011, we completed our tender offer for all of the outstanding shares of common stock of King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (King). Upon completion of
the tender offer, we accepted for purchase all of the shares validly tendered and not validly withdrawn at a purchase price of $14.25 per share, net to the seller in cash, without interest thereon and subject to any required withholding taxes. As a
result, we paid approximately $3.3 billion in cash for approximately 92.5% of the outstanding shares of King common stock. Also, in accordance with the terms of the merger agreement, individuals designated by Pfizer now constitute a majority of the
King Board of Directors. We intend to complete the acquisition of King through a merger on or about February 28, 2011, without a vote of the remaining shareholders of King. As a result of the merger, each remaining share of King common stock
will be converted into the right to receive $14.25 per share, net in cash, without interest and less any required withholding taxes.   
  King s principal businesses consist of a prescription pharmaceutical business focused on delivering new formulations of pain treatments
designed to discourage common methods of misuse and abuse; the Meridian auto-injector business for emergency drug delivery, which develops and manufactures the EpiPen   ;
and an animal health business that offers a variety of feed-additive products for a wide range of species.      The assets acquired and liabilities assumed
from King, the consideration paid to acquire King, and the results of King s operations, are not reflected in our consolidated financial statements as of and for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010. Due to the significant limitations
on access to King information prior to the completion of the tender offer and the limited time since the completion of the tender offer, the initial accounting for the business combination is incomplete at this time. As a result, we are unable to
provide the amounts to be recognized for the major classes of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including the information required for accounts receivables, pre-acquisition contingencies and goodwill. We will include this and other related
information in our first quarter 2011 Form 10-Q.       B. New Research and Development Productivity Initiative    
  On February 1, 2011, we announced that we are continuing to closely evaluate our global research and development function and will accelerate our current
strategies to improve innovation and overall productivity by prioritizing areas with the greatest scientific and commercial promise, utilizing appropriate risk/return profiles and focusing on areas with the highest potential to deliver value in the
near term and over time. In connection with these actions:       

We estimate that we will incur pre-tax employee-termination charges in the range of approximately $800 million to $1.1 billion and other pre-tax exit and
implementation charges in the range of approximately $300 million to $500 million, all of which will result in future cash expenditures. We expect most of these charges to be incurred in 2011 and the balance to be incurred in 2012.

We estimate that we will incur total pre-tax impairment and additional depreciation asset restructuring charges in the range of approximately $1.1 billion
to $1.3 billion, of which approximately $800 million to $900 million represent additional depreciation asset restructuring charges. Most of these charges will be associated with our Sandwich, U.K. facility. We expect most of these non-cash
charges to be incurred in 2011 and the balance to be incurred in 2012.      

Quarterly Consolidated Financial Data (Unaudited)       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       

(a)   
      The increase in costs and expenses in the fourth quarter of 2010, compared to the
third quarter of 2010, is due to higher  Cost of sales, Selling  ,   informational and administrative expenses,  and  Amortization of intangible assets,  partially offset by lower charges recorded in  Other
deductions net.       

(b)   
      The increase in the fourth quarter of 2010, compared to the third quarter of 2010, is
due to higher integration charges and restructuring costs primarily related to our acquisition of Wyeth.      
    Basic and diluted EPS are computed independently for each of
the periods presented. Accordingly, the sum of the quarterly EPS amounts may not agree to the total for the year.      As of January 31, 2011, there
were 232,567 holders of record of our common stock (New York Stock Exchange symbol PFE).   

Quarterly Consolidated Financial Data (Unaudited)       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       

(a)   
    In accordance with our domestic and international fiscal year-ends, approximately two-and-a-half months of Wyeth s U.S. operations and approximately
one-and-a-half months of Wyeth s international operations are included in our consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended December 31, 2009. For additional information, see  Note 2. Acquisition of Wyeth . The increase in
revenues and costs and expenses in the fourth quarter of 2009 primarily reflects the results of Wyeth s operations, as well as higher purchase accounting charges resulting from the Wyeth acquisition.      

(b)   
    Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs includes restructuring charges recorded in the fourth quarter of 2009 related to our acquisition of
Wyeth.      

(c)   
    Earnings per share in fourth-quarter 2009 was impacted by the increased number of shares outstanding in comparison with prior 2009 quarters, resulting primarily
from shares issued to partially fund the Wyeth acquisition.         Basic and diluted EPS are computed independently for each of the periods
presented. Accordingly, the sum of the quarterly EPS amounts may not agree to the total for the year.   

Financial Summary       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       

(a)    
    Legacy Wyeth operations are included for a full year in 2010. In accordance with Pfizer s domestic and international year-ends, includes approximately
two-and-a-half months of Wyeth s U.S. operations and approximately one-and-a-half months of Wyeth s international operations in 2009.      

(  d  )    
     Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs  primarily includes the following:      

2010 Restructuring charges of $2.2 billion related to our acquisition of Wyeth and other cost-reduction initiatives.     

2009 Restructuring charges of $3.0 billion related to our acquisition of Wyeth and other cost-reduction initiatives.     

2008 Restructuring charges of $2.6 billion related to our cost-reduction initiatives.     

2007 Restructuring charges of $2.5 billion related to our cost-reduction initiatives.     

2006 Restructuring charges of $1.3 billion related to our cost-reduction initiatives.     

(  e  )   
    Includes discontinued operations.      

(  f  )   
    Defined as long-term debt, deferred taxes and total shareholders  equity. In 2009, increase reflects the long-term debt and deferred tax liabilities
associated with the acquisition of Wyeth.      

(  g  )   
    Represents total Pfizer Inc. shareholders  equity divided by the actual number of common shares outstanding (which excludes treasury shares and those held
by our employee benefit trusts). The increase in 2009 was due to the issuance of equity to partially finance the Wyeth acquisition.      

Financial Summary       Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies       
             Peer Group Performance Graph    

Five Year Performance        

Notes:  
  Pfizer s pharmaceutical peer group consists of the following companies: Abbott Laboratories, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Eli Lilly and Company,
GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson   Johnson and Merck and Co.     

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 4
 dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY

Subsidiaries of the Company 

Exhibit 21        SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY       The following is a list of subsidiaries of the Company as of
December 31, 2010, omitting some subsidiaries which, considered in the aggregate, would not constitute a significant subsidiary.       

NAME    
      
     WHERE INCORPORATED     
 
    337609 B.C. Ltd.   
      
  Canada   
 
    685 TA LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    A S Ruffel (Mozambique) Limitada   
      
  Mozambique   
 
    A. H. Robins (Philippines) Company, Inc.   
      
  Philippines   
 
    A. H. Robins International Company   
      
  Nevada   
 
    A.S. Ruffel (Private) Limited   
      
  Zimbabwe   
 
    AC Acquisition Holding Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Agouron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    AHP Finance Ireland Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    AHP FSC (Barbados) Ltd.   
      
  Barbados   
 
    AHP Holdings B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    AHP Holdings Pty. Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    AHP Manufacturing B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    AHP Services Japan Co., Ltd.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Alginate Industries (Ireland) Ltd.   
      
  Ireland   
 
    American Food Industries, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    American Home Products Holdings (U.K.) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Andean Services S.A.   
      
  Colombia   
 
    Argatroban Royalty Sub LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Arthur Webster (New Zealand) Pty. Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Arthur Webster Pty. Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Ayerst-Wyeth Pharmaceuticals LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Berdan Insurance Company   
      
  Vermont   
 
    BINESA 2002, S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Biocor Animal Health Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Bioren, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BioRexis Pharmaceutical Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Blue Whale Re Ltd.   
      
  Vermont   
 
    C.E. Commercial Holdings C.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    C.E. Commercial Investments C.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    C.P. Pharma Gy gyszerkereskedelmi Korl tolt Felel ss g  T rsas g   
      
  Hungary   
 
    C.P. Pharmaceuticals International C.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Capsugel (Thailand) Co. Ltd.   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Capsugel Belgium BVBA   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Capsugel de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Capsugel France   
      
  France   
 
    Capsugel Healthcare Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Capsugel Japan Inc. (KK)   
      
  Japan   
 
    Capsugel Ploermel   
      
  France   
 
    Carlerba Produtos Qu micos e Farmac uticos, Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Catapult Genetics (Australia) Pty Ltd   
      
  Australia    

NAME    
      
     WHERE INCORPORATED     

Catapult Genetics Pty Ltd   
      
  Australia   
 
    Catapult Systems Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Charlie Papa Operations, LLC   
      
  New Jersey   
 
    CICL Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    COC I Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Coley Pharmaceutical GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Coley Pharmaceutical Group, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Compania Farmaceutica Upjohn, S.A.   
      
  Guatemala   
 
    Consumer Health Products (Minority Interests) Company   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Continental Farmaceutica, S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Continental Pharma, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    CovX Research LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Covx Technologies Ireland Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cyanamid Agriculture Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Cyanamid de Argentina S.A.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cyanamid de Colombia, S.A.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cyanamid de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Cyanamid Inter-American Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cyanamid International Sales Corporation   
      
  Virgin Islands   
 
    Cyanamid of Great Britain Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Davis Medica, Sociedad Limitada, Sociedad Unipersonal   
      
  Spain   
 
    Dimminaco AG   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Distribuidora Mercantil Centro Americana, S.A   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Embrex Bio-Tech Trade (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.   
      
  People s Republic of China   
 
    Embrex De Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Embrex Europe Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Embrex Poultry Health, LLC   
      
  North Carolina   
 
    Embrex, Inc.   
      
  North Carolina   
 
    Encysive (UK) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Encysive Canada Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Encysive Pharmaceuticals Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Encysive, L.P.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    EP-ET, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Esperion LUV Development, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Farminova Produtos Farmaceuticos de Inovacao, Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Farmitalia Carlo Erba Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Farmogene Productos Farmaceuticos Lda   
      
  Portugal   
 
    FoldRx Pharmaceuticals Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    FoldRx Pharmaceuticals, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Fort Dodge (Hong Kong) Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Fort Dodge (Solv) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Fort Dodge Animal Health (Pty) Ltd.   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Fort Dodge Animal Health Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Fort Dodge Animal Health Philippines, Inc.   
      
  Philippines   
 
    Fort Dodge Animal Health, S. DE R.L. DE C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Fort Dodge Asia Exports, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Fort Dodge Australia Pty. Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Fort Dodge de Venezuela, C.A.   
      
  Venezuela   
 
    Fort Dodge Dominicana, S.A.   
      
  Dominican Republic    

NAME    
      
     WHERE INCORPORATED     

Fort Dodge Laboratories Inc.   
      
  Iowa   
 
    Fort Dodge Laboratories Ireland Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Fort Dodge Manufatura Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Fort Dodge Saude Animal Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Fort Dodge U.K. Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Fort Dodge Veterinaria, S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    G. D. Searle   Co. Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    G. D. Searle International Capital LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    G. D. Searle LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    G. D. Searle South Africa (Pty) Ltd.   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Genetics Institute of Europe B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Genetics Institute, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    GI Europe, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    GI Japan, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    G decke GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Greenstone LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Haptogen Limited   
      
  Scotland   
 
    ImmunoPharmaceutics, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Industrial Santa Agape, S.A.   
      
  Guatemala   
 
    Instituto Pasteur de Lisboa Virginio Leitao Vieira dos Santos   Filhos S.A.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    International Affiliated Corporation LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Invicta Farma, S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    John Wyeth   Brother Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Jouveinal Holland B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Kenfarma, S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Kiinteist  oy Espoon Pellavaniementie 14   
      
  Finland   
 
    Kommanditbolaget Hus Gron   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Korea Pharma Holding Company Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Laboratoires Pfizer SA   
      
  Morocco   
 
    Laboratorios Ayerst-Hormona S.A.   
      
  Colombia   
 
    Laboratorios Parke Davis, S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Laboratorios Pfizer Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Laborat rios Pfizer, Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Laboratorios Wyeth Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Laboratorios Wyeth S.A.   
      
  Peru   
 
    Laboratorios Wyeth S.A.   
      
  Venezuela   
 
    Lederle S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Lothian Developments V SPRL   
      
  Belgium   
 
    LW Investments Limited   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    MDP Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MED Urological, Inc.   
      
  Minnesota   
 
    Meridica Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MPP Trustee Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MTG Divestitures LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Nefox Farma, S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Neusentis Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Nostrum Farma, S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    O.C.T. (Thailand) Ltd.   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Orfi-Farma S.L.   
      
  Spain    

NAME    
      
     WHERE INCORPORATED     

Paris Montrouge II (Nederland) B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Parke Davis   Co. Limited   
      
  Isle of Jersey   
 
    Parke Davis International Limited   
      
  Bahamas   
 
    Parke Davis Productos Farmaceuticos Lda   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Parke Davis Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Parke, Davis   Company LLC   
      
  Michigan   
 
    Parke-Davis Manufacturing Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Parke-Davis, Inc.   
      
  Philippines   
 
    P-D Co., Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Peak Enterprises LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PF Asia Manufacturing Co peratief U.A.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    PF Prism US LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer (China) Research and Development Co. Ltd.   
      
  People s Republic of China   
 
    Pfizer (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Pfizer (Perth) Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Pfizer (S.A.S.)   
      
  France   
 
    Pfizer (Thailand) Limited   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Pfizer (Wuhan) Research and Development Co. Ltd.   
      
  People s Republic of China   
 
    Pfizer AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Pfizer Africa   Middle East for Pharmaceuticals, Animal Health   Chemicals S.A.E.   
      
  Egypt   
 
    Pfizer Afrique de L Ouest   
      
  Senegal   
 
    Pfizer AG   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Pfizer Animal Health B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pfizer Animal Health India Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Pfizer Animal Health Korea Ltd.   
      
  Korea   
 
    Pfizer Animal Health MA EEIG   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pfizer Animal Health SA   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Pfizer ApS   
      
  Denmark   
 
    Pfizer AS   
      
  Norway   
 
    Pfizer Asia Contract Operations Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Pfizer Asia Holdings B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pfizer Asia Manufacturing Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Pfizer Asia Pacific Pte Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Pfizer Atlantic Holdings S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pfizer Australia Holdings Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Pfizer Australia Investments B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pfizer Australia Investments Pty. Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Pfizer Australia Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Pfizer B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pfizer BH D.o.o.   
      
  Bosnia and Herzegovina   
 
    Pfizer Biologics Ireland Holdings Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Biotech Corporation   
      
  Taiwan   
 
    Pfizer Biotechnology Ireland   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Bolivia S.A.   
      
  Bolivia   
 
    Pfizer Canada Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Pfizer Caribe Limited   
      
  Guernsey   
 
    Pfizer CentreSource Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Pfizer CH B.V.   
      
  Netherlands    

NAME    
      
     WHERE INCORPORATED     

Pfizer Chile S.A.   
      
  Chile   
 
    Pfizer Cia. Ltda.   
      
  Ecuador   
 
    Pfizer Commercial Holdings Co peratief U.A.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pfizer Consumer Healthcare GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Pfizer Consumer Healthcare Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pfizer Continental Holdings SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pfizer Continental Services LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer Convention III LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer Convention IV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer Co-Promotions Limited   
      
  Isle of Jersey   
 
    Pfizer Cork Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Corporation   
      
  Panama   
 
    Pfizer Corporation Austria Gesellschaft m.b.H.   
      
  Austria   
 
    Pfizer Corporation Hong Kong Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Pfizer Croatia d.o.o.   
      
  Croatia   
 
    Pfizer Deutschland GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Pfizer Distribution Company   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Domestic Ventures Limited   
      
  Isle of Jersey   
 
    Pfizer Dominicana, S.A.   
      
  Dominican Republic   
 
    Pfizer Eastern Investments B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pfizer Egypt S.A.E.   
      
  Egypt   
 
    Pfizer Enterprises Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer Enterprises SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pfizer ESP Pty Ltd   
      
  Australia   
 
    Pfizer Europe Holdings SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pfizer Europe MA EEIG   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pfizer Europe Services LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer European Service Center BVBA   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Pfizer Export AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Pfizer Export Company   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Finance GmbH   Co. KG   
      
  Germany   
 
    Pfizer Finance Holding S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Pfizer Finance Italy S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Pfizer Finance Share Service (Dalian) Co., Ltd.   
      
  People s Republic of China   
 
    Pfizer Finance Verwaltungs GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Pfizer Financial Services N.V./S.A.   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Pfizer France Investment Holdings   
      
  France   
 
    Pfizer Free Zone Panama, S.A.   
      
  Panama   
 
    Pfizer Global Holdings B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pfizer Global Investments SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pfizer Global Supply   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Global Trading   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Pfizer Group Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pfizer Gulf FZ-LLC   
      
  United Arab Emirates   
 
    Pfizer H.C.P. Corporation   
      
  New York   
 
    Pfizer Health AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Pfizer Health Solutions Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer Healthcare Consultant (Shanghai) Co., Ltd   
      
  People s Republic of China    

NAME    
      
     WHERE INCORPORATED     

Pfizer Healthcare Ireland   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Hellas, A.E.   
      
  Greece   
 
    Pfizer HK Service Company Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Pfizer Holding France (S.C.A.)   
      
  France   
 
    Pfizer Holding Italy S.p.A.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Pfizer Holding Ventures   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Holdings Bermuda Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Pfizer Holdings Europe   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Holdings International Luxembourg (PHIL) Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pfizer Holdings K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Pfizer Holdings Luxembourg SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pfizer Holdings Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Pfizer Holdings Netherlands B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pfizer Holdings Turkey Limited   
      
  Isle of Jersey   
 
    Pfizer Hungary Asset Management LLC   
      
  Hungary   
 
    Pfizer Ilaclari Limited Sirketi   
      
  Turkey   
 
    Pfizer International Bank Europe   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer International Corporation   
      
  Panama   
 
    Pfizer International Holdings   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer International Investments Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Pfizer International LLC   
      
  New York   
 
    Pfizer International Luxembourg SA   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pfizer International Operations (S. A. S.)   
      
  France   
 
    Pfizer International Sweden   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Pfizer International Trading (Shanghai) Limited   
      
  People s Republic of China   
 
    Pfizer Investment Capital   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Investment Co. Ltd.   
      
  People s Republic of China   
 
    Pfizer Investment Holdings S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pfizer Investments Netherlands B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pfizer Ireland Investments Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Ireland Pharmaceuticals   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Ireland Pharmaceuticals   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Ireland Ventures   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Italia S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Pfizer Japan Inc.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Pfizer Jersey Capital Limited   
      
  Isle of Jersey   
 
    Pfizer Jersey Company Limited   
      
  Isle of Jersey   
 
    Pfizer Jersey Finance Limited   
      
  Isle of Jersey   
 
    Pfizer Laboratories (Pty) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Pfizer Laboratories Limited   
      
  Kenya   
 
    Pfizer Limitada   
      
  Angola   
 
    Pfizer Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Pfizer Limited   
      
  Taiwan   
 
    Pfizer Limited   
      
  Tanzania   
 
    Pfizer Limited   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Pfizer Limited   
      
  Uganda   
 
    Pfizer Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pfizer LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer LLC   
      
  Russia    

NAME    
      
     WHERE INCORPORATED     

Pfizer Luxco Holdings Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pfizer Luxembourg SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pfizer Manufacturing Belgium N.V.   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Pfizer Manufacturing Deutschland GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Pfizer Manufacturing Holdings Co peratief U.A.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pfizer Manufacturing Holdings LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer Manufacturing Ireland   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Manufacturing LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer Manufacturing Services   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Medical Technology Group (Belgium) N.V.   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Pfizer Mexico, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Pfizer Middle East for Pharmaceuticals, Animal Health and Chemicals S.A.E.   
      
  Egypt   
 
    Pfizer Namibia (Proprietary) Limited   
      
  Namibia   
 
    Pfizer Netherlands B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pfizer New Zealand Limited   
      
  New Zealand   
 
    Pfizer OTC B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pfizer Overseas LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer Oy   
      
  Finland   
 
    Pfizer Pacific Co peratief U.A.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pfizer Pakistan Limited   
      
  Pakistan   
 
    Pfizer Parke Davis (Thailand) Ltd.   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Pfizer Pension Trustees (Ireland) Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer PGM (S.A.S.)   
      
  France   
 
    Pfizer PGRD (S.A.S.)   
      
  France   
 
    Pfizer Pharm Algerie   
      
  Algeria   
 
    Pfizer Pharma GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Pfizer Pharma Holdings Cooperatief U.A.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pfizer Pharma Trade LLC   
      
  Egypt   
 
    Pfizer Pharmaceutical (Wuxi) Co., Ltd.   
      
  People s Republic of China   
 
    Pfizer Pharmaceutical India Pvt. Ltd.   
      
  India   
 
    Pfizer Pharmaceutical Trading Limited Liability Company (a/k/a Pfizer Kft. or Pfizer LLC)   
      
  Hungary   
 
    Pfizer Pharmaceuticals B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Global Co peratief U.A.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Israel Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Korea Limited   
      
  Korea   
 
    Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Pfizer Pharmaceuticals LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Ltd.   
      
  People s Republic of China   
 
    Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Tunisie Sarl   
      
  Tunisia   
 
    Pfizer PHF   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Pigments Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer Polska Sp. z.o.o.   
      
  Poland   
 
    Pfizer Precision Holdings SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pfizer Prev Sociedade de Previdencia Privada   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Pfizer Private Limited   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Pfizer Private Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Pfizer Production LLC   
      
  Delaware    

NAME    
      
     WHERE INCORPORATED     

Pfizer Products Inc.   
      
  Connecticut   
 
    Pfizer Products India Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Pfizer Romania SRL   
      
  Romania   
 
    Pfizer S.A.   
      
  Colombia   
 
    Pfizer S.A.   
      
  Peru   
 
    Pfizer S.G.P.S. Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Pfizer S.R.L.   
      
  Argentina   
 
    Pfizer SA (Belgium)   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Pfizer Saidal Manufacturing   
      
  Algeria   
 
    Pfizer Sant  Familiale SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Pfizer Science and Technology Ireland Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Searle Investment Limited   
      
  Isle of Jersey   
 
    Pfizer Service Company BVBA   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Pfizer Service Company Ireland   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Services 1 (S.N.C.)   
      
  France   
 
    Pfizer Services 3 (SNC)   
      
  France   
 
    Pfizer Services 4 (SNC)   
      
  France   
 
    Pfizer Services LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer Shared Services   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Shareholdings Intermediate SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pfizer Singapore Trading Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Pfizer Spain Holdings Co peratief U.A.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pfizer Specialities Ghana   
      
  Ghana   
 
    Pfizer Specialties Limited   
      
  Nigeria   
 
    Pfizer Sterling Investments Limited   
      
  Isle of Jersey   
 
    Pfizer Strategic Investment Company Limited   
      
  Isle of Jersey   
 
    Pfizer Suzhou Animal Health Products Co., Ltd.   
      
  People s Republic of China   
 
    Pfizer Suzhou Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.   
      
  People s Republic of China   
 
    Pfizer Trading Polska sp.z.o.o.   
      
  Poland   
 
    Pfizer Transactions Ireland   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pfizer Transactions LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer Transactions Luxembourg SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pfizer Tunisie SA   
      
  Tunisia   
 
    Pfizer UK Group Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pfizer Vaccines LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pfizer Venezuela, S.A.   
      
  Venezuela   
 
    Pfizer Warner Lambert Luxembourg SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pfizer Zona Franca, S.A.   
      
  Costa Rica   
 
    Pfizer, Inc.   
      
  Philippines   
 
    Pfizer, S.A.   
      
  Costa Rica   
 
    Pfizer, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Pfizer, S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Pfizer, spol. s r.o.   
      
  Czech Republic   
 
    Pharmacia   Upjohn Cambridge Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pharmacia   Upjohn Company LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pharmacia   Upjohn Company, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pharmacia   Upjohn LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pharmacia   Upjohn Trading Corporation   
      
  Michigan   
 
    Pharmacia   Upjohn, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico    

NAME    
      
     WHERE INCORPORATED     

Pharmacia (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Pharmacia Africa Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pharmacia Animal Health Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pharmacia Asia Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Pharmacia B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pharmacia Brasil Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Pharmacia Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pharmacia de Centroamerica S.A.   
      
  Panama   
 
    Pharmacia GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Pharmacia Grupo Pfizer, S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Pharmacia Hepar Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pharmacia Holding AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Pharmacia Inter-American LLC   
      
  Michigan   
 
    Pharmacia International B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pharmacia International Inc.   
      
  South Dakota   
 
    Pharmacia Ireland   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pharmacia Korea Ltd.   
      
  Korea   
 
    Pharmacia Laboratories Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pharmacia Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pharmacia Limited Company   
      
  Michigan   
 
    Pharmacia Little Island Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Pharmacia Malaysia Sdn Bhd   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Pharmacia Searle Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pharmacia UK Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    PHIVCO Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PHIVCO Jersey (Holdco) Limited   
      
  Isle of Jersey   
 
    PHIVCO Luxembourg SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    PowderJect Research Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    PowderJect Vaccines, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PowderMed Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    PowderMed, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Preve Oy   
      
  Finland   
 
    ProRe SA   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Prosec (Ireland) Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Prosec Forsakrings AB (Prosec Insurance Co. Ltd.)   
      
  Sweden   
 
    PT. Capsugel Indonesia   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    PT. Fort Dodge Indonesia   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    PT. Pfizer Indonesia   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    PT. Wyeth Indonesia   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    PZR Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    PZR Property Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Quigley Company, Inc.   
      
  New York   
 
    Renrall LLC   
      
  Wyoming   
 
    Rinat Neuroscience Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Rivepar   
      
  France   
 
    RMV Produtos Veterinarios Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Roerig Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Roerig S.A.   
      
  Chile   
 
    Roerig, S.A.   
      
  Venezuela    

NAME    
      
     WHERE INCORPORATED     

Route 24 Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Salsbury Chemicals Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Sao Cristovao Participacoes Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Searle   Co.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Searle Laboratorios, Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Searle LLC   
      
  Nevada   
 
    Searle Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Serenex, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Servicios Corporativos FDAH, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Shanghai Wyeth Nutritional Company Limited   
      
  People s Republic of China   
 
    Shiley International   
      
  California   
 
    Shiley LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Sinergis Farma-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Site Realty, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Solinor LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Sugen, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Suzhou Capsugel Ltd.   
      
  People s Republic of China   
 
    Synbiotics Corporation   
      
  California   
 
    Synbiotics Europe S.A.S.   
      
  France   
 
    Tabor Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    The Pfizer Incubator LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    The Upjohn Holding Company M LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    The Upjohn Manufacturing Company LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Thiakis Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Thorney Company   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Trans-Europe Assurance Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Trans-Europe Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Upjohn International Holding Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Upjohn Laboratorios Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Upjohn Pharmaceuticals Limited   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Vermont Whey Company   
      
  Vermont   
 
    Viagra Ltd   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Vicuron Holdings LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Vicuron Pharmaceuticals Italy S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Vinci Farma, S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Warner Lambert (UK) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Warner Lambert Company (M) Sdn Bhd   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Warner Lambert del Uruguay S.A.   
      
  Uruguay   
 
    Warner Lambert Ilac Sanayi ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi   
      
  Turkey   
 
    Warner Lambert Poland Sp.z.o.o.   
      
  Poland   
 
    Warner Lambert Zimbabwe (Private) Limited   
      
  Zimbabwe   
 
    Warner-Lambert (East Africa) Limited   
      
  Kenya   
 
    Warner-Lambert (Nigeria) Limited   
      
  Nigeria   
 
    Warner-Lambert (Tanzania), Limited   
      
  Tanzania   
 
    Warner-Lambert (Thailand) Limited   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Warner-Lambert Company AG   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Warner-Lambert Company LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warner-Lambert de El Salvador, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  El Salvador   
 
    Warner-Lambert de Honduras, Sociedad Anonima   
      
  Honduras    

NAME    
      
     WHERE INCORPORATED     

Warner-Lambert de Puerto Rico, Inc.   
      
  Puerto Rico   
 
    Warner-Lambert Guatemala, Sociedad Anonima   
      
  Guatemala   
 
    Warner-Lambert Ireland   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Warner-Lambert Kenya Limited   
      
  Kenya   
 
    Warner-Lambert Pottery Road Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Warner-Lambert SA (Pty) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Warner-Lambert, S.A.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    WCH Netherlands East LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    WCH Netherlands West LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Webster Animal Health (UK) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Whitehall International Inc.   
      
  New York   
 
    Whitehall Laboratories Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Whitehall Laboratorios S.A.   
      
  Uruguay   
 
    Whitehall-Robins AG   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    W-L (Europe)   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    W-L (Portugal)   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    W-L (Spain)   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    WL de Guatemala, Sociedad Anonima   
      
  Guatemala   
 
    W-L LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wyeth (Asia) Limited   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wyeth (Far East) Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Wyeth (H.K.) Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Wyeth (Hong Kong) Holding Company Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Wyeth (Malaysia) SDN. BHD.   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Wyeth (Shanghai) Trading Company Limited   
      
  People s Republic of China   
 
    Wyeth (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Wyeth (Thailand) Ltd.   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Wyeth AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Wyeth Advertising Inc.   
      
  New York   
 
    Wyeth Australia Pty. Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Wyeth Ayerst Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wyeth Ayerst SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Wyeth Consumer Healthcare B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Wyeth Consumer Healthcare Ltd.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wyeth Consumer Healthcare Pty. Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Wyeth Egypt Ltd.   
      
  Egypt   
 
    Wyeth Egypt Trading Ltd.   
      
  Egypt   
 
    Wyeth Europa Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Wyeth Farma, S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Wyeth Holdings Corporation   
      
  Maine   
 
    Wyeth Ilaclari A.S.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wyeth Industria Farmaceutica Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Wyeth KFT.   
      
  Hungary   
 
    Wyeth Korea, Inc.   
      
  Korea   
 
    Wyeth Lederle S.p.A.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Wyeth Lederle Vaccines S.A.   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Wyeth Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Wyeth LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wyeth Medica Ireland Limited   
      
  Ireland    

NAME    
      
     WHERE INCORPORATED     

Wyeth Nigeria Limited   
      
  Nigeria   
 
    Wyeth Nutritional (China) Co., Ltd.   
      
  People s Republic of China   
 
    Wyeth Nutritionals (Singapore) PTE. LTD.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Wyeth Nutritionals Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wyeth OOO   
      
  Russia   
 
    Wyeth Pakistan Limited   
      
  Pakistan   
 
    Wyeth Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.   
      
  People s Republic of China   
 
    Wyeth Pharmaceuticals (Singapore) PTE. LTD.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Wyeth Pharmaceuticals Central America Services, S.A.   
      
  Panama   
 
    Wyeth Pharmaceuticals Company   
      
  Puerto Rico   
 
    Wyeth Pharmaceuticals FZ-LLC   
      
  United Arab Emirates   
 
    Wyeth Pharmaceuticals Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wyeth Pharmaceuticals India Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Wyeth Pharmaceuticals Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Wyeth Pharmaceuticals S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Wyeth Philippines, Inc.   
      
  Philippines   
 
    Wyeth Puerto Rico, Inc.   
      
  Puerto Rico   
 
    Wyeth Regional Manufacturing (Singapore) PTE. LTD.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Wyeth Research (U.K.) Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Wyeth Research Ireland Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Wyeth S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Wyeth South Africa (Proprietary) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Wyeth Subsidiary Illinois Corporation   
      
  Illinois   
 
    Wyeth Whitehall Export GmbH   
      
  Austria   
 
    Wyeth Whitehall SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Wyeth-Ayerst (Asia) Limited   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wyeth-Ayerst (China) Limited   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wyeth-Ayerst International Inc.   
      
  New York   
 
    Wyeth-Ayerst Lederle LLC   
      
  Puerto Rico   
 
    Wyeth-Ayerst Promotions Limited   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wyeth-Whitehall Pharmaceuticals LLC   
      
  Puerto Rico   
 
    Yusafarm D.O.O.   
      
  Serbia and Montenegro    

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF KPMG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of KPMG LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

Exhibit 23         Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm        To the Shareholders and
the Board of Directors of Pfizer Inc:      We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Form 10-K of Pfizer Inc. of our reports dated
February 28, 2011, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders  equity and cash flows for each of the
years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010, and all related financial statement schedules, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, which reports appear in the December 31, 2010 annual
report on Form 10-K of Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies.      Our report refers to Pfizer Inc. s adoption of Financial Accounting
Standards Board Statement No.141R,  Business Combinations  (included in FASB ASC Topic 805,  Business Combinations ), as of January 1, 2009.      We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our reports in the following Registration Statements:      -Form S-8 dated October 27, 1983 (File No. 2-87473),      -Form S-8 dated March 22, 1990 (File No.
33-34139),      -Form S-8 dated January 24, 1991 (File No. 33-38708),      -Form S-8 dated November 18, 1991 (File No. 33-44053),      -Form S-8 dated May 27, 1993 (File No.
33-49631),      -Form S-8 dated May 19, 1994 (File No. 33-53713),      -Form S-8 dated October 5, 1994 (File No. 33-55771),      -Form S-8 dated December 20, 1994 (File No.
33-56979),      -Form S-8 dated March 29, 1996 (File No.33-02061),      -Form S-8 dated September 25, 1997 (File No. 333-36371),      -Form S-8 dated April 24, 1998 (File No.
333-50899),      -Form S-8 dated April 22, 1999 (File No. 333-76839),      -Form S-8 dated April 27, 2001 (File No. 333-59660),      -Form S-8 dated April 27, 2001 (File No.
333-59654),      -Form S-8 dated April 16, 2003 (File No. 333-104581),      -Form S-8 dated April 16, 2003 (File No. 333-104582),      -Form S-8 dated November 18, 2003 (File No.
333-110571),      -Form S-8 dated December 18, 2003 (File No. 333-111333),      -Form S-8 dated April 26, 2004 (File No. 333-114852),      -Form S-8 dated March 1, 2007 (File No.
333-140987),      -Form S-3 dated March 1, 2007 (File No. 333-140989),      -Form S-3 dated March 30, 2007 (File No. 333-141729),      -Form S-4 dated March 27, 2009 (File No.
333-158237),      -Form S-8 dated October 16, 2009 (File No. 333-162519),      -Form S-8 dated October 16, 2009 (File No. 333-162520),      -Form S-8 dated October 16, 2009 (File
No. 333-162521) and      -Form S-8 dated March 1, 2010 (File No. 333-165121).      /s/ KPMG LLP      New York, New York      February 28, 2011   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 dex311.htm
 CERTIFICATION BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

Certification by the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 

Exhibit 31.1        Certification by the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to    
   Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002       I, Ian C. Read, certify that:      1. I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of
Pfizer Inc.;      2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state
a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   
  3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all
material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant,
including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;   
  b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
     c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in
this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   
  d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred
during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting;   
  5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over
financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   
  a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.   
  Date: February 28, 2011       

/ S /    I AN  C. R EAD    
 
     Ian C. Read   
   President and Chief Executive Officer      

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 dex312.htm
 CERTIFICATION BY THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

Certification by the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 

Exhibit 31.2        Certification by the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to    
   Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002       I, Frank A. D Amelio, certify that:      1. I have reviewed this report on Form
10-K of Pfizer Inc.;      2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit
to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   
  3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all
material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant,
including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;   
  b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
     c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in
this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   
  d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred
during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting;   
  5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over
financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   
  a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.   
  Date: February 28, 2011       

/ S /    F RANK  A. D A MELIO    
 
     Frank A. D Amelio   
   Executive Vice President,       Business
Operations and       Chief Financial Officer      

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 dex321.htm
 CERTIFICATION BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

Certification by the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 906 

Exhibit 32.1        Certification by the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U. S. C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to        Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002       Pursuant to 18 U. S.
C. Section 1350, I, Ian C. Read, hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Pfizer Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2010 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of
Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and that the information contained in that Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Pfizer Inc.

/ S /    I AN  C. R EAD     
 
     Ian C. Read   
   President and Chief Executive Officer         February 28, 2011      This certification accompanies this Report on Form 10-K
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not, except to the extent required by such Act, be deemed filed by the Company for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
 Exchange Act ). Such certification will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except to the extent that the Company specifically incorporates it by
reference.   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 9
 dex322.htm
 CERTIFICATION BY THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

Certification by the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 906 

Exhibit 32.2        Certification by the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U. S. C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to        Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002       Pursuant to 18 U. S.
C. Section 1350, I, Frank A. D Amelio, hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Pfizer Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2010 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements
of Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and that the information contained in that Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Pfizer Inc.

/ S /    F RANK  A. D A MELIO     
 
     Frank A. D Amelio   
   Executive Vice President, Business Operations and       Chief Financial Officer         February 28, 2011   
  This certification accompanies this Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not,
except to the extent required by such Act, be deemed filed by the Company for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ). Such certification will not be deemed to be incorporated by
reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except to the extent that the Company specifically incorporates it by reference.   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 10
 pfe-20101231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 11
 pfe-20101231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 12
 pfe-20101231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 13
 pfe-20101231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 14
 pfe-20101231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 15
 pfe-20101231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

