<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080403_10-K_edgar_data_354950_0001047469-08-004077_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1138828</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>256308</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>43253</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>672298</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>45</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>12</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-08-004077.hdr.sgml : 20080403
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080403163642
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-08-004077
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		16
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20080203
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080403
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080403

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			HOME DEPOT INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000354950
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS [5211]
		IRS NUMBER:				953261426
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0128

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08207
		FILM NUMBER:		08737927

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2455 PACES FERRY ROAD
		CITY:			ATLANTA
		STATE:			GA
		ZIP:			30339-4024
		BUSINESS PHONE:		770-433-82

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2455 PACES FERRY ROAD
		CITY:			ATLANTA
		STATE:			GA
		ZIP:			30339-4024

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 F6TszgK7ZGD4zq6gJF+XLWKr7CVs1BJmI8Q894F5IxAlMqmNN3zRDLrjb/j3Tk7J
 QUpedXyiR2o8mU18NlWasQ==

 0001047469-08-004077.txt : 20080403

10-K
 1
 a2183971z10-k.htm
 FORM 10-K

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549     

FORM 10-K     

Commission File Number 1-8207     

   THE HOME DEPOT, INC.      (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)   

   DELAWARE      (State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization)   

   95-3261426      (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)   

   2455 PACES FERRY ROAD, N.W., ATLANTA, GEORGIA 30339      (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)   

  Registrant's
Telephone Number, Including Area Code:    (770) 433-8211     

  SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:   

TITLE OF EACH CLASS    
     
   NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE 
ON WHICH REGISTERED    

Common Stock, $0.05 Par Value Per Share  
     
  New York Stock Exchange  

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:    None     

  Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act. Yes        No       

  Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act. Yes        No       

  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. Yes        No       

  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.       

  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See
definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer      
     
  Accelerated filer      
     
  Non-accelerated filer        (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  
     
  Smaller Reporting Company      

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act). Yes        No       

  The aggregate market value of the common stock of the Registrant held by non-affiliates of the Registrant on July 29, 2007 was $70.7 billion.   

  The
number of shares outstanding of the Registrant's common stock as of March 24, 2008 was 1,690,034,627 shares.   

   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE     

  Portions of the Registrant's proxy statement for the 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K to
the extent described herein.   

THE HOME DEPOT, INC. 
FISCAL YEAR 2007 FORM 10-K     

TABLE OF CONTENTS            

PART I  

Item 1.  

Business  

1  

Item 1A.  

Risk Factors  

6  

Item 1B.  

Unresolved Staff Comments  

9  

Item 2.  

Properties  

10  

Item 3.  

Legal Proceedings  

12  

Item 4.  

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

14  

Item 4A.  

Executive Officers of the Company  

14  

PART II  

Item 5.  

Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and 
    Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

16  

Item 6.  

Selected Financial Data  

18  

Item 7.  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of 
    Operations  

19  

Item 7A.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

30  

Item 8.  

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  

31  

Item 9.  

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial 
    Disclosure  

60  

Item 9A.  

Controls and Procedures  

60  

Item 9B.  

Other Information  

60  

PART III  

Item 10.  

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  

61  

Item 11.  

Executive Compensation  

61  

Item 12.  

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related 
    Stockholder Matters  

61  

Item 13.  

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  

61  

Item 14.  

Principal Accounting Fees and Services  

61  

PART IV  

Item 15.  

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  

62  

Signatures  

67  

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO THE   PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995            

  Certain statements regarding our future performance made in this report are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may relate to such matters as net sales
growth, comparable store sales, impact of cannibalization, state of the residential construction and housing markets, state of the home improvement market, commodity price inflation and deflation,
implementation of store initiatives, continuation of reinvestment plans, protection of intellectual property rights, net earnings performance, earnings per share, stock-based compensation expense,
store openings and closures, capital allocation and expenditures, liquidity, the effect of adopting certain accounting standards, return on invested capital, management of our purchasing or customer
credit policies, the planned recapitalization of the Company, timing of the completion of such recapitalization, the ability to issue debt securities on terms and at rates acceptable to us and the
demand for our products and services.   

  Forward-looking
statements are based on currently available information and our current assumptions, expectations and projections about future events. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on
our forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties   many of which are beyond our control or are currently unknown to
us   as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions, that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. Some of the material risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections are described in Item 1A, "Risk Factors." You should read such information in
conjunction with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 and our Financial Statements and related notes in Item 8. We note such
information for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. There also may be other factors that we cannot anticipate or that are not described in this report,
generally because we do not perceive them to be material. Such factors could cause results to differ materially from our expectations.   

  Forward-looking
statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update such statements. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related
subjects in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").   

PART I            

Item 1.    Business.            

    Introduction      

  The Home Depot, Inc. is the world's largest home improvement retailer and the second largest retailer in the United States ("U.S."), based on Net Sales for the fiscal
year ended February 3, 2008 ("fiscal 2007"). As of the end of fiscal 2007, we were operating 2,234 stores, most of which are The Home Depot stores.   

The
Home Depot stores sell a wide assortment of building materials, home improvement and lawn and garden products and provide a number of services. The Home Depot stores average approximately 105,000
square feet of enclosed space, with approximately 23,000 additional square feet of outside garden area. As of the end of fiscal 2007, we had 2,193 The Home Depot stores located throughout the U.S.
(including the territories of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands and Guam), Canada, China and Mexico. In addition, at the end of fiscal 2007, the Company operated 34 EXPO Design Center stores, two THD
Design Center stores and five Yardbirds stores.   

  On
August 30, 2007, we closed the sale of HD Supply. We received net proceeds of $8.3 billion and recognized a loss of $4 million, net of tax, for the sale of the business. In
connection with the sale, we purchased a 12.5% equity interest in the newly formed HD Supply for $325 million and guaranteed a $1.0 billion senior secured loan of HD Supply.   

  1  

The
Home Depot, Inc. is a Delaware corporation that was incorporated in 1978. Our Store Support Center (corporate office) is located at 2455 Paces Ferry Road, N.W., Atlanta, Georgia 30339. Our
telephone number is (770) 433-8211.   

  We
maintain an Internet website at www.homedepot.com. We make available on our website, free of charge, our Annual Reports to shareholders, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5 as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such documents
with, or furnishing such documents to, the SEC.   

  We
include our website addresses throughout this filing only as textual references. The information contained on our websites is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.   

    Our Business      

    Operating Strategy.        In fiscal 2007, following changes in senior Company management and in the face of rapid
deterioration in the housing, residential construction and home improvement markets, we adopted and implemented strategic objectives of focusing on our retail business, investing in our associates and
stores, improving customer service and returning capital to shareholders. We completed the sale of HD Supply; we completed approximately one-half of our $22.5 billion
recapitalization plan by acquiring approximately 15% of our outstanding shares; and we invested over $2 billion in five key operating priorities: associate engagement, product excitement,
product availability, shopping environment and own the pro. Further information about our efforts on each of these key priorities may be found in Part II, Item 7.   

Customers.        The Home Depot stores serve three primary customer groups:   

Do-It-Yourself ("D-I-Y")
Customers:     These customers are typically home owners who purchase products and complete their own projects and installations. To complement the expertise of our
associates, The Home Depot stores offer "how-to" clinics taught by associates and merchandise vendors.
            Do-It-For-Me ("D-I-F-M")
Customers:     These customers are typically
home owners who purchase materials themselves and hire third parties to complete the project and/or installation. We arrange for the installation of a variety of The Home Depot products through
qualified independent contractors.
            Professional Customers:     These customers are professional remodelers, general
contractors, repairmen, small business owners and tradesmen. In many stores, we offer a variety of programs to these customers, including additional delivery and will-call services,
dedicated staff, extensive merchandise selections and expanded credit programs, all of which we believe increase sales to these customers.    
 
  2  

Products.        A typical Home Depot store stocks 35,000 to 45,000 products during the year, including both national
brand name and proprietary items. The following table shows the percentage of Net Sales of each major product group (and related services) for each of the last three fiscal years:   

In
fiscal 2007, we focused on driving merchandising fundamentals and continuing to deliver innovative and distinctive products. Key areas of success included:   

Introducing
new technology in great products like Behr paint with nano-guard which eliminates the need for priming in exterior painting and Shark Bite pipe
fittings which takes welding out of the pipe connection process in plumbing;
           Launching
environmentally friendly Eco Options SM  products across many categories, including compact fluorescent bulbs, cleaning products and natural live
goods; and
           Remaining
focused on affordable luxury by introducing new products in Hampton Bay Patio, Charmglow grills, GE CleanSteel  appliances, LG Kitchen Series,
TrafficMaster Allure resilient flooring and Shaw Highstakes carpet.    

To
complement and enhance our product selection, we have formed strategic alliances and exclusive relationships with selected suppliers to market products under a variety of
well-recognized brand names. During fiscal 2007, we offered a number of proprietary and exclusive brands across a wide range of departments including, but not limited to, Behr Premium
Plus  paint, Charmglow  gas grills, Hampton Bay  lighting, Vigoro  lawn care products, Husky  hand tools, RIDGID  and
Ryobi  power tools, Pegasus  faucets, Traffic Master  carpet, Glacier Bay  bath fixtures and Veranda  decking products. We may consider
additional strategic alliances and relationships with other suppliers and will continue to
assess opportunities to expand the range of products available under brand names that are exclusive to The Home Depot.   

  From
our Store Support Center we maintain a global sourcing merchandise program to source high-quality products directly from manufacturers around the world. Our Product Development
Merchants travel internationally in order to identify and purchase market leading innovative products directly for our stores. Additionally, we have four sourcing offices located in the Chinese cities
of Shanghai, Shenzhen, Dalian and Chengdu, and offices in Gurgaon, India; Milan, Italy; Monterrey, Mexico and Toronto, Canada. In addition to our global sourcing teams, we also have quality assurance
and engineer teams who ensure that the products we source (globally or domestic) comply with federal, state and local standards.   

    Services.        Our stores offer a variety of installation services. These services target
D-I-F-M customers who select and purchase products and installation of those products from us. These installation programs include products such as carpeting,
flooring, cabinets, countertops and water heaters. In addition, we provide professional installation of a number of products sold through our in-home sales programs, such as generators and
furnace and central air systems.   

  3  

Store Growth      

United States .    At the end of fiscal 2007, we were operating 1,950 The Home Depot stores in the U.S., including
the territories of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands and Guam. During fiscal 2007, we opened 87 new The Home Depot stores, including nine relocations, in the U.S.   

   Canada .    At the end of fiscal 2007, we were operating 165 The Home Depot stores in ten Canadian
provinces. Of these stores, ten were opened during fiscal 2007.   

   Mexico .    At the end of fiscal 2007, we were operating 66 The Home Depot stores in Mexico. Of these
stores, six were opened during fiscal 2007, including one relocation.   

   China .    At the end of fiscal 2007, we were operating 12 The Home Depot stores in six Chinese cities.   

   Other .    In fiscal 2007, we opened five Yardbirds stores in California and a THD Design Center in California and
North Carolina. At the end of fiscal 2007, we were operating 34 EXPO Design Center stores in 13 states. Also in fiscal 2007, we closed our 11 The Home Depot Landscape Supply
stores and our two The Home Depot Floor stores.   

  Financial
information about our operations outside of the U.S. is reported in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

    Store Support Services      

    Information Technologies.        During fiscal 2007, we continued to make information technology investments to better
support our customers and provide an improved overall shopping environment and experience.   

  With
our focus on the stores, we provided technology improvements designed to help store associates perform their jobs and improve customer service. Over 650 stores received new computers, registers
and printers, while over 1,100 stores received a refresh of their self-checkout equipment. All stores received a design system upgrade and new equipment to allow sales to be processed in
the specialty departments and over 100 stores received new paint dispensers. A satellite-based network was deployed to all stores in order to increase network resiliency and connectivity to our data
centers. Along with the improvements to the stores, we installed new hardware in approximately 18 logistics facilities.   

  The
installation of a new Radio Call Box system, designed to help customers obtain in-aisle assistance, was completed in every store across the U.S. and Canada. The deployment of
self-checkout registers to all our stores was completed, and new coupon handling automation was implemented. We equipped managers, designers and expediters with BlackBerry/cell phone
devices and e-mail accounts enabling them to more easily communicate with customers and store support centers.   

  In
addition to significant investments in store technology, new warehouse and transportation management technology was implemented in support of our supply chain. A new Customer Care technology was
implemented in the store support center and each store to assist with recording and
resolving customer disputes. Considerable progress was made in the development of an ERP system (Core Retail) that will first be deployed in Canada in 2008.   

Credit Services.        We offer six credit programs through third-party credit providers to professional,
D-I-Y and D-I-F-M customers. In fiscal 2007, approximately 4.3 million new The Home Depot credit accounts were opened, and the total
number of The Home Depot active account holders was approximately 13 million. Proprietary credit card sales accounted for approximately 29% of store sales in fiscal 2007.   

    Logistics.        Our logistics programs are designed to ensure product availability for customers, effective use of our
investment in inventory and low total supply chain costs. At the end of fiscal 2007, we   

  4  

operated
30 lumber distribution centers in the U.S., Canada and Mexico, and 39 conventional distribution centers located in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. At the end of fiscal 2007, we also operated
eight transit facilities in the U.S. and Mexico to receive and consolidate store merchandise orders from suppliers for delivery to our stores.   

  In
fiscal 2007, approximately 20% of the merchandise shipped to our U.S. stores flowed through the distribution centers, and about 20% through the transit facilities. The remaining merchandise was
shipped directly from suppliers to our stores.   

  During
fiscal 2007, we introduced improved flow-through distribution processes in an existing U.S. transit facility by converting it to a Rapid Deployment Center ("RDC"). RDCs allow
for aggregation of store product needs to a single purchase order, and then rapid allocation and deployment of inventory to individual stores upon arrival at the center. This process allows improved
transportation, simplified order processing at suppliers, and reduced lead time from store product need determination to replenishment. We opened a second RDC facility in January 2008. We plan to open
several more RDCs in the U.S. over the next few years to increase our central distribution capabilities and product flow-through.   

  In
addition to replenishing merchandise at our stores, we also provide delivery of in-stock and special order product directly to our customers.   

    Associates.        At the end of fiscal 2007, we employed approximately 331,000 associates, of whom approximately 26,000
were salaried, with the remainder compensated on an hourly or temporary basis. Approximately 67% of our associates are employed on a full-time basis. We believe that our employee relations
are very good. To attract and retain qualified personnel, we seek to maintain competitive salary and wage levels in each market we serve.   

Intellectual Property.        Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Homer TLC, Inc., we have registered or applied
for registration, in a number of countries, for a variety of internet domain names, service marks and trademarks for use in our businesses, including The Home Depot  Hampton
Bay  fans, lighting and accessories; Glacier Bay  toilets, sinks and faucets; Pegasus  faucets and bath accessories; Commercial Electric  lighting
fixtures; Workforce  tools, tool boxes and shelving; and www.doitherself.com. We have also obtained and now maintain patent portfolios relating to certain products and services provided by
The Home Depot, and continually seek to patent or otherwise protect selected innovations we incorporate into our products and business operations. We regard our intellectual property as having
significant value to our business and as being an important factor in the marketing of our brand, e-commerce, stores and new areas of our business. We are not aware of any facts that could
be expected to have a material adverse effect on our intellectual property.   

    Quality Assurance Program.        We have both quality assurance and engineering resources who oversee the quality of our
directly imported globally-sourced and proprietary products. Through these programs, we have established criteria for supplier and product performance that are designed to ensure our products comply
with federal, state and local quality/performance standards. These programs also allow us to measure and track timeliness of shipments. These performance records are made available to the factories to
allow them to strive for improvement. The program addresses quality assurance at the factory, product and packaging levels.   

    Environmental, Health   Safety ("EH S").        We are committed to maintaining a safe environment for our
customers and associates and protecting the environment of the communities in which we do business. Our EH S function in the field is directed by trained associates focused primarily on execution of
the EH S programs. Additionally, we have an Atlanta-based team of dedicated EH S professionals who evaluate, develop, implement and enforce policies, processes and programs on a
Company-wide basis.   

  5  

Environmental.        The Home Depot is committed to conducting business in an environmentally responsible manner and this
commitment impacts all areas of our business, including store construction and maintenance, energy usage, product selection and customer education. In fiscal 2007, we budgeted approximately
$50 million for energy efficiency related projects. By replacing HVAC units in approximately 200 existing stores and switching to the use of T-5 lighting in approximately
600 existing stores, we estimate savings to be approximately $20 million since fiscal 2006. In addition, we have implemented strict operational standards that establish energy efficient
practices in all of our facilities. These include HVAC unit temperature regulation and adherence to strict lighting schedules, which are the largest sources of energy consumption in our stores, as
well as implementation of the Novar Energy Management and Alarm System in each store to monitor energy efficiency. We estimate that by implementing these energy saving programs we have avoided
907 million pounds of greenhouse gas emissions. We believe this is equivalent to removing approximately 75,000 cars from the highway.   

We
have also taken additional measures to further our sustainability efforts. We partnered with the U.S. Green Building Council and have built five LEED green certified stores. We offset the carbon
emissions created by our facilities and a portion of those emissions created by business related travel through an agreement with The Conservation Fund that resulted in the planting of thousands of
trees that will help reduce the heat-island effect in urban areas, reduce erosion and help clean the air. Through our Eco Options SM  Program, we have created product
categories that allow consumers to easily identify environmentally preferred product selections in our stores. We implemented a Supplier Social and Environmental Responsibility Program to ensure that
our suppliers adhere to the highest standards of social and environmental responsibility.   

    Seasonality.        Our business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, our highest volume of sales occurs in our
second fiscal quarter and the lowest volume occurs during our fourth fiscal quarter.   

    Competition.        Our business is highly competitive, based in part on price, store location, customer service and
assortment of merchandise. In each of the markets we serve, there are a number of other home improvement stores, electrical, plumbing and building materials supply houses and lumber yards. With
respect to some products, we also compete with discount stores, local, regional and national hardware stores, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, independent building supply stores and, to a lesser
extent, other retailers. In addition to these entities, our EXPO Design Center stores compete with specialty design stores or showrooms, some of which are only open to interior design professionals.
Due to the variety of competition we face, we are unable to precisely measure the impact on our sales by our competitors.   

Item 1A.    Risk Factors.            

  The risks and uncertainties described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause actual results to
differ materially from our expectations and projections. While we believe that our assumptions, expectations and projections are reasonable in view of currently available information, you are
cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. They are subject to future events, risks and
uncertainties   many of which are beyond our control or are unknown to us   as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions that could cause actual results to
differ materially from our expectations and projections. You should read these Risk Factors in conjunction with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"
in Item 7 and our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in Item 8. There also may be other factors that we cannot anticipate or that are not described in this report,
generally because we do not perceive them to be material. Such factors could cause results to differ materially from our expectations.   

  6  

The state of the housing, construction and home improvement markets, rising costs, a reduction in the availability of financing, weather and other
conditions in North America could adversely affect our costs of doing business, demand for our products and services and our financial performance.      

  In recent months, the housing, residential construction and home improvement markets have deteriorated dramatically. We expect the deterioration to continue through 2008, and
our fiscal 2008 Net Sales and Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations to decline. Other factors   including interest rate fluctuations, fuel and other energy costs,
labor and healthcare costs, the availability of financing, the state of the credit markets, including mortgages, home equity loans and consumer credit, consumer confidence, weather, natural disasters
and other factors beyond our control   could adversely affect demand for our products and services and our financial performance. These and other similar factors could:   

increase
our costs,
           cause
our customers to delay undertaking or determine not to undertake new home improvement projects,
           cause
our customers to delay purchasing or determine not to purchase home improvement products and services, and
           lead
to a decline in customer transactions and our financial performance.    

We rely on third party suppliers, and if we fail to identify and develop relationships with a sufficient number of qualified suppliers, our ability to
timely and efficiently access products that meet our high standards for quality could be adversely affected.      

  We buy our products from suppliers located throughout the world. Our ability to continue to identify and develop relationships with qualified suppliers who can satisfy our high
standards for quality and our need to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge. Our ability to access products also can be adversely affected by political
instability, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' noncompliance with applicable laws, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and cost and other factors
beyond our control.   

    If we are unable to effectively manage and expand our alliances and relationships with selected suppliers of brand name products, we may be unable to
effectively execute our strategy to differentiate ourselves from our competitors.      

  As part of our strategy of product differentiation, we have formed strategic alliances and exclusive relationships with selected suppliers to market products under a variety of
well-recognized brand names. If we are unable to manage and expand these alliances and relationships or identify alternative sources for comparable products, we may not be able to
effectively execute our strategy of differentiation.   

    Any inability to open new stores on schedule will delay the contribution of these new stores to our financial performance.      

  We expect to increase our presence in certain existing markets and enter new markets. Our ability to open new stores will depend primarily on our ability to:   

identify
attractive locations,
           negotiate
leases or real estate purchase agreements on acceptable terms,
           attract
and train qualified employees, and
           manage
pre-opening expenses, including construction costs.    
 
  7  

Environmental
regulations, local zoning issues and other laws related to land use affect our ability to open new stores. Failure to effectively manage these and other similar factors will affect our
ability to open stores on schedule, which will delay the impact of these new stores on our financial performance.   

    The implementation of our supply chain and technology initiatives could disrupt our operations in the near term, and these initiatives might not provide
the anticipated benefits or might fail.      

  We have made, and we plan to continue to make, significant investments in our supply chain and technology. These initiatives are designed to streamline our operations to allow
our associates to continue to provide high quality service to our customers and to provide our customers with a better experience. The cost and potential problems and interruptions associated with the
implementation of these initiatives could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations in the near term. In addition, our improved supply chain and new or upgraded technology might not provide
the anticipated benefits, it might take longer than expected to realize the anticipated benefits, or the initiatives might fail altogether.   

    We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends, which could adversely affect our relationship with customers, the demand for our
products and services and our market share.      

  It is difficult to successfully predict the products and services our customers will demand. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to identify and respond
to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences. Failure to design attractive stores and to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences, spending
patterns and home improvement needs could adversely affect our relationship with customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share.   

    The inflation or deflation of commodity prices could affect our prices, demand for our products, sales and profit margins.      

  Prices of certain commodity products, including lumber and other raw materials, are historically volatile and are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in domestic and
international supply and demand, labor costs, competition, market speculation, government regulations and periodic delays in delivery. Rapid and significant changes in commodity prices may affect our
sales and profit margins.   

    If we cannot successfully manage the unique challenges presented by international markets, we may not be successful in expanding our international
operations.      

  Our strategy includes expansion of our operations in international markets by selective acquisitions, strategic alliances and the opening of new stores. Our ability to
successfully execute our strategy in international markets is affected by many of the same operational risks we face in expanding our U.S. operations. In addition, international expansion may
be adversely affected by our inability to identify and gain access to local suppliers as well as by local laws and customs, legal and regulatory constraints, political and economic conditions and
currency regulations of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. Risks inherent in international operations also include, among others, the costs and
difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. Additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and
fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our international operations.   

Our success depends upon our ability to attract, train and retain highly qualified associates.      

  To be successful, we must attract, train and retain a large number of highly qualified associates while controlling labor costs. Our ability to control labor costs is subject
to numerous external factors,   

  8  

including
prevailing wage rates and health and other insurance costs. In addition, many of our associates are in hourly positions with historically high turnover rates. We compete with other retail
businesses for these associates and invest significant resources in training and motivating them. We also depend on our executives and other key associates for our success. There is no assurance that
we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified associates in the future.   

    Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could
significantly affect our financial results or financial condition.      

  Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are
relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, asset impairment, inventories, self-insurance, tax matters and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective
assumptions, estimates and judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected
financial performance or financial condition.   

    Increased competition could adversely affect prices and demand for our products and services and could decrease our market share.      

  We operate in markets that are highly competitive. We compete principally based on price, store location, customer service and assortment of merchandise. In each market we
serve, there are a number of other home improvement stores, electrical, plumbing and building materials supply houses and lumber yards. With respect to some products, we also compete with discount
stores, local, regional and national hardware stores, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, independent building supply stores and other retailers. In addition, we compete with specialty design stores or
showrooms, some of which are only open to interior design professionals, local and regional distributors, and wholesalers and manufacturers that sell products directly to their customer bases. Intense
competitive pressures from one or more of our competitors could affect prices or demand for our products and services. If we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to these competitive
pressures, our financial performance and our market share could be adversely affected.   

We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, and while we cannot predict the outcomes of such proceedings and other contingencies with certainty,
some of these outcomes may adversely affect our operations or increase our costs.      

  We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, including government inquiries and investigations, and consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. We cannot predict the
outcomes of these proceedings and other contingencies, including environmental remediation and other proceedings commenced by government authorities, with certainty. The outcome of some of these
proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take or refrain from taking actions which could adversely affect our operations or could require us to pay substantial amounts of money.
Additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources from other matters.   

    Our costs of doing business could increase as a result of changes in federal, state or local regulations.      

  Changes in the federal, state or local minimum wage or living wage requirements or changes in other wage or workplace regulations could increase our costs of doing business. In
addition, changes in federal, state or local regulations governing the sale of some of our products or tax regulations could increase our costs of doing business.   

Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments.            

  Not applicable.   

  9  

Item 2.    Properties.            

  The following tables show locations of the 1,950 The Home Depot stores located in the U.S. and its territories and the 243 The Home Depot stores outside of the U.S. at
the end of fiscal 2007:   

10  

International Locations    
     
   Number of Stores    

Canada:   

Alberta  
     
   23   

British Columbia  
     
   22   

Manitoba  
     
   6   

New Brunswick  
     
   3   

Newfoundland  
     
   1   

Nova Scotia  
     
   3   

Ontario  
     
   81   

Prince Edward Island  
     
   1   

Quebec  
     
   21   

Saskatchewan  
     
   4   

Total Canada  
     
   165   

China:   

Beijing  
     
   2   

Henan  
     
   1   

Liaoning  
     
   1   

Shaanxi  
     
   2   

Shandong  
     
   1   

Tianjin  
     
   5   

Total China  
     
   12   

Mexico:   

Aguascalientes  
     
   1   

Baja California  
     
   3   

Baja California Sur  
     
   1   

Chiapas  
     
   1   

Chihuahua  
     
   5   

Coahuila  
     
   2   

Distrito Federal  
     
   7   

Durango  
     
   1   

Guanajuato  
     
   4   

Guerrero  
     
   1   

Hidalgo  
     
   1   

Jalisco  
     
   4   

Michoac n  
     
   1   

Morelos  
     
   1   

Nuevo Le n  
     
   7   

Puebla  
     
   2   

Queretaro  
     
   1   

Quintana Roo  
     
   1   

San Luis Potosi  
     
   1   

Sinaloa  
     
   3   

Sonora  
     
   2   

State of Mexico  
     
   8   

Tabasco  
     
   1   

Tamaulipas  
     
   3   

Veracruz  
     
   3   

Yucatan  
     
   1   

Total Mexico  
     
   66   

Additionally,
at the end of fiscal 2007, we had 41 other retail store locations, which included 34 EXPO Design Center stores located in Arizona, California, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Maryland,
Massachusetts, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia, five Yardbirds stores located in California and two THD Design Center stores located in California and North Carolina. We
also operated nine Home Decorators Collection locations in California, Illinois, Kansas, Missouri, North Carolina and Oklahoma.   

  Of
our 2,234 stores at the end of fiscal 2007, approximately 87% were owned (including those owned subject to a ground lease) consisting of approximately 205.5 million square feet, and
approximately 13% of such stores were leased consisting of approximately 29.1 million square feet. In recent years, we have increased the relative percentage of new stores that are owned.   

  At
the end of fiscal 2007, we utilized 206 warehouses and distribution centers located in 46 states, consisting of approximately 30.1 million square feet, of which approximately
0.5 million is owned and approximately 29.6 million is leased.   

  Our
executive, corporate staff, divisional staff and financial offices occupy approximately 2.0 million square feet of leased and owned space in Atlanta, Georgia. At the end of fiscal 2007, we
occupied an aggregate of approximately 3.7 million square feet, of which approximately 2.3 million square feet is owned and approximately 1.4 million square feet is leased, for
store support centers and customer support centers.   

  11  

Item 3.    Legal Proceedings.            

  In August 2005, the Company received an informal request from the staff of the SEC for information related to the Company's return-to-vendor policies
and procedures. Subsequent to August 2005, the SEC staff requested additional information related to such policies and procedures. The SEC staff last contacted the Company regarding this matter in
January 2007. The Company responded to this request and will continue to fully cooperate with the SEC staff. The SEC has informed the Company that the informal inquiry is not an indication that any
violations of law have occurred. Although the Company cannot predict the outcome of this matter, it does not expect that this informal inquiry will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated
financial condition or results of operations.   

  In
June 2006, the SEC commenced an informal inquiry into the Company's stock option granting practices, and the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York also requested
information on this subject. The SEC staff last contacted the Company regarding this matter in January 2007. The Company responded to each request and will continue to fully cooperate with the SEC and
the Office of the U.S. Attorney. In addition, a subcommittee of the Audit Committee reviewed the Company's historical stock option practices and engaged independent outside counsel to assist in this
matter. On December 6, 2006, the Company announced the results of this investigation. The Company determined that the unrecorded expense from 1981 through the present is approximately
$227 million in the aggregate, including related tax items. In accordance with the provisions of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108, "Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements
when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements," the Company corrected these errors by decreasing beginning Retained Earnings for fiscal 2006 by $227 million, with
offsetting entries to Paid-In Capital, Other Accrued Expenses and Deferred Income Taxes, within its Consolidated Financial Statements. Although the Company cannot predict the outcome of
these matters, it does not believe they will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial condition or results of operations.   

The
following actions have been filed against the Company and, in some cases, against certain of its current and former officers and directors as described below. Although the Company cannot predict
their outcome, it does not expect these actions, individually or together, will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial condition or results of operations.   

  In
the second quarter of fiscal 2006, six purported, but as yet uncertified, class actions were filed against the Company and certain of its current and former officers and directors in the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Georgia in Atlanta, alleging certain misrepresentations in violation of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
Rule 10b-5 thereunder in connection with the Company's return-to-vendor practices. These actions were filed by certain current and former shareholders of the
Company. In the third quarter of fiscal 2006, one of the shareholders dismissed his complaint. The Court preliminarily appointed a lead plaintiff, and the lead plaintiff filed an amended complaint in
each of the remaining five actions. Relief sought in the amended complaint includes unspecified damages and costs and attorney's fees. On July 18, 2007, the Court granted the defendants'
motions to dismiss without leave to amend and entered a judgment in favor of the defendants. The plaintiffs' appeal from the dismissal is pending in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit.   

  In
the second and third quarters of fiscal 2006, three purported, but uncertified, class actions were filed against the Company, The Home Depot FutureBuilder Administrative Committee and certain of
the Company's current and former directors and employees in federal court in Brooklyn, New York alleging breach of fiduciary duty in violation of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 in
connection with the Company's return-to-vendor and stock option practices. These actions were transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia
in Atlanta. In the first quarter of fiscal 2007, the plaintiffs joined together in one case and voluntarily dismissed the other two cases. In March 2007, the three original plaintiffs and two
additional former employees filed a joint   

  12  

amended
complaint seeking certification as a class action, unspecified damages, costs, attorneys' fees and equitable and injunctive relief. On September 10, 2007, the Court granted the
defendants' motion to dismiss and entered judgment for the defendants. The plaintiffs' appeal from the dismissal is pending in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit.   

  In
the second and third quarters of fiscal 2006, six shareholder derivative actions were filed nominally on behalf of the Company against certain current and former officers and directors in the
Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia, alleging breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate assets, and unjust enrichment in connection with the Company's
return-to-vendor, stock option, and compensation practices. Relief sought in each action includes unspecified damages, injunctive relief, disgorgement of profits, benefits and
compensation obtained by the defendants, costs, and attorney's fees. Subsequently, one joint amended complaint was filed on behalf of all plaintiffs encompassing all the various claims and seeking the
same relief. The defendants have moved to dismiss or alternatively stay the litigation.   

  In
the first quarter of fiscal 2007, three additional shareholder derivative actions were filed nominally on behalf of the Company against certain of the Company's current directors and its former
chief executive officer in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia in Atlanta. The three actions have been consolidated, and plaintiffs have filed a consolidated amended
complaint, alleging breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate assets and unjust enrichment in connection with the Company's stock option and compensation
practices. Relief sought
in the action includes unspecified damages, injunctive relief, punitive damages, and costs and attorneys' fees. The defendants have moved to dismiss the complaint.   

  In
the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, a purported shareholder of the Company filed a securities lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia against the Company and certain
of its current and former directors, alleging that the defendants violated Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 14a-9 thereunder in connection with
the issuance of the Company's 2005 Proxy Statement. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the 2005 Proxy was materially misleading because it did not disclose in connection with seeking shareholder
approval of a new stock incentive plan that the Company had granted backdated stock options under the old plan. The complaint seeks to void the vote in favor of the new plan, cancel the new plan, and
cancel or void any stock options or other awards made or issued under the new plan. The defendants have moved to dismiss the complaint.   

  The
parties to the derivative and Section 14(a) actions described above have entered into a Stipulation of Settlement dated March 28, 2008. Pursuant to the stipulation, the Company will
maintain or adopt certain corporate governance practices. The Company has also agreed to pay plaintiff's counsel an award of attorneys fees and reimbursement of expenses in the amount of
$14.5 million. The settlement, including the award to plaintiff's counsel, is subject to the approval of the Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia, among other conditions.   

From
the second quarter of 2001 through the third quarter of 2007, current and former hourly associates have filed eight current lawsuits in multiple jurisdictions, containing multiple class-action
allegations that the Company forced them to work "off the clock" or failed to provide work breaks, or otherwise that they were not paid for work performed. The complaints generally seek unspecified
monetary damages, injunctive relief or both. Class or collective-action certification has yet to be addressed in most of these cases. The Company cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range
of loss which may arise from these lawsuits. These matters, if decided adversely to or settled by the Company, individually or in the aggregate, may have a material adverse effect on its consolidated
financial condition or results of operations. The Company is vigorously defending itself against these actions.   

In
compliance with SEC disclosure requirements, the environmental proceeding set forth below involves potential monetary sanctions of $100,000 or more. Although the Company cannot predict the outcome   

  13  

of
this proceeding, it does not expect any such outcome to have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial condition or results of operations.   

  In
July 2005, the Company received a grand jury subpoena from the United States Attorney's Office in Los Angeles, California, seeking documents and information relating to the Company's handling,
storage and disposal of hazardous waste. The Company is cooperating fully with the United States Attorney's Office.   

Item 4.    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.            

  Not applicable.   

Item 4A.    Executive Officers of the Company.            

  Executive officers of the Company are appointed by, and serve at the pleasure of, the Board of Directors. The current executive officers of the Company are as follows:   

  FRANCIS
S. BLAKE, age 58, has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since January 2007. From March 2002 through January 2007, he served as the Company's Executive Vice
President   Business Development and Corporate Operations. He was formerly the Deputy Secretary of Energy from June 2001 until March 2002. From August 2000 until May 2001, he was a
Senior Vice President at General Electric Company, a diversified technology, media and financial services company, and was Vice President of Business Development at GE Power Systems from March 1996
until July 2000. Mr. Blake serves as a director of The Southern Company.   

  TIMOTHY
M. CROW, age 52, has been Executive Vice President   Human Resources since February 2007. From March 2005 through February 2007, he served as Senior Vice President,
Organization, Talent and Performance Systems and he served as Vice President, Performance Systems from May 2002 through March 2005. Mr. Crow previously served as Senior Vice
President   Human Resources of K-Mart Corporation, a mass merchandising company, from January 2001 through May 2002.   

ROBERT
P. DeRODES, age 57, has been Executive Vice President   Chief Information Officer since February 2002. He previously served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Delta
Technology, Inc. and Chief Information Officer for Delta Air Lines, Inc., an international airline company, from September 1999 until February 2002. From February 1995 to September 1999,
he served as Senior Technology Officer at Citibank, a global financial services company. From February 1993 to February 1995, he was President of Sabre Development Services for the Sabre Group
Holdings, Inc., a
subsidiary of American Airlines, Inc. On April 3, 2008, the Company announced that Mr. DeRodes has decided to leave the Company at the end of the year.   

  MARVIN
R. ELLISON, age 43, has been President   Northern Division since January 2006. From August 2005 through January 2006, he served as Senior Vice President  
Logistics and from October 2004 through August 2005 he served as Vice President   Logistics. From June 2002 through October 2004, he served as Vice President  
Loss Prevention. From 1987 until June 2002, Mr. Ellison held various management and executive level positions with Target Corporation, a general merchandise retailer. His final position with
Target was Director, Assets Protection.   

  JOSEPH
IZGANICS, age 46, has been President   Southern Division since April 2007. From February 2005 through April 2007, he served as Senior Vice President   Pro
and Tool Rental, and from December 2002 through January 2005 he served as Senior Vice President   Services. From 1994 through December 2002, Mr. Izganics held various
management and executive level positions with the Company.   

  14  

JOSEPH
MCFARLAND, III, age 38, has been President   Western Division since September 2007. From March 2003 through September 2007, he served as a Regional Vice President, and from
October 1999 through March 2003 he served as a District Manager.   

  CRAIG
A. MENEAR, age 50, has been Executive Vice President   Merchandising since April 2007. From October 2006 through April 2007, he served as Senior Vice
President   Merchandising and he served as Senior Vice President   Merchandising, Hardlines from August 2003 through October 2006. From 1997 through August 2003,
Mr. Menear served in various management and vice president level positions in the Company's Merchandising department, including Merchandising Vice President of Hardware, Merchandising Vice
President of the Southwest Division, and Divisional Merchandise Manager of the Southwest Division.   

  PAUL
RAINES, age 43, has been Executive Vice President   Stores since April 2007. From December 2004 through April 2007, he served as President   Southern
Division, and he served as Regional Vice President   Florida from April 2003 through November 2004. From January 2002 through April 2003, Mr. Raines served as Vice
President   Store Operations, and from April 2000 through January 2002, Mr. Raines served as Director of Labor Management.   

JOHN
ROSS, age 45, has served as Interim Chief Marketing Officer since October 2007. From February 2001 through October 2007, he served as Vice President   Advertising and from July
1997 through February 2001 he served as Director   Advertising.   

  RICARDO
SALDIVAR, age 55, has been President   Mexico since March 2006. From August 2001 through March 2006, he served as Region President   Mexico. From 1985 to
August 2001, Mr. Saldivar held various management and executive level positions with Grupo Alfa, a Mexican conglomerate. His final position with Grupo Alfa was President and Chief Executive
Officer of Total Home.   

  CAROL
B. TOM , age 51, has been Chief Financial Officer since May 2001 and Executive Vice President   Corporate Services since January 2007. Prior thereto,
Ms. Tom  served as Senior Vice President   Finance and Accounting/Treasurer from February 2000 through May 2001 and as Vice President and Treasurer from 1995
through February 2000. From 1992 until 1995, when she joined the Company, Ms. Tom  was Vice President and Treasurer of Riverwood International Corporation, a provider of
paperboard packaging. Ms. Tom  serves as a director of United Parcel Service, Inc. and the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta.   

  JACK
A. VANWOERKOM, age 54, has been Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since June 2007. Prior thereto, Mr. VanWoerkom served as Executive Vice President, General
Counsel and Secretary of Staples, Inc., an office products company, from March 2003 through May 2007 and as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Staples, Inc. from
March 1999 until March 2003. Mr. VanWoerkom serves as a director of Wright Express Corporation.   

  ANNETTE
M. VERSCHUREN, age 51, has been President, The Home Depot Canada since March 1996 and President, The Home Depot Asia since September 2006. From April 2003 through October 2005, she also served
as President, EXPO Design Center. Ms. Verschuren serves as a director of Liberty Mutual Holding Company, Inc.   

  15  

PART II            

Item 5.    Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.            

  Since April 19, 1984, our common stock has been listed on the New York Stock Exchange, trading under the symbol "HD." The Company paid its first cash dividend on
June 22, 1987, and has paid cash dividends during each subsequent quarter. Future dividend payments will depend on the Company's earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other
factors considered relevant by the Board of Directors.   

  The
table below sets forth the high and low sales prices of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange and the quarterly cash dividends declared per share of common stock during the periods
indicated.   

As
of March 24, 2008, there were approximately 160,000 shareholders of record and approximately 1,400,000 additional shareholders holding stock under nominee security position listings.   

  16  

Stock Performance Graph     

  This graph depicts the Company's cumulative total shareholder returns relative to the performance of the Standard   Poor's 500 Composite Stock Index and the
Standard   Poor's Retail Composite Index for the five-year period commencing February 3, 2003, the first trading day of fiscal 2003, and ending February 1, 2008, the
last trading day of fiscal 2007. The graph assumes $100 invested at the closing price of the Company's common stock on the New York Stock Exchange and each index on January 31, 2003 and assumes
that all dividends were reinvested on the date paid. The points on the graph represent fiscal year-end amounts based on the last trading day in each fiscal year.   

17  

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities     

  Since fiscal 2002, the Company has repurchased shares of its common stock having a value of approximately $27.2 billion pursuant to its share repurchase program. The
number and average price of shares purchased in each fiscal month of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 are set forth in the table below:   

(1)       These amounts are repurchases pursuant to the Company's 1997 and 2005 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plans (the "Plans"). Under the Plans, participants may exercise stock options by
surrendering shares of common stock that the participants already own as payment of the exercise price. Participants in the Plans may also surrender shares as payment of applicable tax withholding on
the vesting of restricted stock and deferred share awards. Shares so surrendered by participants in the Plans are repurchased pursuant to the terms of the Plans and applicable award agreements and not
pursuant to publicly announced share repurchase programs.
         (2)       The Company's common stock repurchase program was initially announced on July 15, 2002. As of the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Board approved
purchases up to
$40.0 billion. The program does not have a prescribed expiration date.      

   Sales of Unregistered Securities     

  During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company issued 6,997 deferred stock units under The Home Depot, Inc. NonEmployee Directors' Deferred Stock Compensation
Plan pursuant to the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The deferred stock units were credited to the accounts of such nonemployee
directors who elected to receive board retainers in the form of deferred stock units instead of cash during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. The deferred stock units convert to shares of common
stock on a one-for-one basis following a termination of service as described in this plan.   

  During
the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company credited 32,779 deferred stock units to participant accounts under The Home Depot FutureBuilder Restoration Plan pursuant to an exemption from the
registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, for involuntary, non-contributory plans. The deferred stock units convert to shares of common stock on a
one-for-one basis following the termination of services as described in this plan.   

Item 6.    Selected Financial Data.            

  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to pages F-1 and F-2 of this report.   

  18  

Item 7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.            

    Executive Summary and Selected Consolidated Statements of Earnings Data      

  For fiscal year ended February 3, 2008 ("fiscal 2007"), we reported Net Earnings of $4.4 billion and Diluted Earnings per Share of $2.37 compared to Net Earnings
of $5.8 billion and Diluted Earnings per Share of $2.79 for fiscal year ended January 28, 2007 ("fiscal 2006").   

On
August 30, 2007, we closed the sale of HD Supply. We received net proceeds of $8.3 billion for the sale of HD Supply and recognized a loss of $4 million, net of tax, for the
sale of the business. HD Supply is being reported as a discontinued operation in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings for all periods presented.   

  We
reported Earnings from Continuing Operations of $4.2 billion and Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations of $2.27 for fiscal 2007 compared to Earnings from Continuing
Operations of $5.3 billion and Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations of $2.55 for fiscal 2006. Net Sales decreased 2.1% to $77.3 billion for fiscal 2007 from
$79.0 billion for fiscal 2006. Our gross profit margin was 33.6% and our operating margin was 9.4% for fiscal 2007.   

Fiscal
2007 consisted of 53 weeks compared with 52 weeks for fiscal 2006. The 53 rd  week added approximately $1.1 billion in Net Sales and increased Diluted
Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations by approximately $0.04 for fiscal 2007.   

  The
slowdown in the residential construction and home improvement markets negatively affected our Net Sales for fiscal 2007. Our comparable store sales declined 6.7% in fiscal 2007 driven by a 4.4%
decline in comparable store customer transactions, as well as a 2.4% decline in our average ticket to $57.48.   

  We
believe the residential construction and home improvement market will remain soft in 2008. We expect our Net Sales to decline by 4% to 5% and our Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing
Operations to decline by approximately 19% to 24% for fiscal 2008.   

  We
remain committed to the long-term health of our business through our strategy of investing in our retail business through the following five key priorities:   

  Associate
Engagement   We have taken a number of actions to improve associate engagement by changing the way our associates are compensated, recognized and rewarded, including
restructuring our success sharing program, an incentive program for our hourly associates driven by individual store performance. As of the end of fiscal 2007, 44% of our stores were eligible to
receive a success sharing payout for the second half of fiscal 2007 compared to 23% of stores for the same period last year. We also launched a program earlier this year to hire master trade
specialists to bring electrical and plumbing experience and know-how to the stores and to transfer knowledge to other associates. We now have over 2,500 master trade specialists in our
stores.   

  Product
Excitement   In fiscal 2007, we accelerated clearance markdowns to sell through existing product in order to make room for new merchandise as we launched our enhanced
product line review process and in support of merchandising reset activities. We gained market share in paint, appliances and power tools in fiscal 2007 through the addition of new styles and color
choices and by enhancing our product displays. In areas where we have completed our merchandising resets and implemented change from our product line review process, collectively these categories are
outperforming store sales performance in line with our expectations.   

  Shopping
Environment   We continued our store reinvestment program by completing an aggressive list of maintenance projects, including new lighting and basic clean-up
activities for over half of our stores, as well as more complex repair and maintenance activities for hundreds of other stores. In addition to programmatic maintenance, our integrated field and
support center teams have rolled out store   

  19  

standards
to all stores. We developed and piloted common guidelines on store appearance and shopability, including standards for front apron merchandising, wingstack usage, signage presentation,
fixturing and off-shelf product. This initiative helps reduce the amount of time our store managers spend on these issues, removes unnecessary clutter from the aisles and implements a
basic consistent approach in terms of appearance.   

  Product
Availability   We are in the early stages of our supply chain transformation to improve product availability. We have improved management of our in-stock
position, implemented enhancements to our replenishment systems and begun a rollout of a new warehouse management system. We also implemented a pilot of our Rapid Deployment Centers. Optimally, more
volume will pass through the Rapid Deployment Centers than through our traditional distribution centers.   

  Own
the Pro   We have made significant improvements in the services we provide our pro customers, particularly through our pro bid room. The pro bid room, which is available in all
of our stores, allows us to leverage the buying power of The Home Depot for the benefit of our pro customers. Our direct ship program allows us to have large orders delivered from our vendors to the
customer's job site directly, reducing handling, lead-time and cost while building loyalty with the pro customer.   

  We
opened 110 new stores in fiscal 2007, including 10 relocations, bringing our total store count at the end of fiscal 2007 to 2,234. As of the end of fiscal 2007, 243, or approximately 11%, of our
stores were located in Canada, Mexico or China compared to 228 as of fiscal 2006.   

  We
generated $5.7 billion of cash flow from operations in fiscal 2007. We used this cash flow, along with the net proceeds from the sale of HD Supply, to fund $10.8 billion of share
repurchases, including $10.7 billion used to repurchase 289 million shares of our common stock in connection with our tender offer, and $1.7 billion of cash dividends. We also
spent $3.6 billion in capital expenditures.   

  At
the end of fiscal 2007, our long-term debt-to-equity ratio was 64.3% compared to 46.5% at the end of fiscal 2006. Our return on invested capital for continuing
operations (computed on the average of beginning and ending long-term debt and equity for the trailing twelve months) was 13.9% at the end of fiscal 2007 compared to 16.8% for fiscal 2006.   

  20  

We
believe the selected sales data, the percentage relationship between Net Sales and major categories in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings and the percentage change in the dollar amounts of
each of the items presented below is important in evaluating the performance of our business operations. We operate in one operating segment and believe the information presented in our Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations provides an understanding of our business, our operations and our financial condition.   

Note: Certain percentages may not sum to totals due to rounding.     

(1)       Fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005 refer to the fiscal years ended February 3, 2008, January 28, 2007 and January 29, 2006, respectively. Fiscal year 2007 includes
53 weeks; fiscal years 2006 and 2005 include 52 weeks.
         (2)       The 53 rd  week of fiscal 2007 increased customer transactions by 20 million and negatively impacted average ticket by $0.05.
         (3)       Includes Net Sales at locations open greater than 12 months, including relocated and remodeled stores. Retail stores become comparable on the Monday following
their
365 th  day of operation. Comparable store sales is intended only as supplemental information and is not a substitute for Net Sales or Net Earnings presented in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles.      
  21  

Results of Operations      

For an understanding of the significant factors that influenced our performance during the past three fiscal years, the following discussion should be read in conjunction with
the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements presented in this report.   

   Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006     

   Net Sales     

  Fiscal 2007 consisted of 53 weeks compared to 52 weeks in fiscal 2006. Net Sales for fiscal 2007 decreased 2.1%, or $1.7 billion, to $77.3 billion
from $79.0 billion for fiscal 2006. The decrease in Net Sales for fiscal 2007 reflects the impact of negative comparable store sales, partially offset by Net Sales of $3.7 billion for
fiscal 2007 from new stores and $1.1 billion of Net Sales attributable to the additional week in fiscal 2007. Comparable store sales decreased 6.7% for fiscal 2007 compared to a decrease of
2.8% for fiscal 2006.   

  There
were a number of factors that contributed to our comparable store sales decline. The residential construction and home improvement markets continued to be soft, especially in some of our
traditionally strong markets such as Florida, California and the Northeast. We saw relative strength in Flooring, Plumbing, Garden, and Paint as comparable store sales in these areas were above the
Company average for fiscal 2007. We gained market share in power tools and equipment, due in part to our launch of Ryobi One+ lithium products in fiscal 2007. Comparable store sales for Lumber,
Building Materials, Hardware, Lighting, Kitchen/Bath and Millwork were below the Company average for fiscal 2007. The combination of softness in our big ticket categories and commodity price deflation
negatively impacted average ticket, which decreased 2.4% to $57.48 for fiscal 2007.   

  Our
international business performed well in fiscal 2007. Our Mexican stores posted a double digit comparable store sales increase for fiscal 2007, and Canada's comparable store sales were also
positive.   

  In
order to meet our customer service objectives, we strategically open stores near market areas served by existing stores ("cannibalize") to enhance service levels, gain incremental sales and
increase market penetration. Our new stores cannibalized approximately 10% of our existing stores as of the end of fiscal 2007, which had a negative impact to comparable store sales of approximately
1%.   

  We
believe that our sales performance has been, and could continue to be, negatively impacted by the level of competition that we encounter in various markets. Due to the highly-fragmented U.S. home
improvement industry, in which we estimate our market share is approximately 15%, measuring the impact on our sales by our competitors is difficult.   

   Gross Profit     

  Gross Profit decreased 2.1% to $26.0 billion for fiscal 2007 from $26.5 billion for fiscal 2006. Gross Profit as a percent of Net Sales was 33.6% for fiscal 2007,
flat compared to fiscal 2006. Lower deferred interest costs associated with our private label credit card financing programs provided a benefit of 39 basis points to Gross Profit as a percent of Net
Sales for fiscal 2007. Through our private label credit card, we offer no interest/no payment programs. The cost of deferred interest associated with these programs is included in Cost of Sales. For
fiscal 2007, the penetration of our private label and co-branded credit sales was 29.4% compared to 28.0% for fiscal 2006. The deferred interest benefit was mostly offset by a higher
penetration of lower margin products such as appliances and markdowns taken to clear through some seasonal items, such as outdoor power equipment and grills, and to allow us to transition into new
products, such as assembled cabinets and kitchen accessories.   

  22  

Operating Expenses     

  Operating Expenses increased 6.1% to $18.8 billion for fiscal 2007 from $17.7 billion for fiscal 2006. Operating Expenses as a percent of Net Sales were 24.3% for
fiscal 2007 compared to 22.4% for fiscal 2006.   

  Selling,
General and Administrative expenses ("SG A") increased 5.9% to $17.1 billion for fiscal 2007 from $16.1 billion for fiscal 2006. As a percent of Net Sales, SG A was 22.1% for
fiscal 2007 compared to 20.4% for fiscal 2006. Our deleverage in SG A reflects the impact of negative comparable store sales, where for every one percentage point of negative comparable store sales,
we expect to deleverage expenses by about 20 basis points. Additionally in fiscal 2007, our profit sharing with the third-party administrator of the private label credit card portfolio was
$275 million less than what we received in fiscal 2006. We account for profit sharing as a reduction in operating expense. We also recognized $88 million of write-offs
associated with certain future store locations that we determined we will not open and $34 million of expense associated with closing our 11 Home Depot Landscape Supply stores and our Tampa
Call Center in fiscal 2007. SG A also reflects investments we are making in support of our five key priorities. As a percentage of Net Sales, total payroll increased by 76 basis points for fiscal 2007
over the same period last year. This reflects investments in store labor and our Master Trade Specialists program, the impact of our success sharing bonus plans, as well as the negative sales
environment. The increase in SG A for fiscal 2007 over fiscal 2006 was partially offset by $129 million of executive severance recorded in fiscal 2006.   

  Depreciation
and Amortization increased 8.1% to $1.7 billion for fiscal 2007 from $1.6 billion for fiscal 2006. Depreciation and Amortization as a percent of Net Sales was 2.2% for
fiscal 2007 and 2.0% for fiscal 2006. The increase as a percent of Net Sales was primarily due to the depreciation of our investments in store modernization and technology.   

Operating Income     

  Operating Income decreased 18.3% to $7.2 billion for fiscal 2007 from $8.9 billion for fiscal 2006. Operating Income as a percent of Net Sales was 9.4% for fiscal
2007 compared to 11.2% for fiscal 2006.   

   Interest, net     

  In fiscal 2007, we recognized $622 million of net Interest Expense compared to $364 million in fiscal 2006. Net Interest Expense as a percent of Net Sales was
0.8% for fiscal 2007 compared to 0.5% for fiscal 2006. The increase was primarily due to additional interest incurred related to the December 2006 issuance of $750 million of floating rate
Senior Notes, $1.25 billion of 5.25% Senior Notes and $3.0 billion of 5.875% Senior Notes.   

   Provision for Income Taxes     

  Our combined federal and state effective income tax rate for continuing operations decreased to 36.4% for fiscal 2007 from 38.1% for fiscal 2006. The decrease in our effective
income tax rate for fiscal 2007 reflects the impact of a one-time retroactive tax assessment received from the Canadian province of Quebec in the second quarter of fiscal 2006 and tax
benefits recognized upon settlement of several state audits and completion of the fiscal 2003 and 2004 federal tax audits in fiscal 2007.   

Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations     

  Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations were $2.27 for fiscal 2007 and $2.55 for fiscal 2006. The 53 rd  week increased Diluted Earnings per
Share from Continuing Operations by approximately $0.04 for fiscal 2007. Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations were   

  23  

favorably
impacted in both fiscal 2007 and 2006 by the repurchase of shares of our common stock under our $40.0 billion repurchase authorization. We repurchased 293 million shares for
$10.8 billion in fiscal 2007 and 174 million shares for $6.7 billion in fiscal 2006. Since the inception of the program in 2002, we have repurchased 743 million shares of
our common stock for a total of $27.2 billion. As of February 3, 2008, we had $12.8 billion remaining under our authorized share repurchase program.   

   Discontinued Operations     

  Discontinued operations consist of the results of operations through August 30, 2007 and a loss on the sale of HD Supply. Net Sales from discontinued operations were
$7.4 billion for fiscal 2007 compared to $11.8 billion for fiscal 2006. Earnings from Discontinued Operations, net of tax, were $185 million for fiscal 2007, compared to
$495 million for last year. Earnings from Discontinued Operations for fiscal 2007 include a $4 million loss, net of tax, recognized on the sale of the business.   

   Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended January 29, 2006 ("fiscal 2005")     

   Net Sales     

  Net Sales for fiscal 2006 increased 2.6%, or $2.0 billion, to $79.0 billion from $77.0 billion for fiscal 2005. Fiscal 2006 Net Sales growth was primarily
driven by Net Sales of $4.0 billion from new stores. Comparable store sales decreased 2.8% for fiscal 2006 compared to an increase of 3.1% for fiscal 2005. The decline in comparable store sales
was driven by a 4.6% decline in comparable store customer transactions offset in part by a 1.6% increase in average ticket. Our average ticket increased to $58.90 for fiscal 2006 and increased in 8 of
10 selling departments. The decrease in comparable store sales for fiscal 2006 was due to the significant slowdown in the U.S. retail home improvement market as well as difficult
year-over-year comparisons due to sales arising from hurricane activity in fiscal 2005. Both Canada and Mexico experienced positive comparable store sales for fiscal 2006.
Additionally, our comparable store sales results reflect in part the impact of cannibalization. Our new stores cannibalized approximately 14% of our existing stores during fiscal 2006, which had a
negative impact to comparable store sales of approximately 2%.   

   Gross Profit     

  Gross Profit increased 2.3% to $26.5 billion for fiscal 2006 from $25.9 billion for fiscal 2005. Gross Profit as a percent of Net Sales decreased 9 basis points
to 33.6% for fiscal 2006 compared to 33.7% for fiscal 2005. The decline in Gross Profit as a percent of Net Sales reflects a changing mix of products sold primarily due to growth in appliances whose
margin rate is below the Company average.   

   Operating Expenses     

  Operating Expenses increased 4.7% to $17.7 billion for fiscal 2006 from $16.9 billion for fiscal 2005. Operating Expenses as a percent of Net Sales were 22.4% for
fiscal 2006 compared to 21.9% for fiscal 2005.   

  SG A
increased 4.0% to $16.1 billion for fiscal 2006 from $15.5 billion for fiscal 2005. As a percent of Net Sales, SG A was 20.4% for fiscal 2006 and 20.1% for fiscal 2005. The increase
in SG A during fiscal 2006 was due to added associate labor hours on the floor of our stores, increased spending on store maintenance programs and the expansion of merchandise display resets. This
increase was partially offset by reduced self-insurance costs as we continue to realize benefits from safety programs and other initiatives. Also in fiscal 2006, we received more benefits
under our profit sharing provision with the third-party administrator of the private label credit card portfolio than in fiscal 2005.   

Also
impacting our SG A in fiscal 2006 was expense associated with executive severance of $129 million and the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS")
No. 123(R),   

  24  

"Share-Based
Payment" ("SFAS 123(R)"), whereby we recorded approximately $40 million of stock compensation expense related to the continued vesting of options granted prior to fiscal
2003. Partially offsetting the increase in SG A was $91 million of impairment charges and expense related to lease obligations associated with the closing of 20 EXPO Design Center stores in
fiscal 2005.   

  Depreciation
and Amortization increased 11.6% to $1.6 billion for fiscal 2006 from $1.4 billion for fiscal 2005. Depreciation and Amortization as a percent of Net Sales was 2.0% for
fiscal 2006 and 1.8% for fiscal 2005. The increase as a percent of Net Sales was primarily due to the depreciation of our investments in store modernization and technology.   

   Operating Income     

  Operating Income decreased 2.0% to $8.9 billion for fiscal 2006 from $9.0 billion for fiscal 2005. Operating Income as a percent of Net Sales was 11.2% for fiscal
2006 and 11.8% for fiscal 2005.   

   Interest, net     

  In fiscal 2006, we recognized $364 million of net Interest Expense compared to $80 million in fiscal 2005. Net Interest Expense as a percent of Net Sales was 0.5%
for fiscal 2006 compared to 0.1% for fiscal 2005. The increase was primarily due to additional interest incurred related to the March 2006 issuance of $1.0 billion of 5.20% Senior Notes and
$3.0 billion of 5.40% Senior Notes and the December 2006 issuance of $750 million of floating rate Senior Notes, $1.25 billion of 5.25% Senior Notes and $3.0 billion of
5.875% Senior Notes.   

   Provision for Income Taxes     

  Our combined federal, state and foreign effective income tax rate increased to 38.1% for fiscal 2006 from 37.1% for fiscal 2005. The increase in our effective income tax rate
for fiscal 2006 was primarily due to the impact of a retroactive tax assessment from the Canadian province of Quebec. During the second quarter of fiscal 2006, the Quebec National Assembly passed
legislation that retroactively changed certain tax laws that subjected us to additional tax and interest. As a result, we received an
assessment from Quebec for $57 million in retroactive tax and $12 million in related interest for the 2002 through 2005 taxable years.   

Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations     

  Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations were $2.55 for fiscal 2006 and $2.63 for fiscal 2005. Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations were favorably
impacted in both fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 by the repurchase of shares of our common stock.   

    Liquidity and Capital Resources      

  Cash flow generated from operations provides a significant source of liquidity. For fiscal 2007, Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities was $5.7 billion as compared
to $7.7 billion for fiscal 2006. This change was primarily a result of decreased Net Earnings and changes in working capital.   

Investing
activities provided $4.8 billion for fiscal 2007 compared to $7.6 billion used in investing activities for fiscal 2006. This increase was primarily the result of
$8.3 billion of net proceeds from the sale of HD Supply in the third quarter of fiscal 2007 and $4.3 billion less in Payments for Businesses Acquired in fiscal 2007. The sale of HD
Supply principally resulted in reductions in the following balance sheet accounts: Receivables, Merchandise Inventories, Goodwill, Other Assets, Accounts Payable and Accrued Salaries and Related
Expenses.   

  Additionally
in fiscal 2007, we spent $3.6 billion on Capital Expenditures, allocated as follows: 56% for new stores, 8% for store modernization, 15% for technology and 21% for other
initiatives. Of the   

  25  

$3.6 billion
in capital expenditures approximately $3.4 billion was for retail operations. In fiscal 2007, we added 110 new stores, including 10 relocations.   

  Net
Cash Used in Financing Activities for fiscal 2007 was $10.6 billion compared with $203 million for fiscal 2006. The increase in Net Cash Used in Financing Activities was primarily
due to $4.1 billion more in common stock share repurchases than last year, including the repurchase of 289 million shares of our common stock for $10.7 billion in connection with
our tender offer, along with $8.9 billion less in Proceeds from Borrowings of Long-Term Debt in fiscal 2007.   

On
June 18, 2007, the Board of Directors authorized a recapitalization of the Company, including an additional $22.5 billion in common stock repurchases. We closed the sale of HD Supply
on August 30, 2007 and used the proceeds from the sale and cash on hand to repurchase 289 million shares of our common stock for $10.7 billion, or $37 per share, in settlement of
a related tender offer. In November 2007, we retired 735 million shares of our treasury stock. Since the inception of our share repurchase program in 2002, we have repurchased
743 million shares of our common stock for a total of $27.2 billion. As of February 3, 2008, $12.8 billion remained under our share repurchase authorization. We anticipate
issuing debt to complete the remainder of our recapitalization plan.   

  We
have commercial paper programs that allow for borrowings up to $3.25 billion. In connection with the programs, we have a back-up credit facility with a consortium of banks for
borrowings up to $3.0 billion. As of February 3, 2008, there was $1.7 billion outstanding under the commercial paper programs and there were no borrowings outstanding under the
related credit facility. We do not foresee borrowings under the commercial paper programs beyond the $3.0 billion back-up credit facility. The credit facility, which expires in December 2010,
contains various restrictive covenants, all of which we are in compliance with. None of the covenants are expected to impact our liquidity or capital resources.   

We
use capital and operating leases to finance a portion of our real estate, including our stores, distribution centers and store support centers. The net present value of capital lease obligations is
reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets in Long-Term Debt. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the operating leases are not reflected in our Consolidated
Balance Sheets. As of the end of fiscal 2007, our long-term debt-to-equity ratio was 64.3% compared to 46.5% at the end of fiscal 2006. This increase reflects the
net increase in Long-Term Debt as a result of the December 2006 Issuance of $750 million of floating rate Senior Notes, $1.25 billion of 5.25% Senior Notes and
$3.0 billion of 5.875% Senior Notes.   

  As
of February 3, 2008, we had $457 million in Cash and Short-Term Investments. We believe that our current cash position and cash flow generated from operations should be
sufficient to enable us to complete our capital expenditure programs and any required long-term debt payments through the next several fiscal years. In addition, we have funds available
from our commercial paper programs and we believe we have the ability to obtain alternative sources of financing for other requirements.   

  During
fiscal 2007, we entered into interest rate swaps, accounted for as fair value hedges, with notional amounts of $2.0 billion that swap fixed rate interest on our $3.0 billion 5.40%
Senior Notes for variable rate interest equal to LIBOR plus 60 to 149 basis points that expire on March 1, 2016. At February 3, 2008, the approximate fair value of these agreements was
an asset of $29 million, which is the estimated amount we would have received to settle similar interest rate swap agreements at current interest rates.   

Also
during fiscal 2007, we entered into an interest rate swap, accounted for as a cash flow hedge, with a notional amount of $750 million that swaps variable rate interest on our
$750 million floating rate Senior Notes for fixed rate interest at 4.36% that expires on December 16, 2009. At February 3, 2008, the approximate fair value of this agreement was a
liability of $17 million, which is the estimated amount we would have paid to settle similar interest rate swap agreements at current interest rates.   

  26  

The
following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations as of February 3, 2008 (amounts in millions):   

(1)       Excludes present value of capital lease obligations of $415 million. Includes $7.0 billion of interest payments and $65 million of unamortized discount.
         (2)       Includes $872 million of imputed interest.
         (3)       Purchase obligations include all legally binding contracts such as firm commitments for inventory purchases, utility purchases, capital expenditures, software
acquisition and license
commitments and legally binding service contracts. Purchase orders that are not binding agreements are excluded from the table above.
         (4)       Excludes $602 million of noncurrent unrecognized tax benefits due to uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash payments related to the FIN 48
liabilities.      

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk      

  Our exposure to market risk results primarily from fluctuations in interest rates. Although we have international operating entities, our exposure to foreign currency rate
fluctuations is not significant to our financial condition and results of operations. Our primary objective for entering into derivative instruments is to manage our exposure to interest rates, as
well as to maintain an appropriate mix of fixed and variable rate debt.   

  As
of February 3, 2008 we had, net of discounts, $11.0 billion of Senior Notes outstanding. The market values of the publicly traded Senior Notes as of February 3, 2008, were
approximately $10.5 billion.   

   Impact of Inflation, Deflation and Changing Prices     

  We have experienced inflation and deflation related to our purchase of certain commodity products. We do not believe that changing prices for commodities have had a material
effect on our Net Sales or results of operations. Although we cannot precisely determine the overall effect of inflation and deflation on operations, we do not believe inflation and deflation have had
a material effect on our results of operations.   

  27  

Critical Accounting Policies      

  Our significant accounting policies are disclosed in Note 1 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following discussion addresses our most critical accounting
policies, which are those that are both important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and that require significant judgment or use of complex estimates.   

   Revenue Recognition     

  We recognize revenue, net of estimated returns and sales tax, at the time the customer takes possession of the merchandise or receives services. We estimate the liability for
sales returns based on our historical return levels. We believe that our estimate for sales returns is an accurate reflection of future returns. We have never recorded a significant adjustment to our
estimated liability for sales returns. However, if these estimates are significantly below the actual amounts, our sales could be adversely impacted. When we receive payment from customers before the
customer has taken possession of the merchandise or the service has been performed, the amount received is recorded as Deferred Revenue in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets until the sale
or service is complete. We also record Deferred Revenue for the sale of gift cards and recognize this revenue upon the redemption of gift cards in Net Sales.   

   Merchandise Inventories     

  Our Merchandise Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market, with approximately 89% valued under the retail inventory
method and the remainder under the cost method. Retailers like The Home Depot, with many different types of merchandise at low unit cost and a large number of transactions, frequently use the retail
inventory method. Under the retail inventory method, Merchandise Inventories are stated at cost, which is determined by applying a cost-to-retail ratio to the ending retail
value of inventories. As our inventory retail value is adjusted regularly to reflect market conditions, our inventory valued under the retail method approximates the lower of cost or market. We
evaluate our inventory valued under the cost method at the end of each quarter to ensure that it is carried at the lower of cost or market. The valuation allowance for Merchandise Inventories valued
under the cost method was not material to our Consolidated Financial Statements as of the end of fiscal 2007 or 2006.   

  Independent
physical inventory counts or cycle counts are taken on a regular basis in each store and distribution center to ensure that amounts reflected in the accompanying Consolidated Financial
Statements for Merchandise Inventories are properly stated. During the period between physical inventory counts in our stores, we accrue for estimated losses related to shrink on a
store-by-store basis. Shrink (or in the case of excess inventory, "swell") is the difference between the recorded amount of inventory and the physical inventory. Shrink may
occur due to theft, loss, inaccurate records for the receipt of inventory or deterioration of goods, among other things. We estimate shrink as a percent of Net Sales using the average shrink results
from the previous two physical inventories. The estimates are evaluated quarterly and adjusted based on recent shrink results and current trends in the business. Actual shrink results did not vary
materially from estimated amounts for fiscal 2007, 2006 or 2005.   

   Self-Insurance     

  We are self-insured for certain losses related to general liability, product liability, automobile, workers' compensation and medical claims. Our liability
represents an estimate of the ultimate cost of claims incurred as of the balance sheet date. The estimated liability is not discounted and is established based upon analysis of historical data and
actuarial estimates, and is reviewed by management and third-party actuaries on a quarterly basis to ensure that the liability is appropriate. While we believe these   

  28  

estimates
are reasonable based on the information currently available, if actual trends, including the severity or frequency of claims, medical cost inflation, or fluctuations in premiums, differ from
our estimates, our results of operations could be impacted. Actual results related to these types of claims did not vary materially from estimated amounts for fiscal 2007, 2006 or 2005.   

   Vendor Allowances     

  Vendor allowances primarily consist of volume rebates that are earned as a result of attaining certain purchase levels and advertising co-op allowances for the
promotion of vendors' products that are typically based on guaranteed minimum amounts with additional amounts being earned for attaining certain purchase levels. These vendor allowances are accrued as
earned, with those allowances received as a result of attaining certain purchase levels accrued over the incentive period based on estimates of purchases. We believe that our estimate of vendor
allowances earned based on expected volume of purchases over the incentive period is an accurate reflection of the ultimate allowance to be received from our vendors.   

  Volume
rebates and advertising co-op allowances earned are initially recorded as a reduction in Merchandise Inventories and a subsequent reduction in Cost of Sales when the related product
is sold. Certain advertising co-op allowances that are reimbursements of specific, incremental and identifiable costs incurred to promote vendors' products are recorded as an offset
against advertising expense.   

   Impairment of Long-Lived Assets     

  We evaluate the carrying value of long-lived assets when management makes the decision to relocate or close a store or other location, or when circumstances
indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. A store's assets are evaluated for impairment by comparing
its undiscounted cash flows with its carrying value. If the carrying value is greater than the undiscounted cash flows, a provision is made to write down the related assets to fair value if the
carrying value is greater than the fair value. We make critical assumptions and estimates in completing impairment assessments of long-lived assets. While we believe these estimates are
reasonable based on the information currently available, if actual results differ from our estimates, our results of operations could be impacted. Impairment losses are recorded as a component of SG A
in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings. When a location closes, we also recognize in SG A the net present value of future lease obligations, less estimated sublease income.   

  In
fiscal 2005, we recorded $91 million in SG A related to asset impairment charges and on-going lease obligations associated with closing 20 EXPO Design Center stores.
Additionally, we recorded $29 million of expense in Cost of Sales in fiscal 2005 related to inventory markdowns in these stores. We also recorded impairments on other closings and relocations
in the ordinary course of business, which were not material to the Consolidated Financial Statements in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005.   

  29  

Recent Accounting Pronouncements      

  In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements"
("SFAS 157"). SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value
measurements. SFAS 157 applies under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements, the FASB having previously concluded in those accounting pronouncements that
fair value is the relevant measurement attribute. Accordingly, SFAS 157 does not require any new fair value measurements. SFAS 157 becomes effective for fiscal years beginning after
November 15, 2007, and will therefore be effective for The Home Depot in fiscal 2008. Implementation of SFAS 157 as it relates to the fair value measurements of nonfinancial assets and
nonfinancial liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in an entity's financial statements on a recurring basis, has been deferred to fiscal years beginning after
November 15, 2008. The adoption of SFAS 157 in fiscal 2008 is not expected to have a material impact on the financial condition of the Company.   

Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.            

  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of
this report.   

  30  

Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.            

   Management's Responsibility for Financial Statements     

  The financial statements presented in this Annual Report have been prepared with integrity and objectivity and are the responsibility of the management of The Home
Depot, Inc. These financial statements have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and properly reflect certain estimates and judgments based upon the
best available information.   

The
financial statements of the Company have been audited by KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm. Their accompanying report is based upon an audit conducted in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).   

  The
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, consisting solely of outside directors, meets five times a year with the independent registered public accounting firm, the internal auditors and
representatives of management to discuss auditing and financial reporting matters. In addition, a telephonic meeting is held prior to each quarterly earnings release. The Audit Committee retains the
independent registered public accounting firm and regularly reviews the internal accounting controls, the activities of the independent registered public accounting firm and internal auditors and the
financial condition of the Company. Both the Company's independent registered public accounting firm and the internal auditors have free access to the Audit Committee.   

   Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting     

  Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f)
promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial
officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of February 3, 2008 based on the framework in    Internal
Control   Integrated Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on our evaluation, our management
concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of February 3, 2008 in providing reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of
February 3, 2008 has been audited by KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included on page 32 in this
Form 10-K.   

/s/     FRANCIS S. BLAKE      Francis S. Blake 
Chairman   
Chief Executive Officer   
     
   /s/     CAROL B. TOM       Carol B. Tom  
Chief Financial Officer   
Executive Vice President   Corporate Services   

31  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm            

  The
Board of Directors and Stockholders 
The Home Depot, Inc.:   

  We
have audited The Home Depot Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of February 3, 2008, based on criteria established in    Internal
Control   Integrated Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Home Depot Inc.'s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying
Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.   

  We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit
also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

  A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   

  Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

In
our opinion, The Home Depot, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of February 3, 2008, based on criteria established in     Internal Control  
Integrated Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.   

  We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Consolidated Balance Sheets of The Home Depot, Inc. and subsidiaries
as of February 3, 2008 and January 28, 2007, and the related Consolidated Statements of Earnings, Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income, and Cash Flows for each of the fiscal
years in the three-year period ended February 3, 2008, and our report dated March 28, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.   

  /s/
KPMG LLP   

  Atlanta,
Georgia 
March 28, 2008   

  32  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm            

  The
Board of Directors and Stockholders 
The Home Depot, Inc.:   

  We
have audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets of The Home Depot, Inc. and subsidiaries as of February 3, 2008 and January 28, 2007, and the related Consolidated
Statements of Earnings, Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income, and Cash Flows for each of the fiscal years in the three-year period ended February 3, 2008. These
Consolidated Financial Statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these Consolidated Financial Statements based on our audits.   

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

  In
our opinion, the Consolidated Financial Statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of The Home Depot, Inc. and subsidiaries as of
February 3, 2008 and January 28, 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the fiscal years in the three-year period ended February 3,
2008, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.   

  As
discussed in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements, effective January 29, 2007, the beginning of the fiscal year ended February 3, 2008, the Company adopted Financial
Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48,    Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   . Also, as discussed in Note 3 to the
consolidated financial statements, effective January 30, 2006, the beginning of the fiscal year ended
January 28, 2007, the Company adopted Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108,    Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements
when Quantifying Misstatements in the Current Year Financial Statements   .   

  We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), The Home Depot, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of
February 3, 2008, based on criteria established in    Internal Control   Integrated Framework    issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated March 28, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over
financial reporting.   

  /s/
KPMG LLP   

  Atlanta,
Georgia 
March 28, 2008   

  33  

THE HOME DEPOT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS            

(1)       Fiscal year ended February 3, 2008 includes 53 weeks. Fiscal years ended January 28, 2007 and January 29, 2006 include 52 weeks.      

   See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.     

  34  

THE HOME DEPOT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS            

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.     

  35  

THE HOME DEPOT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS'   EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME            

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.     

  36  

THE HOME DEPOT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS            

(1)       Fiscal year ended February 3, 2008 includes 53 weeks. Fiscal years ended January 28, 2007 and January 29, 2006 include 52 weeks.      

   See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.     

  37  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

   1.     SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES     

Business, Consolidation and Presentation     

  The Home Depot, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") operate The Home Depot stores, which are full-service, warehouse-style stores averaging
approximately 105,000 square feet in size. The stores stock approximately 35,000 to 45,000 different kinds of building materials, home improvement supplies and lawn and garden products that are sold
to do-it-yourself customers, do-it-for-me customers, home improvement contractors, tradespeople and building maintenance professionals. In
addition, the Company operates EXPO Design Center stores ("EXPO"), which offer products and services primarily related to design and renovation projects. At the end of fiscal 2007, the Company was
operating 2,234 stores in total, which included 1,950 The Home Depot stores, 34 EXPO stores, five Yardbirds stores and two THD Design Center stores in the United States, including the
territories of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands and Guam ("U.S."), 165 The Home Depot stores in Canada, 66 The Home Depot stores in Mexico and 12 The Home Depot stores in China.   

  Information
related to the Company's discontinued HD Supply business is discussed in Note 2. The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned
subsidiaries. All significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.   

   Fiscal Year     

  The Company's fiscal year is a 52- or 53-week period ending on the Sunday nearest to January 31. Fiscal year ended February 3, 2008
("fiscal 2007") includes 53 weeks and fiscal years ended January 28, 2007 ("fiscal 2006") and January 29, 2006 ("fiscal 2005") include 52 weeks.   

   Use of Estimates     

  Management of the Company has made a number of estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities, and reported amounts of revenues and expenses in preparing these financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. Actual results could differ
from these estimates.   

   Fair Value of Financial Instruments     

  The carrying amounts of Cash and Cash Equivalents, Receivables, Short-Term Debt and Accounts Payable approximate fair value due to the short-term
maturities of these financial instruments. The fair value of the Company's investments is discussed under the caption "Short-Term Investments" in this Note 1. The fair value of the
Company's Long-Term Debt is discussed in Note 5.   

   Cash Equivalents     

  The Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. The Company's Cash Equivalents are
carried at fair market value and consist primarily of high-grade commercial paper, money market funds and U.S. government agency securities.   

Short-Term Investments     

  Short-Term Investments are recorded at fair value based on current market rates and are classified as available-for-sale.   

  38  

Accounts Receivable     

  The Company has an agreement with a third-party service provider who directly extends credit to customers, manages the Company's private label credit card program and owns the
related receivables. We evaluated the third-party entities holding the receivables under the program and concluded that they should not be consolidated by the Company in accordance with the provisions
of Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation No. 46(R), "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities." The agreement with the third-party service provider expires in 2011,
with the Company having the option, but no obligation, to purchase the receivables at the end of the agreement. The deferred interest charges incurred by the Company for its deferred financing
programs offered to its customers are included in Cost of Sales. The interchange fees charged to the Company for the customers' use of the cards and the profit sharing with the third-party
administrator are included in Selling, General and Administrative expenses ("SG A").   

  In
addition, certain subsidiaries of the Company extend credit directly to customers in the ordinary course of business. The receivables due from customers were $57 million and
$1.8 billion as of February 3, 2008 and January 28, 2007, respectively, a decrease resulting from the sale of HD Supply. The Company's valuation reserve related to accounts
receivable was not material to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company as of the end of fiscal 2007 or 2006.   

   Merchandise Inventories     

  The majority of the Company's Merchandise Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market, as determined by the retail
inventory method. As the inventory retail value is adjusted regularly to reflect market conditions, the inventory valued using the retail method approximates the lower of cost or market. Certain
subsidiaries, including retail operations in Mexico and China, and distribution centers record Merchandise Inventories at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market, as
determined by the cost
method. These Merchandise Inventories represent approximately 11% of the total Merchandise Inventories balance. The Company evaluates the inventory valued using the cost method at the end of each
quarter to ensure that it is carried at the lower of cost or market. The valuation allowance for Merchandise Inventories valued under the cost method was not material to the Consolidated Financial
Statements of the Company as of the end of fiscal 2007 or 2006.   

  Independent
physical inventory counts or cycle counts are taken on a regular basis in each store and distribution center to ensure that amounts reflected in the accompanying Consolidated Financial
Statements for Merchandise Inventories are properly stated. During the period between physical inventory counts in stores, the Company accrues for estimated losses related to shrink on a
store-by-store basis based on historical shrink results and current trends in the business. Shrink (or in the case of excess inventory, "swell") is the difference between the
recorded amount of inventory and the physical inventory. Shrink may occur due to theft, loss, inaccurate records for the receipt of inventory or deterioration of goods, among other things.   

Income Taxes     

  The Company provides for federal, state and foreign income taxes currently payable, as well as for those deferred due to timing differences between reporting income and
expenses for financial statement purposes versus tax purposes. Federal, state and foreign tax benefits are recorded as a reduction of income taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized
for the future tax consequences attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax
assets and liabilities are measured using enacted income tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The
effect of a change in income tax rates is recognized as income or expense in the period that includes the enactment date.   

  39  

The
Company and its eligible subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return. Non-U.S. subsidiaries and certain U.S. subsidiaries, which are consolidated for
financial reporting purposes, are not eligible to be included in the Company's consolidated U.S. federal income tax return. Separate provisions for income taxes have been determined for these
entities. The Company intends to reinvest substantially all of the unremitted earnings of its non-U.S. subsidiaries and postpone their remittance indefinitely. Accordingly, no provision
for U.S. income taxes for these non-U.S. subsidiaries was recorded in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings.   

   Depreciation and Amortization     

  The Company's Buildings, Furniture, Fixtures and Equipment are recorded at cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of
the assets. Leasehold Improvements are amortized using the straight-line method over the original term of the lease or the useful life of the improvement, whichever is shorter. The
Company's Property and Equipment is depreciated using the following estimated useful lives:   

Capitalized Software Costs     

  The Company capitalizes certain costs related to the acquisition and development of software and amortizes these costs using the straight-line method over the
estimated useful life of the software, which is three to six years. These costs are included in Furniture, Fixtures and Equipment in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. Certain development
costs not meeting the criteria for capitalization are expensed as incurred.   

   Revenues     

The Company recognizes revenue, net of estimated returns and sales tax, at the time the customer takes possession of merchandise or receives services. The liability for sales
returns is estimated based on historical return levels. When the Company receives payment from customers before the customer
has taken possession of the merchandise or the service has been performed, the amount received is recorded as Deferred Revenue in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets until the sale or service
is complete. The Company also records Deferred Revenue for the sale of gift cards and recognizes this revenue upon the redemption of gift cards in Net Sales. Gift card breakage income is recognized
based upon historical redemption patterns and represents the balance of gift cards for which the Company believes the likelihood of redemption by the customer is remote. During fiscal 2007, 2006 and
2005, the Company recognized $36 million, $33 million and $52 million, respectively, of gift card breakage income. Fiscal 2005 was the first year in which the Company recognized
gift card breakage income, and therefore, the amount recognized includes the gift card breakage income related to gift cards sold since the inception of the gift card program. This income is recorded
as other income and is included in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings as a reduction in SG A.   

   Services Revenue     

  Net Sales include services revenue generated through a variety of installation, home maintenance and professional service programs. In these programs, the customer selects and
purchases material for a project and the Company provides or arranges professional installation. These programs are offered through the Company's stores. Under certain programs, when the Company
provides or arranges the installation of a project and the subcontractor provides material as part of the installation, both the   

  40  

material
and labor are included in services revenue. The Company recognizes this revenue when the service for the customer is complete.   

All
payments received prior to the completion of services are recorded in Deferred Revenue in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. Services revenue was $3.5 billion,
$3.8 billion and $3.5 billion for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

   Self-Insurance     

  The Company is self-insured for certain losses related to general liability, product liability, automobile, workers' compensation and medical claims. The expected
ultimate cost for claims incurred as of the balance sheet date is not discounted and is recognized as a liability. The expected ultimate cost of claims is estimated based upon analysis of historical
data and actuarial estimates.   

   Prepaid Advertising     

  Television and radio advertising production costs, along with media placement costs, are expensed when the advertisement first appears. Included in Other Current Assets in the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets are $31 million and $44 million, respectively, at the end of fiscal 2007 and 2006 relating to prepayments of production costs for print and
broadcast advertising as well as sponsorship promotions.   

   Vendor Allowances     

  Vendor allowances primarily consist of volume rebates that are earned as a result of attaining certain purchase levels and advertising co-op allowances for the
promotion of vendors' products that are typically based on guaranteed minimum amounts with additional amounts being earned for attaining certain purchase levels. These vendor allowances are accrued as
earned, with those allowances received as a result of attaining certain purchase levels accrued over the incentive period based on estimates of purchases.   

  Volume
rebates and certain advertising co-op allowances earned are initially recorded as a reduction in Merchandise Inventories and a subsequent reduction in Cost of Sales when the related
product is sold. Certain advertising co-op allowances that are reimbursements of specific, incremental and identifiable costs incurred to promote vendors' products are recorded as an
offset against advertising expense. In fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, gross advertising expense was $1.2 billion, $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, which was recorded in
SG A. Advertising co-op allowances were $120 million, $83 million and $50 million for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and were recorded as an offset to
advertising expense in SG A.   

   Cost of Sales     

  Cost of Sales includes the actual cost of merchandise sold and services performed, the cost of transportation of merchandise from vendors to the Company's stores, locations or
customers, the operating cost of the Company's sourcing and distribution network and the cost of deferred interest programs offered through the Company's private label credit card program.   

  The
cost of handling and shipping merchandise from the Company's stores, locations or distribution centers to the customer is classified as SG A. The cost of shipping and handling, including internal
costs and payments to third parties, classified as SG A was $571 million, $545 million and $480 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

  41  

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets     

  Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired. The Company does not amortize goodwill, but does assess the recoverability of
goodwill in the third quarter of each fiscal year by determining whether the fair value of each reporting unit supports its carrying value. The fair values of the Company's identified reporting units
were estimated using the expected present value of discounted cash flows.   

  The
Company amortizes the cost of other intangible assets over their estimated useful lives, which range from 1 to 20 years, unless such lives are deemed indefinite. Intangible assets with
indefinite lives are tested in the third quarter of each fiscal year for impairment. The Company recorded no impairment charges for goodwill or other intangible assets for fiscal 2007, 2006 or 2005.   

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets     

  The Company evaluates the carrying value of long-lived assets when management makes the decision to relocate or close a store or other location, or when
circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. A store's assets are evaluated for impairment by comparing its undiscounted cash flows with its carrying value. If the
carrying value is greater than the undiscounted cash flows, a provision is made to write down the related assets to fair value if the carrying value is greater than the fair value. Impairment losses
are recorded as a component of SG A in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings. When a location closes, the Company also recognizes in SG A the net present value of future lease
obligations, less estimated sublease income.   

  In
fiscal 2005 the Company recorded $91 million in SG A related to asset impairment charges and on-going lease obligations associated with closing 20 of its EXPO stores.
Additionally, the Company recorded $29 million of expense in Cost of Sales in fiscal 2005 related to inventory markdowns in these stores. The Company also recorded impairments on other closings
and relocations in the ordinary course of business, which were not material to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005.   

   Stock-Based Compensation     

  Effective February 3, 2003, the Company adopted the fair value method of recording stock-based compensation expense in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards ("SFAS") No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS 123"). The Company selected the prospective method of adoption as described in SFAS No. 148,
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation   Transition and Disclosure," and accordingly, stock-based compensation expense was recognized for stock options granted, modified or
settled and expense related to the Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP") after the beginning of fiscal 2003. Effective January 30, 2006, the Company adopted the fair value recognition
provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), "Share-Based Payment" ("SFAS 123(R)"), using the modified prospective transition method. Under the modified prospective transition method, the Company
began expensing unvested options granted prior to fiscal 2003 in addition to continuing to recognize stock-based compensation expense for all share-based payments awarded since the adoption of
SFAS 123 in fiscal 2003. During fiscal 2006, the Company recognized additional stock compensation expense of approximately $40 million as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123(R).
Results of prior periods have not been restated.   

  42  

The
per share weighted average fair value of stock options granted during fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $9.45, $11.88 and $12.83, respectively. The fair value of these options was determined at the
date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions:   

The following table illustrates the effect on Net Earnings and Earnings per Share as if the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123(R) to
all stock-based compensation in each period (amounts in millions, except per share data):   

Derivatives     

  The Company uses derivative financial instruments from time to time in the management of its interest rate exposure on long-term debt and its exposure on foreign
currency fluctuations. The Company accounts for its derivative financial instruments in accordance with SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities."   

   Comprehensive Income     

  Comprehensive Income includes Net Earnings adjusted for certain revenues, expenses, gains and losses that are excluded from Net Earnings under generally accepted accounting
principles in the U.S. Adjustments to Net Earnings and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income consist primarily of foreign currency translation adjustments.   

   Foreign Currency Translation     

  Assets and Liabilities denominated in a foreign currency are translated into U.S. dollars at the current rate of exchange on the last day of the reporting period.
Revenues and Expenses are generally   

  43  

translated
using average exchange rates for the period and equity transactions are translated using the actual rate on the day of the transaction.   

   Segment Information     

  The Company operates within a single operating segment primarily within North America. Net Sales for the Company outside of the U.S. were $7.4 billion,
$6.3 billion and $5.2 billion for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Long-lived assets outside of the U.S. totaled $3.1 billion and $2.5 billion as of
February 3, 2008 and January 28, 2007, respectively.   

   Reclassifications     

  Certain amounts in prior fiscal years have been reclassified to conform with the presentation adopted in the current fiscal year.   

   2.     DISPOSITION AND ACQUISITIONS     

  On August 30, 2007, the Company closed the sale of HD Supply. The Company received $8.3 billion of net proceeds for the sale of HD Supply and recognized a
$4 million loss, net of tax, on the sale of the business, subject to the finalization of working capital adjustments. Also in connection with the sale, the Company purchased a 12.5% equity
interest in the newly formed HD Supply for $325 million, which is included in Other Assets in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.   

Also
in connection with the sale, the Company guaranteed a $1.0 billion senior secured loan ("guaranteed loan") of HD Supply. The fair value of the guarantee, which was determined to be
approximately $16 million, is recorded as a liability of the Company and included in Other
Long-Term Liabilities. The guaranteed loan has a term of five years and the Company would be responsible for up to $1.0 billion and any unpaid interest in the event of
non-payment by HD Supply. The guaranteed loan is collateralized by certain assets of HD Supply.   

  In
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets" ("SFAS 144"), the Company
reclassified the results of HD Supply as discontinued operations in its Consolidated Statements of Earnings for all periods presented.   

The
following table presents Net Sales and Earnings of HD Supply through August 30, 2007 which have been reclassified to discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings for
fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 (amounts in millions):   

During fiscal 2007, the Company acquired Ohio Water   Waste Supply, Inc. and Geosynthetics, Inc. These acquisitions operated under HD Supply and were
included in the disposition. The aggregate purchase price for acquisitions in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $25 million, $4.5 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively, including
$3.5 billion for Hughes Supply in fiscal 2006. The Company recorded Goodwill related to the HD Supply businesses of $20 million, $2.8 billion and $1.8 billion for   

  44  

fiscal
2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and recorded no Goodwill related to its retail businesses for fiscal 2007 compared to $229 million and $111 million for fiscal 2006 and 2005,
respectively, in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.   

   3.     STAFF ACCOUNTING BULLETIN NO. 108     

  In fiscal 2006, the Company adopted Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108, "Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current
Year Financial Statements" ("SAB 108"). SAB 108 addresses the process of quantifying prior year financial statement misstatements and their impact on current year financial statements.
The provisions of SAB 108 allowed companies to report the cumulative effect of correcting immaterial prior year misstatements, based on the Company's historical method for evaluating
misstatements, by adjusting the opening balance of retained earnings in the financial statements of the year of adoption rather than amending previously filed reports. In accordance with
SAB 108, the Company adjusted beginning Retained Earnings for fiscal 2006 in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements for the items described below. The Company does not consider
these adjustments to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements in any of the prior years affected.   

Historical Stock Option Practices     

  During fiscal 2006, the Company requested that its Board of Directors review its historical stock option granting practices. A subcommittee of the Audit Committee undertook the
review with the assistance of independent outside counsel, and it has completed its review. The principal findings of the 2006 review were as follows:   

All
options granted in the period from 2002 through the present had an exercise price based on the market price of the Company's stock on the date the grant was approved by
the Board of Directors or an officer acting pursuant to delegated authority. During this period, the stock administration department corrected administrative errors retroactively and without separate
approvals. The administrative errors included inadvertent omissions of grantees from lists that were approved previously and miscalculations of the number of options granted to particular employees on
approved lists.
           All
options granted from December 1, 2000 through the end of 2001 had an exercise price based on the market price of the Company's stock on the date of a meeting of
the Board of Directors or some other date selected without the benefit of hindsight. The February 2001 annual grant was not finally allocated to recipients until several weeks after the grant was
approved. During this period, the stock administration department also corrected administrative errors retroactively and without separate approvals as in the period 2002 to the present.
           For
annual option grants and certain quarterly option grants from 1981 through November 2000, the stated grant date was routinely earlier than the actual date on which the
grants were approved by a committee of the Board of Directors. In almost every instance, the stock price on the apparent approval date was higher than the price on the stated grant date. The
backdating occurred for grants at all levels of the Company. Management personnel, who have since left the Company, generally followed a practice of reviewing closing prices for a prior period and
selecting a date with a low stock price to increase the value of the options to employees on lists of grantees subsequently approved by a committee of the Board of Directors.
           The
annual option grants in 1994 through 2000, as well as many quarterly grants during this period, were not finally allocated among the recipients until several weeks after
the stated grant date. Because of the absence of records prior to 1994, it is unclear whether allocations also postdated the selected grant dates from 1981 through 1993. Moreover, for many of these
annual and quarterly grants from 1981 through December 2000, there is insufficient documentation to    
 
  45  

determine
with certainty when the grants were actually authorized by a committee of the Board of Directors. Finally, the Company's stock administration department also retroactively added employees to
lists of approved grantees, or changed the number of options granted to specific employees, without authorization of the Board of Directors or a board committee, to correct administrative errors.   

Numerous
option grants to rank-and-file employees were made pursuant to delegations of authority that may not have been effective under Delaware law.
           In
numerous instances, and primarily prior to 2003, beneficiaries of grants who were required to report them to the SEC failed to do so in a timely manner or at all.
           The
subcommittee concluded that there was no intentional wrongdoing by any current member of the Company's management team or its Board of Directors.    

The
Company believes that because of these errors, it had unrecorded expense over the affected period (1981 through 2005) of $227 million in the aggregate, including related tax items. In
accordance with the provisions of SAB 108, the Company decreased beginning Retained Earnings for fiscal 2006 by $227 million within the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.   

As
previously disclosed, the staff of the SEC began in June 2006 an informal inquiry into the Company's stock option practices, and the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York has also
requested information on the subject. The Company is continuing to cooperate with these agencies. While the Company cannot predict the outcome of these matters, it does not believe that they will have
a material adverse impact on its consolidated financial condition or results of operations.   

  The
Company does not believe that the effect of the stock option adjustment was material, either quantitatively or qualitatively, in any of the years covered by the review of these items. In reaching
that determination, the following quantitative measures were considered (dollars in millions):   

Vendor Credits     

  The Company records credits against vendor invoices for various issues related to the receipt of goods. The Company previously identified that it was not recording an allowance
for subsequent reversals of these credits based on historical experience. Beginning Retained Earnings for fiscal 2006 was decreased by $30 million in the accompanying Consolidated Financial
Statements to reflect the appropriate adjustments to Merchandise Inventories and Accounts Payable, net of tax.   

  46  

Impact of Adjustments     

  The impact of each of the items noted above, net of tax, on fiscal 2006 beginning balances are presented below (amounts in millions):   

4.     INTANGIBLE ASSETS     

  The Company's intangible assets at the end of fiscal 2007 and 2006, which are included in Other Assets in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets, consisted of the
following (amounts in millions):   

The decrease in intangible assets from January 28, 2007 to February 3, 2008 was a result of the sale of HD Supply. Amortization expense related to intangible
assets in continuing operations was $9 million, $10 million and less than $1 million for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Estimated future amortization expense for
intangible assets recorded as of February 3, 2008 is $8 million, $8 million, $8 million, $5 million and $4 million for fiscal 2008 through fiscal 2012,
respectively.   

   5.     DEBT     

  The Company has commercial paper programs that allow for borrowings up to $3.25 billion. All of the Company's short-term borrowings in fiscal 2007 and 2006
were under these commercial paper programs. In connection with the commercial paper programs, the Company has a back-up credit facility with a consortium of banks for borrowings up to
$3.0 billion. The credit facility, which expires in December 2010, contains various restrictions, none of which is expected to materially impact the Company's liquidity or capital resources.   

  Short-Term
Debt under the commercial paper program was as follows (dollars in millions):   

47  

The Company's Long-Term Debt at the end of fiscal 2007 and 2006 consisted of the following (amounts in millions):   

At February 3, 2008, the Company had outstanding interest rate swaps, accounted for as fair value hedges, with notional amounts of $2.0 billion that swap fixed
rate interest on the Company's $3.0 billion 5.40% Senior Notes for variable rate interest equal to LIBOR plus 60 to 149 basis points that expire on March 1, 2016. At February 3,
2008, the approximate fair value of these agreements was an asset of $29 million, which is the estimated amount the Company would have received to settle similar interest rate swap agreements
at current interest rates.   

  At
February 3, 2008, the Company had outstanding an interest rate swap, accounted for as a cash flow hedge, with a notional amount of $750 million that swaps variable rate interest on
the Company's $750 million floating rate Senior Notes for fixed rate interest at 4.36% that expires on December 16, 2009. At February 3, 2008, the approximate fair value of this
agreement was a liability of $17 million, which is the estimated amount the Company would have paid to settle similar interest rate swap agreements at current interest rates.   

  In
December 2006, the Company issued $750 million of floating rate Senior Notes due December 16, 2009 at par value, $1.25 billion of 5.25% Senior Notes due December 16,
2013 at a discount of $7 million and $3.0 billion of 5.875% Senior Notes due December 16, 2036 at a discount of $42 million, together the "December 2006 Issuance." The net
proceeds of the December 2006 Issuance were used to fund, in part, the Company's common stock repurchases, to repay outstanding commercial paper and for general corporate purposes. The
$49 million discount and $37 million of issuance costs associated with the December 2006 Issuance are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the related Senior Notes.   

  Additionally
in October 2006, the Company entered into a forward starting interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of $1.0 billion, accounted for as a cash flow hedge, to hedge
interest   

  48  

rate
fluctuations in anticipation of the issuance of the 5.875% Senior Notes due December 16, 2036. Upon issuance of the hedged debt in December 2006, the Company settled its forward starting
interest rate swap agreements and recorded an $11 million decrease, net of income taxes, to Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, which will be amortized to interest expense over the life of
the related debt.   

  In
March 2006, the Company issued $1.0 billion of 5.20% Senior Notes due March 1, 2011 at a discount of $1 million and $3.0 billion of 5.40% Senior Notes due
March 1, 2016 at a discount of $15 million, together the "March 2006 Issuance." The net proceeds of the March 2006 Issuance were used to pay for the acquisition price of Hughes
Supply, Inc. and for the repayment of the Company's 5.375% Senior Notes due April 2006 in the aggregate principal amount of $500 million. The $16 million discount and
$19 million of issuance costs associated with the March 2006 Issuance are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the related Senior Notes.   

Additionally
in March 2006, the Company entered into a forward starting interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of $2.0 billion, accounted for as a cash flow hedge, to hedge
interest rate fluctuations in anticipation of the issuance of the 5.40% Senior Notes due March 1, 2016. Upon issuance of the hedged debt, the Company settled its forward starting interest rate
swap agreements and recorded a $12 million decrease, net of income taxes, to Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, which will be amortized to interest expense over the life of the related
debt.   

  In
August 2005, the Company issued $1.0 billion of 4.625% Notes due August 15, 2010 ("August 2005 Issuance") at a discount of $5 million. The net proceeds of $995 million
were used to pay for a portion of the acquisition price of National Waterworks, Inc. The $5 million discount and $7 million of issuance costs associated with the August 2005
Issuance are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the related Senior Notes.   

  The
Company also had $1.0 billion of 3.75% Senior Notes due September 15, 2009 outstanding as of February 3, 2008, collectively referred to with the December 2006 Issuance, March
2006 Issuance and August 2005 Issuance as "Senior Notes." The Senior Notes may be redeemed by the Company at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price plus accrued interest up to the
redemption date. The redemption price is equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes to be redeemed, or (2) the sum of the present values of the
remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest to maturity. Additionally, if a Change in Control Triggering Event occurs, as defined by the terms of the December 2006 Issuance, holders of the
December 2006 Issuance have the right to require the Company to redeem those notes at 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the notes plus accrued interest up to the redemption date.   

  The
Company is generally not limited under the indenture governing the Senior Notes in its ability to incur additional indebtedness or required to maintain financial ratios or specified levels of net
worth or liquidity. However, the indenture governing the Senior Notes contains various restrictive covenants, none of which is expected to impact the Company's liquidity or capital resources.   

Interest
Expense in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings is net of interest capitalized of $46 million, $47 million and $51 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. Maturities of Long-Term Debt are $300 million for fiscal 2008, $1.8 billion for fiscal 2009, $1.0 billion for fiscal 2010, $1.0 billion for fiscal
2011, $23 million for fiscal 2012 and $7.5 billion thereafter.   

  As
of February 3, 2008, the market value of the Senior Notes was approximately $10.5 billion. The estimated fair value of all other long-term borrowings, excluding capital
lease obligations, was approximately $307 million compared to the carrying value of $302 million. These fair values were estimated using a discounted cash flow analysis based on the
Company's incremental borrowing rate for similar liabilities.   

  49  

6.     INCOME TAXES     

  The components of Earnings From Continuing Operations before Provision for Income Taxes for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows (amounts in millions):   

The Provision for Income Taxes consisted of the following (amounts in millions):   

The Company's combined federal, state and foreign effective tax rates for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, net of offsets generated by federal, state and foreign tax benefits, were
approximately 36.4%, 38.1% and 37.1%, respectively.   

  The
reconciliation of the Provision for Income Taxes at the federal statutory rate of 35% to the actual tax expense for the applicable fiscal years was as follows (amounts in millions):   

50  

The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities as of February 3, 2008 and
January 28, 2007, were as follows (amounts in millions):   

Current deferred tax assets and current deferred tax liabilities are netted by tax jurisdiction and noncurrent deferred tax assets and noncurrent deferred tax liabilities are
netted by tax jurisdiction, and are included in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets as follows (amounts in millions):   

The Company believes that the realization of the deferred tax assets is more likely than not, based upon the expectation that it will generate the necessary taxable income in
future periods and, except for certain net operating losses discussed below, no valuation reserves have been provided. As a result   

  51  

of
disposition of HD Supply, $139 million of net deferred tax liabilities were transferred to the purchaser.   

At
February 3, 2008, the Company had state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards available to reduce future taxable income, expiring at various dates from 2010 to 2027. Management has
concluded that it is more likely than not that the tax benefits related to the net operating losses will be realized. However, certain foreign net operating losses are in jurisdictions where the
expiration period is too short to be assured of utilization. Therefore, a $7 million valuation allowance has been provided to reduce the deferred tax asset related to net operating losses to an
amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Total valuation allowances at February 3, 2008 were $7 million.   

  As
a result of its sale of HD Supply, the Company incurred a tax loss, resulting in a net capital loss carryover of approximately $159 million. The tax loss on sale resulted primarily from the
Company's tax basis in excess of its book investment in HD Supply. The net capital loss carryover will expire in 2012. However, the Company has concluded that it is more likely than not that the tax
benefits related to the capital loss carryover will be realized based on its ability to generate adequate capital gain income during the carryover period. Therefore, no valuation allowance has been
provided.   

  The
Company has not provided for U.S. deferred income taxes on approximately $1.3 billion of undistributed earnings of international subsidiaries because of its intention to indefinitely
reinvest these earnings outside the U.S. The determination of the amount of the unrecognized deferred U.S. income tax liability related to the undistributed earnings is not practicable; however,
unrecognized foreign income tax credits would be available to reduce a portion of this liability.   

  The
Company's income tax returns are routinely under audit by domestic and foreign tax authorities. These audits generally include questions regarding the timing and amount of depreciation deductions
and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In 2005, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") completed its examination of the Company's U.S. federal income tax returns for fiscal
years 2001 and 2002. During 2007, the IRS also completed its examination of the Company's fiscal 2003 and 2004 income tax returns. Certain issues relating to the examinations of fiscal years 2001
through 2004 are under appeal, but only years after fiscal 2004 remain subject to future examination. The Mexican government is currently auditing the Mexican operating subsidiaries' fiscal year 2005
returns, although years after 2001 remain subject to audit. The Canadian governments, including various provinces, are currently auditing income tax returns for the years 2001 through 2005. There are
also U.S. state and local audits covering tax years 2001 to 2005. At this time, the Company does not expect the results from any income tax audit to have a material impact on the Company's financial
statements.   

  On
January 29, 2007, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109"
("FIN 48"). Among other things, FIN 48 requires application of a "more likely than not" threshold to the recognition and derecognition of tax positions. It further requires that a change
in judgment related to prior years' tax positions be recognized in the quarter of such change. The adoption of FIN 48 reduced the Company's Retained Earnings by $111 million. As a result
of the implementation, the gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits at January 29, 2007 for continuing operations totaled $667 million. A reconciliation of the   

  52  

beginning
and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits for continuing operations is as follows (amounts in millions):   

The gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of February 3, 2008 includes $368 million of net unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the
annual effective income tax rate.   

  During
fiscal 2007, the Company increased its interest accrual associated with uncertain tax positions by approximately $32 million and paid interest of approximately $8 million. Total
accrued interest as of February 3, 2008 is $140 million. There were no penalty accruals during fiscal 2007. Interest and
penalties are included in net interest expense and operating expenses, respectively. Our classification of interest and penalties did not change as a result of the adoption of FIN 48.   

The
Company believes that some individual adjustments under appeal for the completed IRS and Canada audits, as well as other state audits, will be agreed upon within the next twelve months. The IRS
issues generally concern the useful life of assets and relevant transfer pricing for intangible assets provided to foreign operations. The Canada issues generally concern the relevant transfer pricing
for intangible assets provided from the U.S. State issues generally concern related party expense add-back provisions and forced combination filings. The Company has classified
approximately $6 million of the reserve for unrecognized tax benefits as a short-term liability in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. In addition, there is a reasonable
possibility that the Company may resolve the Quebec assessment from prior years, which totaled $65 million at February 3, 2008, within the next twelve months. Final settlement of these
audit issues may result in payments that are more or less than these amounts, but the Company does not anticipate the resolution of these matters will result in a material change to its consolidated
financial position or results of operations.   

   7.     EMPLOYEE STOCK PLANS     

  The Home Depot, Inc. 2005 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan ("2005 Plan") and The Home Depot, Inc. 1997 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan ("1997 Plan" and collectively with
the 2005 Plan, the "Plans") provide that incentive and non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted shares, performance shares, performance units and deferred shares
may be issued to selected associates, officers and directors of the Company. Under the 2005 Plan, the maximum number of shares of the Company's common stock authorized for issuance is
255 million shares, with any award other than a stock option reducing the number of shares available for issuance by 2.11 shares. As of February 3, 2008, there were 224 million
shares available for future grants under the 2005 Plan. No additional equity awards may be issued from the 1997 Plan after the adoption of the 2005 Plan on May 26, 2005.   

  Under
the Plans, as of February 3, 2008, the Company had granted incentive and non-qualified stock options for 177 million shares, net of cancellations (of which
127 million have been exercised). Under the terms of the Plans, incentive stock options and non-qualified stock options are to be priced at or above the fair market value of the
Company's stock on the date of the grant. Typically, incentive stock options and non-qualified stock options vest at the rate of 25% per year commencing on the first anniversary date of
the grant and expire on the tenth anniversary date of the grant. The non-qualified   

  53  

stock
options also include performance options which vest on the later of the first anniversary date of the grant and the date the closing price of the Company's common stock has been 25% greater than
the exercise price of the options for 30 consecutive trading days. The Company recognized $61 million, $148 million and $117 million of stock-based compensation expense in fiscal
2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, related to stock options.   

  Under
the Plans, as of February 3, 2008, the Company had issued 16 million shares of restricted stock, net of cancellations (the restrictions on 5 million shares have lapsed).
Generally, the restrictions on the restricted stock lapse according to one of the following schedules: (1) the restrictions on 100% of the restricted stock lapse at 3, 4 or 5 years,
(2) the restrictions on 25% of the restricted stock lapse upon the third and sixth year anniversaries of the date of issuance with the remaining 50% of the restricted stock lapsing upon the
associate's attainment of age 62, or (3) the restrictions on 25% of the restricted stock lapse upon the third and sixth year anniversaries of the date of issuance with the remaining 50% of the
restricted stock lapsing upon the earlier of the associate's attainment of age 60 or the tenth anniversary date. The restricted stock also includes the Company's performance shares, the payout of
which is dependent on the Company's total shareholders return percentile ranking compared to the performance of individual companies included in the S P 500 index at the end of the
three-year performance cycle. Additionally, certain awards may become non-forfeitable upon the attainment of age 60, provided the associate has had five years of
continuous service. The fair value of the restricted stock is expensed over the period during which the restrictions lapse. The Company recorded stock-based compensation expense related to restricted
stock of $122 million, $95 million and $32 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

  In
fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, there were 593,000, 417,000 and 461,000 deferred shares, respectively, granted under the Plans. Each deferred share entitles the associate to one share of common stock
to be received up to five years after the vesting date of the deferred shares, subject to certain deferral rights of the associate. The Company recorded stock-based compensation expense related to
deferred shares of $10 million, $37 million and $10 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

  As
of February 3, 2008, there were 2.5 million non-qualified stock options outstanding under non-qualified stock option plans that are not part of the Plans.   

  The
Company maintains two ESPPs (U.S. and non-U.S. plans). The plan for U.S. associates is a tax-qualified plan under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code. The
non-U.S. plan is not a Section 423 plan. The ESPPs allow associates to purchase up to 152 million shares of common stock, of which 128 million shares have been
purchased from inception of the plans. The purchase price of shares under the ESPPs is equal to 85% of the stock's fair market value on the last day of the purchase period. During fiscal 2007, there
were 3 million shares purchased under the ESPPs at an average price of $28.25. Under the outstanding ESPPs as of February 3, 2008, employees have contributed $8 million to
purchase shares at 85% of the stock's fair market value on the last day (June 30, 2008) of the purchase period. The Company had 24 million shares available for issuance under the ESPPs
at February 3, 2008. The Company recognized $14 million, $17 million and $16 million of stock-based compensation in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, related to the
ESPPs.   

  In
total, the Company recorded stock-based compensation expense, including the expense of stock options, ESPPs, restricted stock and deferred stock units, of $207 million, $297 million
and $175 million, in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

  54  

The following table summarizes stock options outstanding at February 3, 2008, January 28, 2007 and January 29, 2006, and changes during the fiscal years ended on these dates
(shares in thousands):   

The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised during fiscal 2007 was $63 million.   

  As
of February 3, 2008, there were approximately 52 million stock options outstanding with a weighted average remaining life of five years and an intrinsic value of
$30 million. As of February 3, 2008, there were approximately 42 million options exercisable with a weighted average exercise price of $39.43 and an intrinsic value of
$28 million. As of February 3, 2008, there were approximately 51 million shares vested or expected to ultimately vest. As of February 3, 2008, there was $84 million
of unamortized stock-based compensation expense related to stock options which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of two years.   

  The
following table summarizes restricted stock outstanding at February 3, 2008 (shares in thousands):   

As of February 3, 2008, there was $267 million of unamortized stock-based compensation expense related to restricted stock which is expected to be recognized over a
weighted average period of three years.   

  55  

8.     LEASES     

  The Company leases certain retail locations, office space, warehouse and distribution space, equipment and vehicles. While most of the leases are operating leases, certain
locations and equipment are leased under capital leases. As leases expire, it can be expected that, in the normal course of business, certain leases will be renewed or replaced.   

  Certain
lease agreements include escalating rents over the lease terms. The Company expenses rent on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease which commences on the date the
Company has the right to control the property. The cumulative expense recognized on a straight-line basis in excess of the cumulative payments is included in Other Accrued
Expenses and Other Long-Term Liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.   

  The
Company has a lease agreement under which the Company leases certain assets totaling $282 million. This lease was originally created under a structured financing arrangement and involves
two special purpose entities. The Company financed a portion of its new stores opened in fiscal years 1997 through 2003 under this lease agreement. Under this agreement, the lessor purchased the
properties, paid for the construction costs and subsequently leased the facilities to the Company. The Company records the rental payments under the terms of the operating lease agreements as SG A in
the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings.   

  The
$282 million lease agreement expires in fiscal 2008 with no renewal option. The lease provides for a substantial residual value guarantee limited to 79% of the initial book value of the
assets and includes a purchase option at the original cost of each property. During fiscal 2005, the Company committed to exercise its option to purchase the assets under this lease for
$282 million at the end of the lease term in fiscal 2008.   

  In
the first quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company adopted the revised version of FASB Interpretation No. 46(R), "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities" ("FIN 46"). FIN 46
requires consolidation of a variable interest entity if a company's variable interest absorbs a majority of the entity's expected losses or receives a majority of the entity's expected residual
returns, or both. In accordance with FIN 46, the Company was required to consolidate one of the two aforementioned special purpose entities that, before the effective date of FIN 46, met
the requirements for non-consolidation. The second special purpose entity that owns the assets leased by the Company totaling $282 million is not owned by or affiliated with the
Company, its management or its officers. Pursuant to FIN 46, the Company was not deemed to have a variable interest, and therefore was not required to consolidate this entity.   

  FIN 46
requires the Company to measure the assets and liabilities at their carrying amounts, which amounts would have been recorded if FIN 46 had been effective at the inception of the
transaction. Accordingly, during the first quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company recorded Long-Term Debt of $282 million and Long-Term Notes Receivable of
$282 million on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. During fiscal 2007, the liability was reclassified to Current Installments of Long-Term Debt as it is due in fiscal 2008. The
Company continues to record the rental payments under the operating lease agreements as SG A in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The adoption of FIN 46 had no economic impact on the
Company.   

  Total
rent expense, net of minor sublease income for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $824 million, $768 million and $720 million, respectively. Certain store leases also provide
for contingent rent payments based on percentages of sales in excess of specified minimums. Contingent rent expense for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 was approximately $6 million,
$9 million and $9 million, respectively. Real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance and operating expenses applicable to the leased property are obligations of the Company under the lease
agreements.   

  56  

The
approximate future minimum lease payments under capital and all other leases at February 3, 2008 were as follows (in millions):   

Short-term and long-term obligations for capital leases are included in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets in Current Installments of
Long-Term Debt and Long-Term Debt, respectively. The assets under capital leases recorded in Property and Equipment, net of amortization, totaled $327 million and
$340 million at February 3, 2008 and January 28, 2007, respectively.   

   9.     EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS     

  The Company maintains active defined contribution retirement plans for its employees ("the Benefit Plans"). All associates satisfying certain service requirements are eligible
to participate in the Benefit Plans. The Company makes cash contributions each payroll period up to specified percentages of associates' contributions as approved by the Board of Directors.   

  The
Company also maintains a restoration plan to provide certain associates deferred compensation that they would have received under the Benefit Plans as a matching contribution if not for the
maximum compensation limits under the Internal Revenue Code. The Company funds the restoration plan through contributions made to a grantor trust, which are then used to purchase shares of the
Company's common stock in the open market.   

  The
Company's contributions to the Benefit Plans and the restoration plan were $152 million, $135 million and $122 million for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. At
February 3, 2008, the Benefit Plans and the restoration plan held a total of 22 million shares of the Company's common stock in trust for plan participants.   

  57  

10.   BASIC AND DILUTED WEIGHTED AVERAGE COMMON SHARES     

  The reconciliation of basic to diluted weighted average common shares for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 is as follows (amounts in millions):   

Stock plans include shares granted under the Company's employee stock plans as described in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Options to purchase
43.4 million, 45.4 million and 55.1 million shares of common stock at February 3, 2008, January 28, 2007 and January 29, 2006, respectively, were excluded
from the computation of Diluted Earnings per Share because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.   

   11.   COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES     

  At February 3, 2008, the Company was contingently liable for approximately $730 million under outstanding letters of credit and open accounts issued for certain
business transactions, including insurance programs, trade contracts and construction contracts. The Company's letters of credit are primarily performance-based and are not based on changes in
variable components, a liability or an equity security of the other party.   

  The
Company is a defendant in numerous cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs are current and former hourly associates who allege that the Company forced them to work "off
the clock" or failed to provide work breaks, or otherwise that they were not paid for work performed. The complaints generally seek unspecified monetary damages, injunctive relief or both. Class or
collective-action certification has yet to be addressed in most of these cases. The Company cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss which may arise from these lawsuits. These
matters, if decided adversely to or settled by the Company, individually or in the aggregate, may result in a liability material to the Company's consolidated financial condition or results of
operations. The Company is vigorously defending itself against these actions.   

  58  

12.   QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)     

The following is a summary of the quarterly consolidated results of operations from continuing operations for the fiscal years ended February 3, 2008 and
January 28, 2007 (dollars in millions, except per share data):   

Note: The quarterly data may not sum to fiscal year totals.     

  59  

Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.            

  None.   

Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures.            

Disclosure Controls and Procedures     

  The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the Company's Securities Exchange Act reports
is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated
to the Company's management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.   

  The
Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on such evaluation, such officers have
concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, the Company's disclosure controls and procedures were effective.   

   Internal Control Over Financial Reporting     

  There have not been any changes in the Company's internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act) during the fiscal quarter ended February 3, 2008 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the
Company's internal control over financial reporting.   

   Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting     

  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this report.   

Item 9B.    Other Information.            

  The following disclosure would otherwise have been filed on Form 8-K under Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors;
Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers:   

  On
April 3, 2008, the Company announced that Robert P. DeRodes, Executive Vice President   Chief Information Officer, has decided to leave the Company at the end of
the year. A copy of this announcement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.   

  60  

PART III            

Item 10.    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.            

  Information required by this item, other than information regarding the executive officers of the Company which is set forth in Item 4A, is incorporated by reference to
the sections entitled "Election of Directors and Director Biographies," "Board of Directors Information," "General" and "Audit Committee Report" in the Company's Proxy Statement for the 2008 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders (the "Proxy Statement").   

Item 11.    Executive Compensation.            

  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the sections entitled "Executive Compensation," "Compensation Discussion   Analysis," "Compensation
Committee Report" and "Director Compensation" in the Company's Proxy Statement.   

Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.            

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the sections entitled "Beneficial Ownership of Common Stock" and "Executive Compensation" in the Company's
Proxy Statement.   

Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.            

  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the sections entitled "Board of Directors Information" and "General" in the Company's Proxy Statement.   

Item 14.    Principal Accounting Fees and Services.            

  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the section entitled "Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Fees" in the Company's Proxy
Statement.   

  61  

PART IV            

Item 15.    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules.            

                (a)(1)     Financial Statements    

The
following financial statements are set forth in Item 8 hereof:   

Consolidated
Statements of Earnings for the fiscal years ended February 3, 2008, January 28, 2007 and January 29, 2006;
           Consolidated
Balance Sheets as of February 3, 2008 and January 28, 2007;
           Consolidated
Statements of Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income for the fiscal years ended February 3, 2008, January 28, 2007 and January 29,
2006;
           Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows for the fiscal years ended February 3, 2008, January 28, 2007 and January 29, 2006;
           Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements;
           Management's
Responsibility for Financial Statements and Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting; and
           Reports
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.

(2)     Financial
Statement Schedules     

All
schedules are omitted as the required information is inapplicable or the information is presented in the consolidated financial statements or related notes.   

(3)     Exhibits 

Exhibits
marked with an asterisk (*) are incorporated by reference to exhibits or appendices previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as indicated by the references in brackets.
All other exhibits are filed herewith.   

62  

63  

64  

65  

10.49   

Non-Competition Agreement between Annette M. Verschuren and The Home Depot, Inc., dated May 10, 2006.  

10.50   

Separation Agreement   Release between Roger W. Adams and The Home Depot, Inc., dated November 25, 2007.  

*10.51   

Separation Agreement   Release by and between The Home Depot, Inc. and John H. Costello, dated September 8, 2005.[   Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended October 30, 2005,
Exhibit 10.1   ]  

*10.52  

Participation Agreement dated as of October 22, 1998 among The Home Depot, Inc. as Guarantor; Home Depot U.S.A., Inc. as Lessee; HD Real Estate Funding Corp. II as Facility Lender; Credit Suisse Leasing 92A L.P. as Lessor; The
Bank of New York as Indenture Trustee; and Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation and Invemed Associates, Inc. as Initial Purchasers. [   Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 1999,
Exhibit 10.10   ]  

*10.53  

Master Modification Agreement dated as of April 20, 1998 among The Home Depot, Inc. as Guarantor; Home Depot U.S.A., Inc., as Lessee and Construction Agent; HD Real Estate Funding Corp., as Facility Lender; Credit Suisse Leasing
92A L.P. as Lessor; the lenders named on the Schedule thereto as Lenders; and Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation as Agent Bank. [   Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 1999,
Exhibit 10.13   ]  

*10.54  

Credit Agreement between The Home Depot, Inc., Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., Merrill Lynch Capital Corporation and certain of their affiliates, dated August 28, 2007. [   Form 8-K filed on August 31, 2007,
Exhibit 10.1   ]  

12  

Statement of Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.  

21  

List of Subsidiaries of the Company.  

23  

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.  

31.1  

Certification of Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  

31.2  

Certification of Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  

32.1  

Certification of Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

32.2  

Certification of Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

99.1  

Press Release of The Home Depot, Inc. dated April 3, 2008.  

Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit to this form pursuant to Item 15(a) of this report.    
  66  

SIGNATURES            

  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   

THE HOME DEPOT, INC. 
              (Registrant)  

By:  
   
/s/    FRANCIS S. BLAKE            (Francis S. Blake, Chairman   CEO)  

Date:  
   
March 19, 2008  

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.   

67  

INDEX OF ATTACHED EXHIBITS             

68  

10-Year Summary of Financial and Operating Results 
The Home Depot, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

(1)       Fiscal years 2007 and 2001 include 53 weeks; all other fiscal years reported include 52 weeks.        (2)       Fiscal
years 2003 through 2007 include Continuing Operations only. The discontinued operations prior to 2003 were not material.        (3)       Fiscal year 2007 amounts include Continuing
Operations only. Fiscal years 1998-2006 amounts include discontinued operations, except as noted.      
  F-1  

(4)       Includes Net Sales at locations open greater than 12 months, including relocated and remodeled stores. Stores become comparable on the Monday following their
365 th  day of operation. Comparable store sales is intended only as supplemental information and is not a substitute for Net Sales or Net Earnings presented in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles.        (5)       Comparable store sales in fiscal years prior to 2002 were reported to the nearest percent.      
  F-2  

QuickLinks    
  TABLE OF CONTENTS   

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995   
  PART I   
 
  Item 1. Business.   
  Item 1A. Risk Factors.   
  Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.   

Item 2. Properties.   

Item 3. Legal Proceedings.   
  Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.   
  Item 4A. Executive Officers of the Company.   

PART II   
 
  Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.   

Item 6. Selected Financial Data.   
  Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.   

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

THE HOME DEPOT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS   

THE HOME DEPOT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS   

THE HOME DEPOT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME   

THE HOME DEPOT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.   
  Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.   
  Item 9B. Other Information.   

PART III   
 
  Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.   
  Item 11. Executive Compensation.   
  Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.   
  Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.   
  Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services.   

PART IV   
 
  Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules.   

SIGNATURES   

INDEX OF ATTACHED EXHIBITS   

<EX-10.47>
 2
 a2183971zex-10_47.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.47

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 10.47            

  April 25,
2007              

  Mr. Craig
A. Menear 
2455 Paces Ferry Road 
Atlanta, GA 30339   

  Dear
Craig:   

          I
am pleased to confirm The Home Depot, Inc.'s ("Home Depot" or the "Company") offer and your acceptance of a promotion to Executive Vice President Merchandising,
effective April 30, 2007, reporting directly to me. Your new base annual salary will be $625,000, payable in equal bi-weekly installments. Your next salary review will be held in
April of 2008.   

          In
addition to your base salary, you will continue to participate in the Management Incentive Program (MIP) for officers, which provides an incentive target of up to 100% of your based
salary, based upon achieving established goals. The incentive, if any, will be prorated based on the number of full months in your previous and new position as well as respective bonus targets for
each position. You will also continue to participate in the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) in accordance with its terms, which provides an incentive target of 75% of your base
salary. To be eligible for payment of any MIP or LTIP incentive, you must be employed on the day on which the incentive is paid.   

At
the next meeting of the Leadership Development and Compensation Committee of The Home Depot, Inc. Board of Directors following the effective date of your promotion, you will
receive a grant under the 2005 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan of the greatest number of whole shares of restricted Home Depot common stock resulting from dividing $125,000 by the closing stock price on
the grant date with five year cliff vesting. Once these provisions lapse, the shares will be yours, free and clear of
restrictions, subject to the applicable provisions of the plan and award document. You will also receive a grant of nonqualified stock options under the 2005 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan equal to the
greatest number of whole shares of the Company's common stock resulting from dividing $125,000 by the product of the closing stock price on the grant date and 27.25%, with an exercise price equal to
the closing stock price on the grant date. Twenty-five percent of the stock options will become exercisable on the second, third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the grant date.
Expiration of all stock options will be the earlier of ten years from the grant date or termination of employment, or any earlier time provided by your award document.   

          In
addition to the standard benefits package for salaried associates, as an officer of the Company, you will continue to receive a death benefit only insurance policy and will continue
to be eligible for participation in the Company's executive life insurance and leased car programs. You are also eligible to continue participation in the Supplemental Executive Choice Program, which
provides you with an annual supplemental benefit allowance. Under this program you will receive an annual supplemental benefit allowance of $35,000. You can use this annual allowance to purchase
additional disability or life insurance benefits, personal excess liability insurance, or you can use it to reimburse yourself for financial services or health care expenses not covered under our
standard health plans.   

          You
agree that you shall not, without the prior express written consent of the Executive Vice President Human Resources of the Company, engage in or have any financial or
other interests in, or render any service in any capacity to any competitor or supplier of the Company or its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, or related entities during the course of your
employment with the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, you shall not be restricted from owning securities of corporations listed on a national securities exchange or regularly traded by national
securities dealers, provided that such investment does not exceed 1% of the market value of the outstanding securities of such corporation.   

          In
the event your employment with Home Depot is terminated for any reason, you agree not to disclose any proprietary or confidential information of Home Depot, its parents, subsidiaries,
affiliates or related entities to any future employer or third party or to take any such information, regardless of whether the information is in printed, written, or electronic form.   

By
accepting this offer you acknowledge that you will be exposed to Company materials which are proprietary and confidential in nature and/or which constitute trade secrets, and,
further, that you will receive training in the Company's various merchandising, operations, financial, and/or other business
processes. You further acknowledge that such proprietary and confidential information, including trade secrets and other business processes, are utilized by the Company throughout the entire United
States and in other locations in which it conducts business. Consequently, you agree that you will not, for a period of twenty-four (24) months subsequent to your termination from
the Company, regardless of the reason for the termination, enter into or maintain an employment or contractual relationship, either directly or indirectly, to provide executive or managerial services
in the same or similar manner as you did for the Company to any company or entity engaged in any way in a business that competes with Home Depot, its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates or related
entities (collectively referred to as the "Company"), in the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico, Mexico, China, or any other location in which the Company conducts business prior to your termination
date, without the prior written consent of the Executive Vice President Human Resources of the Company. Businesses that compete with the Company specifically include, but are not limited
to, the following entities and each of their subsidiaries, affiliates, assigns, or successors in interest: Lowe's Companies, Inc. (including, but not limited to, Eagle Hardware and Garden);
Sears Holding Corp. (including, but not limited to, Orchard Supply and Hardware Company); RONA Inc.; B  OBI; Homemart; Orient Home; Menard, Inc.; Ace Hardware; True Value Company; and
Wal-Mart.   

          You
agree that you will not, for a period of thirty-six (36) months subsequent to your termination from Home Depot, regardless of the reason for the termination,
directly or indirectly solicit or encourage any person who is an employee of the Company to terminate his or her relationship with the Company, or refer any such employee to anyone, without prior
written approval from the Executive Vice President Human Resources of the Company.   

This
letter should not be construed, nor is it intended to be a contract of employment for a specified period of time, and the Company reserves the right to terminate this agreement with
or without cause at any time. This letter supersedes any prior employment agreement or understandings, written or oral between you and the Company and contains the entire understanding of the Company
and you with respect to the subject matter hereof.   

          As
a condition to your promotion, you must take and pass a drug test and pass the background check. A positive test result or failure to pass the background check will result in the
termination of your employment. Drug testing must be done within 48 hours from receipt of this letter. Enclosed is information regarding your drug test.   

This
letter shall be construed, interpreted and applied in accordance with the law of the State of Delaware, without giving effect to the choice of law provisions thereof. You agree to
irrevocably submit any dispute arising out of or relating to this letter to the exclusive concurrent jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located in Delaware. You also irrevocably waive, to
the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection you may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any such dispute brought in such court or any defense of inconvenient forum for
the maintenance of such dispute, and you agree to accept service of legal process from the courts of Delaware.   

  2  

We
are excited about the opportunities that your leadership will bring to this role. Enclosed are duplicate originals of this letter. Please countersign one original and return it to us.
The other original is for you.   

Sincerely,  

/s/ Frank Blake    Frank Blake 
Chairman   Chief Executive Officer  

pc:    Tim
Crow 
Tim Hourigan    

I
accept this promotion to Executive Vice President Merchandising   

3  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 10.47   

</EX-10.47>

<EX-10.48>
 3
 a2183971zex-10_48.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.48

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 10.48            

February 15,
1996   

  Ms. Annette
M. Verschuren 
71 Front Street East, Suite 615 
Toronto, Ontario M5E1T9   

  Dear
Annette:   

          Home
Depot Canada, a Canadian Partnership, ("the Company") is please to submit you the following offer:   

          The
Company agrees to employ you commencing on March 11, 1996, in the position of President The Home Depot Canada, reporting directly to me. Your base annual salary,
during the first year of your employment, shall be $220,000 (CD$) payable in equal bi-weekly instalments. Your first salary review will be held during April of 1997. Salary reviews will be
held annually thereafter.   

          In
addition to your base salary, you will participate in the incentive plans of the Company applicable to executives at your level. You are eligible to participate in the "Home Office
Management Bonus Program", which provides a bonus of up to 50% of your base salary, half of which (25%) is based on the annual attainment of planned sales and return on assets for the Canadian
operations, one quarter of which (12.5%) is based on the annual attainment of planned sales and return on assets for The Home Depot, Inc. and the last quarter (12.5%) is based on a subjective
evaluation of your performance. For 1996 only, we will guarantee the discretionary portion (12.5%).   

At
the next meeting of The Home Depot, Inc. Stock Option Committee following the commencement of your employment, you will receive a grant of 50,000 non-qualified
stock options to purchase shares, such options are exercisable in accordance with the 1991 Omnibus Stock Options Plan, a copy of which is enclosed for your information. It has been our practice to
grant non-qualified stock options with 25% of the total number of shares subject to a grant becoming exercisable on the second, third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the grant date.
Expiration of all stock options will be the earlier of 10 years from the grant date or termination of employment.   

          In
addition to the above stock option grants, you will be eligible to participate in The Home Depot Employee Stock Purchase Plan. This plan affords you the opportunity to purchase Home
Depot stock at a 15% discount through payroll deductions. See the enclosed brochure for a detailed explanation of the plan.   

          The
Home Depot offers an extensive benefits program for our associates and their dependents. The insurance coverages begin when you start to work for the Company. After one year of
service, you are also eligible to participate in The Home Depot (Canada) Retirement Plan. For full details on your various benefits, you should review our benefits summary which is enclosed. In
addition to the standard package for associates, as an officer of the Company you will receive an additional $250,000 (US$) of death benefit only life insurance. Also, you will be included in the
Executive Medical Reimbursement Bonus Plan. Under this plan you will receive 100% reimbursement for eligible charges not covered under the standard medical and dental plans. The annual maximum of this
plan is $10,000 (US$).   

You
agree that you shall not, without the prior express written consent of an executive officer of the Company, engage in or have any financial or other interest in, or render any
service in any capacity to any competitor or supplier of the Company, it being understood that you shall not be restricted from owning securities of corporations listed on a national securities
exchange or regularly traded by national securities dealers, provided that such investment does not exceed 1% of the market value of the outstanding securities of such corporation. The provisions of
this paragraph shall apply to you and your immediate family. In addition, you have stated that you have not agreed to or are subject to any covenant not to compete with any prior employer.   

          You
agree not to disclose, either during the period of your employment with Home Depot or, anytime thereafter, any secret or confidential information of which you may become aware in the
course of your employment, relating to Home Depot. This paragraph shall survive the termination of this Agreement and your employment hereunder.   

This
agreement and your employment may be terminated at any time for cause. Upon termination for cause, Home Depot shall have no further obligations to you. Your employment may be
terminated at any time without cause by Home Depot providing you pay in lieu of notice of six months plus one month's pay for each year of service, with a cap of one year's pay. You agree and
understand that if Home Depot terminated your employment without cause, you shall have no entitlement other than the payment set out above.   

          If
any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of such provision shall not affect the enforceability of the remaining provisions of
this Agreement. This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the Province of Ontario.   

If
you accept this offer of employment and the terms and conditions described above, please sign the form of acknowledgement below and return it to me on or before February 26,
1996.   

          We
are pleased to welcome you to The Home Depot family.   

Yours very truly,  

/s/ Larry Mercer    Larry Mercer 
Executive Vice President  

pc:    Arthur
Blank 
Steve Messana 
Irv Becker    

          I
have been give a copy of this letter and brochures and benefit plans referenced herein. I have read and understood them and hereby accept the terms and conditions of employment and
agree that they are fair and reasonable. I have been offered an opportunity to seek independent legal advise and have done so or have not done so of my own volition. I acknowledge that this
constitutes my entire agreement with Home Depot.   

2  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 10.48   

</EX-10.48>

<EX-10.49>
 4
 a2183971zex-10_49.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.49

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 10.49            

HOME DEPOT OF CANADA INC.   NON-COMPETITION AGREEMENT            

          This Non-Competition Agreement (the "Agreement") is entered into as of the 10th day of May 2006, by and between Home Depot of
Canada Inc., a Canadian corporation (the "Company") and ANNETTE M. VERSCHUREN ("Executive").   

    W I T N E S S E T H:      

             WHEREAS   , the Company desires to provide deferred shares and enhanced severance terms (individually and
collectively referred to as "enhancements") to Executive set forth herein; and   

             WHEREAS   , in consideration for such enhancements, Executive agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions as set forth in this Agreement;
and   

             WHEREAS    the Executive continues to be employed by the Company in Canada, has previously worked for Home Depot U.S.A., Inc. in the
United States of America, and has comprehensive knowledge of Home Depot's operations throughout North America;   

             WHEREAS   , to further the interests of the Company and Executive, the parties hereto have set forth the terms of such benefits and
conditions in writing in the Agreement;   

             NOW, THEREFORE   , for and in consideration of the enhancements and mutual promises herein contained, and for other good and valuable
consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:   

1.            Salary Continuation Payments.          

(a)   In
the event Executive's employment with the Company is terminated involuntarily and without cause, Executive will receive as her full entitlement under contract,
statute and common law, twenty-four (24) months of base salary to be paid by installment via salary continuation and, group health, dental and life insurance benefit continuation
for twenty-four (24) months (said salary continuation and benefits hereinafter referred to as "payments"). Short and long term disability benefits will only extend during the
statutory notice period. Payments shall commence effective the first day Executive receives notice of termination and said payments will be subject to applicable taxes and withholdings in accordance
with the Company's normal payroll practices. The end of the salary continuation period will be Executive's last day of employment ("Termination Date"). During the period of salary continuation,
outstanding options will continue to vest and restrictions on outstanding restricted and deferred shares will continue to lapse in accordance with the terms the applicable plans related to such
options and shares. Executive will have ninety (90) days from the Termination Date to exercise any options that are vested as of the Termination Date. Upon receiving notice of termination,
Executive agrees to execute a general release in a form acceptable to the Company's legal counsel.   

(b)   Executive
will not be entitled to receive these payments, and will forfeit all unvested restricted stock, deferred shares, stock options and other equity awards and Long
Term Incentive Program benefits (individually and collectively referred to as "Award Benefits"), in the event Executive voluntarily resigns from the Company but all other provisions of this Agreement
shall remain in effect. In the event of voluntary resignation, the effective date of the resignation shall be deemed the Termination Date for purposes of this Agreement. Executive agrees to provide
one month advance written notice of resignation. Upon receipt of such notice, the Company will have the sole discretion to waive same and Executive's resignation will be deemed to be effective the
date of such waiver with no further obligation owing to Executive by the Company, except as may be required by statute. Executive will be entitled to receive the payments set forth in
Paragraph 1(a) if Executive resigns for "good reason." "Good reason" means a decrease in Executive's base salary without Executive's consent.   

(c)   Unless
otherwise required by statute, Executive will not be entitled to receive these payments, and will forfeit all unvested Award Benefits, in the event Executive is
unable to continue employment due to a death or disability; however, in such an event, Executive may be eligible for disability or death benefits under the Company employee benefit plans or programs
in which Executive then participates, pursuant to the terms and conditions of such plans and programs. In the event of a conflict between this paragraph 1(c) and the terms of plans under which
the Award Benefits are granted, the terms of the applicable plan shall govern.   

          (d)   Executive
will not be entitled to receive these payments, or any other type of payment or benefit, and will forfeit all unvested Award Benefits, if Executive is
terminated "for cause." For purposes of this Agreement the date the Executive is terminated for cause will be deemed the "Termination Date." All other provisions of this Agreement shall remain in
effect. For purposes of this Agreement, "for cause" shall mean:   

(i)    A
Criminal Conviction, or a finding of guilt by a Canadian securities agency, involving theft, moral turpitude or dishonesty;
      (ii)    Conduct
that constitutes willful neglect or willful misconduct with respect to Executive's employment duties which results in material economic harm to the Company or
its affiliates; or
      (iii)    Willful
conduct or neglect that constitutes a material violation of the Company's mutual attraction policy, substance abuse policy, Code of Conduct, or compliance
policies (each as shall be in place from time to time). For purposes of determining whether conduct constitutes willful conduct or willful neglect, no act or omission on Executive's part shall be
considered "willful" unless it is done in bad faith and without reasonable belief that Executive's action or inaction was in the best interests of the Company and its affiliates.    

To
the extent that any Company plan or program has a different definition of "for cause," such definition shall control for purposes of benefits or entitlements under such plan or program.   

2.            Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation.          

(a)   The
Executive agrees that Executive will not, for a period of twenty-four (24) months subsequent to the earlier of either (i) the beginning of
the salary continuation period referenced in Paragraph 1(a), or (ii) the Executive's Termination Date, enter into or maintain an employment, contractual, or other relationship, either
directly or indirectly, to provide executive, managerial, or
operations services in the same or similar manner as Executive did for the Company or for Home Depot U.S.A., Inc. ("Home Depot") to any company or entity engaged in any way in a business that
competes directly or indirectly with the Company, its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates or related entities, in the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico, Mexico, China or any other location in which the
Company currently conducts business or may conduct business prior to the end of the above-referenced twenty-four month period, without the prior written consent of the Executive Vice
President, Human Resources of the Company. Businesses that compete with the Company and/or Home Depot specifically include, but are not limited to, the following entities and each of their
subsidiaries, affiliates, assigns, franchisees, or successors in interest: Lowe's Companies, Inc. (including, but not limited to, Eagle Hardware and Garden); Sears Holding Corp. (including, but
not limited to, Orchard Supply and Hardware Company); Wal-Mart; Rona Inc.; Castorama/B  Kent; Canadian Tire; Ace Hardware; True Value Company; and Menard, Inc.   

(b)   In
the event the Executive wishes to enter into any relationship or employment prior to the end of the period referenced in Paragraph 2(a) which would be covered
by the above non-compete provision, Executive agrees to request written permission from the Executive Vice President, Human Resources of Home Depot prior to entering any such relationship
or   

2  

employment.
The Company may approve or not approve of the relationship or employment at its absolute discretion.   

(c)   The
Executive agrees that for a period of thirty-six (36) months subsequent to the earlier of either (i) the beginning of the salary
continuation period referenced in Paragraph 1(a), or (ii) the Executive's Termination Date, she will not directly or indirectly solicit any person who is an employee of the Company (or
Home Depot) to terminate his or her relationship with the Company (or with Home Depot) without prior written approval from the Executive Vice President, Human Resources of Home Depot.   

          (d)   In
the event the Executive breaches the terms of Paragraphs 2 (a), 2(c) or 3 of this Agreement, the Company shall, from the date of such breach, cease payments
and benefit continuation under paragraph 1(a) and will no longer be liable for any salary continuation payments or benefits (including restricted stock, deferred shares and stock option
vesting) which would otherwise have been payable or due under this Agreement and the Executive shall forfeit all unvested Award Benefits. Without limiting the Company's right to its damages in full or
to any other remedy to which it may be entitled, the Executive hereby irrevocably directs the Company to retain any and all of such salary continuation payments and benefits on account of damages for
such breach.   

3.            Confidential Information and Trade Secrets.          

(a)   The
Executive acknowledges that through her employment with the Company and with Home Depot U.S.A., Inc. (referred to collectively as the "Company" for purposes
of this Paragraph 3) she has acquired and had access to the Company's Confidential Information. Executive further acknowledges that she has not published, disclosed or used any of the Company's
Confidential Information except in accordance with her duties for the Company. The Executive agrees that, for a period of three years after the Termination Date, she will hold in confidence all
Confidential Information of the Company and will not disclose, publish or make use of such Confidential Information, unless compelled by law and then only after Notice to the Executive Vice President,
Human Resources of the Company. Executive further agrees to return all documents, disks, or any other item or source containing Confidential Information, or any other Company property, to the Company
on or before the Termination Date. If the Executive has any question regarding what data or information would be considered by the Company to be Confidential Information, the Executive agrees to
contact the Executive Vice President, Human Resources for written clarification. "Confidential Information" shall include any data or information, other than trade secrets, that is valuable to the
Company and not generally known to competitors of the Company or other outsiders, regardless of whether the confidential information is in printed, written, or electronic form, retained in the
Executive's memory, or has been compiled or created by the Executive. This includes, but is not limited to: technical, financial, personnel, staffing, payroll, computer systems, marketing,
advertising, merchandising, operations, strategic planning, product, vendor, customer or store planning data, trade secrets, or other information similar to the foregoing.   

          (b)   The
Executive also acknowledges that through her employment with the Company she has acquired and had access to the Company's Trade Secrets. The Executive further
acknowledges that the Company has made reasonable efforts under the circumstances to maintain the secrecy of its Trade Secrets. Executive agrees to hold in confidence all Trade Secrets of the Company
that came into her knowledge during employment by the Company and shall not disclose, publish, or make use of at any time such Trade Secrets for so long as the information remains a Trade Secret.
"Trade Secret" means information, without regard to form, including, but not limited to, any technical or non-technical data, formula, pattern, compilation, program, device, method,
technique, drawing, process, financial data, financial plans, strategic plans, product plans, or list of actual or potential customers or suppliers which is not commonly known by or available to the
public and   

3  

which
information: (i) derives economic value, actual or potential, from not being generally known to, and not being readily ascertainable by proper means by, other persons who can derive
economic value from its disclosure or use and (ii) is the subject of efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances to maintain its secrecy.   

4.            Miscellaneous.          

(a)       Severability    .    If any term, provision, covenant or restriction contained in the Agreement is held by a court
or a regulatory agency of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions contained in the Agreement shall remain in
full force and effect, and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated.   

          (b)       Controlling Law    .    Executive and the Company agree that, in light of the Executive having been employed in two
different jurisdictions, for purposes of certainty, that the law of Ontario shall govern except with respect to breaches by the Executive of paragraphs 2 or 3 of this Agreement that occur
outside of Canada. In the event of a breach by the Executive of paragraphs 2 or 3 of this Agreement that occurs outside of Canada, it is the parties desire that this Agreement shall be
construed, interpreted and applied in accordance with the law of the State of Delaware, without giving effect to the choice of law provisions thereof. Executive and the Company hereby irrevocably
submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of Delaware. Executive and the Company also both irrevocably waive, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection either may now
or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any such dispute brought in such court or any defense of inconvenient forum for the maintenance of such dispute, and both parties agree to accept service of
legal process in Delaware. Despite the foregoing, Executive acknowledges that the Company may suffer loss and damage which cannot be adequately determined or compensated by monetary compensation as a
result of any breach by Executive of any provision of this Agreement and, accordingly, Executive agrees that any breach or threatened or anticipated breach of Section 2 or Section 3 of
this Agreement outside of Canada may still be the proper subject of an injunction in a Canadian court and if such injunctive relief is sought by the Company, Executive shall consent to the
jurisdiction of the Canadian courts. Furthermore, Executive agrees that the Company may seek enforcement in a Canadian court of any United States judgement obtained pursuant to this Agreement and
Executive agrees not to raise any objection to the Company seeking enforcement of said judgement in a Canadian court   

          (c)       Construction    .    The Agreement contains the entire understanding between the parties and supersedes any prior
understanding and agreements between them representing the subject matter hereof. This Agreement supplements the Offer Letter to Executive dated February 15, 1996 ("Offer Letter") and the
Memorandum to Executive dated April 7, 2003 ("Memorandum"). To the extent there is any inconsistency between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of the Offer Letter or Memorandum, the
terms of this Agreement shall control. There are no representations, agreements, arrangements or understandings, oral or written, between and among the parties hereto relating to the subject matter
hereof which are not fully expressed herein. Any modifications to this Agreement must be in writing and signed by the Executive and an authorized executive of the Company.   

          (d)       Canadian Statutory Rights    .    Solely as it relates to Executive's employment in Canada, this Agreement is
intended to be in compliance with the requirements of Ontario Employment Standards Act, 2000. Should the employment standards legislation in Ontario provide a greater entitlement than outlined in this
Agreement, then such greater entitlement shall prevail over the above and will be applied under this Agreement and will constitute Executive's full entitlement under contract and common law.   

          (e)       Headings    .    Section and other headings contained in the Agreement are for reference purposes only and are in
no way intended to describe, interpret, define or limit the scope, extent or intent of the Agreement or any provision hereof.   

[SIGNATURES
APPEAR ON FOLLOWING PAGE]   

  4  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF   , the parties hereto have executed the Agreement as of day and year first set forth above.   

HOME DEPOT OF CANADA INC.  

/s/ Robert L. Nardelli   

By:  
     
  Robert L. Nardelli 
President and CEO  

EXECUTIVE:  

/s/ Annette M. Verschuren   

By:  
     
  Annette M. Verschuren  

5  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 10.49   
 
  HOME DEPOT OF CANADA INC. NON-COMPETITION AGREEMENT   

</EX-10.49>

<EX-10.50>
 5
 a2183971zex-10_50.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.50

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 10.50            

SEPARATION AGREEMENT   RELEASE             

          This is an Agreement between Home Depot U.S.A., Inc. (hereinafter "Home Depot" or the "Company") and Roger Adams (the "Executive").   

WHEREAS,    the Company and the Executive intend the terms and conditions of this Agreement to govern all issues related to the Executive's
employment and termination from the Company and is intended to supersede and replace the provisions set forth in any of his employment letters; and   

             WHEREAS,    the Executive acknowledges that he has been given a reasonable period of time, up to and including twenty-one
(21) days, to consider the terms of this Agreement; and,   

             WHEREAS,    the Company advises the Executive to consult with a lawyer before signing this Agreement; and,   

WHEREAS,    the Executive acknowledges that the consideration provided him under this Agreement is sufficient to support the releases
provided by him under this Agreement; and,   

             WHEREAS,    the Executive represents that he has not filed any charges, claims or lawsuits against the Company involving any aspect of his
employment which have not been terminated as of the date of this Agreement; and,   

             WHEREAS,    the Executive understands that the Company regards the representations by him as material and that the Company is relying on
these representations in entering into this Agreement,   

             NOW, THEREFORE   , the Company and the Executive agree as follows:   

1.       Employment Status and Termination Date.       Executive's last day of employment shall be October 31, 2007
("Termination Date").   

          2.       Separation Payments.       Executive shall receive a payment of $225,000, subject to applicable tax withholding, on
May 1, 2008. Executive shall receive eighteen (18) monthly separation payments of $37,500, subject to applicable tax withholding, from May 1, 2008 through November 1, 2009.   

          3.       Bonuses.       Executive will not be eligible to participate in the Management Incentive Plan ("MIP") or Long Term
Incentive Program ("LTIP") for Fiscal Year 2007 or beyond, and Executive will not be eligible to receive payments under any of the current LTIP cycles. Executive will not be eligible for bonus
payments of any other kind.   

          4.       Benefits.       Executive's benefits (including the executive life insurance and leased car programs) shall end on
the Termination Date, pursuant to the terms of such plans and applicable law. Executive shall receive a monthly payment, in an amount to be determined by the Company, as a partial off-set
for his health care costs. Executive shall receive these monthly payments from November 1, 2007 through the earlier of either (a) November 1, 2009, or (b) Employee's
acceptance of other employment with health care eligibility. The Executive will be eligible to continue to participate in the Supplemental Executive Choice Program, except for the retiree medical
plan, for calendar year 2007.   

          5.       Stock Options/Restricted Stock.         

(a)    All
of Executive's stock options that vest prior to the Termination Date must be exercised within 90 days of the Termination Date. Executive's 32,954 outstanding,
non-vested stock options that were scheduled to vest after the Termination Date but before November 1, 2010 will vest on the Termination Date. The 32,954 options may not be
exercised until the following dates: 6,250 options may be exercised as of February 24, 2008; 6,250 options may be exercised as of February 24, 2009; 7,102 options may be exercised as of
March 21, 2009; 6,250 options may be exercised as of February 24, 2010; and 7,102 options may be exercised as of March 21, 2010. All    

32,954
options must be exercised by January 29, 2011, subject to forfeiture for any earlier breach as provided in Paragraph 9. All other non-vested stock options shall be
forfeited on the Termination Date   

(b)    The
restrictions on 40,250 outstanding shares of restricted stock, originally scheduled to lapse after October 31, 2007, will lapse instead on the Termination Date. All other
shares of restricted stock shall be forfeited on the Termination Date. All 40,250 shares are subject to forfeiture for any earlier breach as provided in Paragraph 9.
      (c)    The
Executive and Company acknowledge that the shares referenced in Paragraph 5(b) shall constitute taxable income to Executive at the time of vesting on the Termination Date;
and that the vested stock options referenced in Paragraph 5(a) shall be taxable to Executive when such options are exercised. Accordingly, Executive acknowledges his obligations to pay all
related applicable federal, state and local income and employment taxes, and that the Company is required to withhold applicable taxes with respect to these shares and vested options. Accordingly,
Executive hereby authorizes the Company to withhold a sufficient number of shares necessary to satisfy said withholding obligations.
      (d)    Executive
shall not be eligible to receive any other equity-based awards.
      (e)    Executive
is solely responsible for ensuring that his equity awards are properly credited, exercised and handled as provided by the terms of the awards as modified by this Agreement.
Executive acknowledges that he may not rely on the Merrill Lynch website in determining the exercise or expiration dates of his equity awards. Executive should direct any inquiries to the Atlanta
Branch of Merrill Lynch at 404-264-7274; however, the Company is not responsible for any incorrect information Executive might receive from Merrill Lynch.    

6.       Release of Claims.       The Executive and his heirs, assigns, and agents release, waive and discharge the Company,
its past and present parents, subsidiaries, affiliates and related entities, and their respective past and present predecessors, successors, assigns, representatives, directors, officers, employees,
and agents from each and every claim, action or right of any sort, known or unknown, arising on or before the Effective Date.   

(a)    The
foregoing release includes, but is not limited to, any claim of discrimination on the basis of race, sex, religion, sexual orientation, national origin, disability, age, or
citizenship status; any other claim based on any local, state, or federal prohibition, including but not limited to claims under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Age
Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, or the Americans With Disabilities Act; any claim arising out of or related to any alleged express or implied employment contract, any other
alleged contract affecting terms and conditions of employment, or an alleged covenant of good faith and fair dealing; or any claim for severance pay, bonus, salary, sick leave, stocks, attorneys'
fees, holiday pay, vacation pay, life insurance, health or medical insurance or any other fringe benefit, workers' compensation or disability.
      (b)    The
Executive represents that he understands the foregoing release, that rights and claims under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, are among the rights and
claims against the Company he is releasing, and that he understands that he is not presently releasing any future rights or claims that might arise after the Effective Date.
      (c)    The
Executive further agrees never to sue the Company or its past and present directors, officers, employees, parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, related entities, and    

2  

agents
or cause the Company or its past and present directors, officers, employees, parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, related entities, and agents to be sued regarding any matter within the scope of
the above release. If the Executive violates this Paragraph, the Company may recover all damages as allowed by law, including all costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred in
defending against the suit.   

7.       Confidential Information and Trade Secrets.         

(a)    The
Executive acknowledges that through his employment with the Company he has acquired and had access to Confidential Information of the Company, its parents, subsidiaries,
affiliates or related entities. Executive further acknowledges that he has not published, disclosed or used any of this Confidential Information except in accordance with his duties for the Company.
The Executive agrees that, for a period of three years after the Effective Date, he will hold in confidence all Confidential Information of the Company, its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates or
related entities and will not disclose, publish or make use of such Confidential Information, unless compelled by law and then only after Notice to the Executive Vice President, Human Resources of the
Company. Executive further agrees to return all documents, disks, or any other item or source containing Confidential Information, or any other property of the Company, its parents, subsidiaries,
affiliates or related entities, to the Company on or before the Effective Date. If the Executive has any question regarding what data or information would be considered by the Company to be
Confidential Information, the Executive agrees to contact the Executive Vice President, Human Resources for written clarification. "Confidential Information" shall include any data or information,
other than trade secrets, that is valuable to the Company, its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates or related entities and not generally known to competitors or outsiders, regardless of whether the
confidential information is in printed, written, or electronic form, retained in the Executive's memory, or has been compiled or created by the Executive. This includes, but is not limited to:
marketing, advertising, technical, financial, personnel, staffing, payroll, computer systems, merchandising, strategic planning, information technology, product, vendor, supplier, customer or store
planning data, construction, trade secrets, or other information similar to the foregoing.
      (b)    The
Executive also acknowledges that through his employment with the Company he has acquired and had access to Trade Secrets of the Company, its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates or
related entities. The Executive further acknowledges that the Company, its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates or related entities have made reasonable efforts under the circumstances to maintain the
secrecy of their Trade Secrets. Executive agrees to hold in confidence all Trade Secrets of the Company, its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates or related entities that came into his knowledge during
employment by the Company and shall not disclose, publish, or make use of at any time such Trade Secrets for so long as the information remains a Trade Secret. "Trade Secret" means information,
without regard to form, including, but not limited to, any technical or non-technical data, formula, pattern, compilation, program, device, method, technique, drawing, process, financial
data, financial plans, strategic plans, product plans, or list of actual or potential customers or suppliers which is not commonly known by or available to the public and which information:
(i) derives economic value, actual or potential, from not being generally known to, and not being readily ascertainable by proper means by, other persons who can derive economic value from its
disclosure or use and (ii) is the subject of efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances to maintain its secrecy.    

3  

(c)    The
Executive further acknowledges that his breach of any of the covenants in this Paragraph 7 would result in immediate and irreparable harm to the Company, its parents,
subsidiaries, affiliates or related entities that cannot be adequately or reasonably compensated at law. Accordingly, the Executive agrees that the Company shall be entitled, if any such breach shall
occur or be threatened or attempted, if it so elects, to seek from a court a temporary, preliminary, and permanent injunction, without being required to post a bond, enjoining and restraining such
breach or threatened or attempted breach by the Executive.    

8.       Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation.         

(a)    The
Executive acknowledges that during his employment he provided services to the Company, its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, and related entities in all locations that these
entities conduct business. These services necessarily required the Company to disclose the Confidential Information and Trade Secrets of these entities to the Executive. The Executive further
acknowledges that his position allowed him to develop a personal relationship with certain customers, suppliers and vendors of the Company, its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, and related entities,
and to acquire knowledge of the affairs and requirements of these customers, suppliers and vendors. The customers, suppliers and vendors with whom the Employee has had business dealings with on behalf
of these entities are located throughout the world. As a result, the Executive agrees that he will not, prior to November 1, 2010, enter into or maintain an employment, contractual, or other
relationship, either directly or indirectly, to provide marketing, advertising, executive, or managerial services in the same or similar manner as he did for the Company to any company or entity
engaged in any way in a business that competes directly or indirectly with the Company, its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates or related entities, in the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico, Mexico, or
China prior to November 1, 2010, without the prior written consent of the Executive Vice President, Human Resources of the Company. Businesses that compete with the Company specifically
include, but are not limited to, the following entities and each of their subsidiaries, affiliates, assigns, or successors in interest: Lowe's Companies, Inc. (including, but not limited to,
Eagle Hardware and Garden); Sears Holding Corp. (including, but not limited to, Orchard Supply and Hardware Company); Wal-Mart; RONA Inc.; B  Ace Hardware; True Value Company; and
Menard, Inc.
      (b)    In
the event the Executive wishes to enter into any relationship or employment prior to November 1, 2010 which would be covered by the above non-compete provision,
Executive agrees to request written permission from the Executive Vice President, Human Resources of the Company prior to entering any such relationship or employment. The Company may approve or not
approve of the relationship or employment at its absolute discretion.
      (c)    The
Executive agrees that prior to November 1, 2010, he will not directly or indirectly, on behalf of himself or any other entity or person, solicit or encourage any person who
is an employee of the Company, its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates or related entities to terminate his or her relationship with the Company, its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates or related
entities, or to refer any such employee to anyone, without prior written approval from the Executive Vice President, Human Resources of the Company.
      (d)    The
Executive acknowledges that the covenants in this Paragraph 8: (i) are necessary for the protection of the legitimate business interests of the Company, its parents,    

4  

subsidiaries,
affiliates, and related entities; (ii) are reasonable in terms of time, geographic scope, and activities restricted; (iii) are designed to prevent unfair competition and
not to stifle the inherent skill and experience of the Executive; (iv) will not interfere with the Executive's ability to earn a livelihood; and (v) do not confer a benefit upon the
Company disproportionate to the detriment to the Executive. The Executive acknowledges that if he were to breach any of the covenants in this Paragraph 8, such breach would result in immediate
and irreparable harm to the Company that cannot be adequately or reasonably compensated at law. Accordingly, the Executive agrees that the Company shall be entitled, if any such breach shall occur or
be threatened or attempted, if it so elects, to a seek from a court a temporary, preliminary, and permanent injunction, without being required to post a bond, enjoining and restraining such breach or
threatened or attempted breach by the Executive.   

9.       Breach by Executive.       The Company's obligations to the Executive under this Agreement are contingent on
Executive's performance of his obligations under this Agreement. Any breach by Executive of this Agreement will result in the immediate cancellation of all Executive's outstanding stock options and
restricted stock, as well as entitle the Company to all its other remedies allowed in law or equity, including but not limited to the return of any payments that it made to Executive under this
Agreement and the return to the Company of any proceeds Executive received from stock options or restricted stock exercised after November 1, 2007, to the extent permitted under federal, state
and local law.   

          10.       Executive Availability.       Executive agrees to make himself reasonably available to the Company to respond to
requests by the Company for information pertaining to or relating to the Company and/or the Company's affiliates, subsidiaries, agents, officers, directors or employees which may be within the
knowledge of the Executive. Executive agrees to cooperate fully with the Company in connection with any and all existing or future litigation, charges, or investigations brought by or against the
Company or any of its past or present affiliates, agents, officers, directors or employees, whether administrative, civil or criminal in nature, in which and to the extent the Company deems the
Executive's cooperation necessary. In conjunction with Executive's commitments under this paragraph, the Company will reimburse the Executive for reasonable out-of-pocket
expenses incurred as a result of such cooperation.   

          11.       Non-Disparagement.       The Executive agrees that he will not make or cause to be made any statements
that disparage, are inimical to, or damage the reputation of the Company, its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, or related entities, and their respective past and present predecessors, successors,
assigns, representatives, directors, officers, employees, and agents to anyone, including but not limited to the media, internet blogs, public interest groups and publishing companies.   

12.       Insider Trading.       The Executive acknowledges that until January 1, 2008, he remains subject to the
restrictions of the Company's Securities Laws Policy applicable to Directors, Officers, and Designated Associates, which permits trading only during designated window periods. After January 1,
2008, the Securities Law Policy will no longer apply to the Executive. However, the Executive acknowledges that through his employment with the Company he may have learned material,
non-public information regarding the Company. The federal securities laws prohibit trading by persons while aware of material, non-public information. The Executive should seek
advice of his legal counsel prior to conducting any transactions in the Company's stock if the Executive thinks he may possess such information.   

5  

13.       Future Employment.       The Executive hereby understands and agrees that he will not be re-employed
by the Company in the future and that Executive will never knowingly apply to the Company, its subsidiaries, affiliates, parents or divisions for any job or position in the future.   

14.       Severability of Provisions.       In the event that any provision in this Agreement is determined to be legally
invalid or unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction, and cannot be modified to be enforceable, the affected provision shall be stricken from the Agreement, and the remaining terms of the
Agreement and its enforceability shall remain unaffected.   

          15.       Right to Revoke this Agreement.       The Executive may revoke this Agreement in writing within seven
(7) days of signing it by sending written notice of revocation to the Executive Vice President, Human Resources of the Company. The Agreement will not take effect until the Effective Date. If
the Executive revokes this Agreement, all of its provisions shall be void and unenforceable.   

          16.       Effective Date.       The Effective Date shall be the day after the end of the revocation period described in
Paragraph 15.   

          17.       Confidentiality.       The Executive shall keep strictly confidential all the terms and conditions, including
amounts, in this Agreement and shall not disclose them to any person other than the Executive's
spouse and the Executive's legal or financial advisor, unless compelled by law to do so. If a person not a party to this Agreement requests or demands, by subpoena or otherwise, that the Executive
disclose or produce this Agreement or any terms or conditions thereof, the Executive shall immediately provide written notice to the Executive Vice President, Human Resources of the Company and shall
give the Company an opportunity to respond to such notice before taking any action or making any decision in connection with such request or subpoena.   

          18.       Non-Assignment   .    The Executive represents and warrants that as of the date of this Agreement he
has not assigned or transferred, or purported to assign or transfer, to any person, firm, corporation, association or entity whatsoever any released claim. Executive hereby agrees to indemnify and
hold the Company harmless against, without any limitation, any and all rights, claims, warranties, demands, debts, obligations, liabilities, costs, court costs, expenses, including attorneys' fees,
causes of action or judgments based on or arising out of any such assignment or transfer.   

          19.       Entire Agreement.       This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding between the parties. The parties have
not relied on any oral statements that are not included in this Agreement. Any modifications to this Agreement must be in writing and signed by the Executive Vice President, Human Resources of the
Company.   

          20.       Governing Law   .    This Agreement shall be construed, interpreted and applied in accordance with the law of the
State of Delaware, without giving effect to the choice of law provisions thereof. Executive and the Company hereby irrevocably submit any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement to the
exclusive concurrent jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located in Delaware. Executive and the Company also both irrevocably waive, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any
objection either may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any such dispute brought in such court or any defense of inconvenient forum for the maintenance of such dispute, and both parties
agree to accept service of legal process from the courts of Delaware.   

6  

The Executive understands and acknowledges the significance and consequences of this Agreement, that the consideration provided herein is fair and adequate, and
represents that the terms of this Agreement are fully understood and voluntarily accepted.   

7  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 10.50   
 
  SEPARATION AGREEMENT   RELEASE   

</EX-10.50>

<EX-12>
 6
 a2183971zex-12.htm
 EXHIBIT 12

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 12            

THE HOME DEPOT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES   ($ in millions, except ratio data)            

(1)       Fiscal years 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003 refer to the fiscal years ended February 3, 2008, January 28, 2007, January 29, 2006, January 30, 2005 and
February 1, 2004, respectively. Fiscal year 2007 includes 53 weeks. Fiscal years 2003 through 2006 include 52 weeks.
         (2)       For purposes of computing the ratios of earnings to fixed charges, "earnings" consist of earnings from continuing operations before income taxes plus fixed charges,
excluding
capitalized interest. "Fixed charges" consist of interest incurred on indebtedness including capitalized interest, amortization of debt expenses and the portion of rental expense under operating
leases deemed to be the equivalent of interest. The ratios of earnings to fixed charges are calculated as follows:      
   (earnings from continuing operations before income taxes)+(fixed charges)-(capitalized interest)  
(fixed charges)   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 12   
 
  THE HOME DEPOT INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES   

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 7
 a2183971zex-21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 21            

LISTS OF SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT            

NAME OF SUBSIDIARY    
     
   STATE OR JURISDICTION 
OF INCORPORATION    
     
   D/B/A    

Home Depot International, Inc.   
     
  Delaware  
     
  (Not Applicable)  

Home Depot U.S.A., Inc.   
     
  Delaware  
     
  The Home Depot 
EXPO Design Center 
Yardbirds Electric and Plumbing Supply  

HD Development of Maryland, Inc.   
     
  Maryland  
     
  (Not Applicable)  

Certain
subsidiaries were omitted pursuant to Item 601(21)(ii) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act of 1934, as amended.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 21   
 
  LISTS OF SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 8
 a2183971zex-23.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 23            

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm            

  The
Board of Directors 
The Home Depot, Inc.:   

  We
consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (Nos. 033-58807, 333-61733, 333-38946, 333-110423,
333-56722, 333-62316, 333-62318, 333-72016, 333-125331, 333-125332) on Form S-8 and
(Nos. 333-131799, 333-135280) on Form S-3 of The Home Depot, Inc. of our reports dated March 28, 2008, with respect to the consolidated
balance sheets of The Home Depot, Inc. and subsidiaries as of February 3, 2008 and January 28, 2007, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders' equity and
comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the fiscal years in the three-year period ended February 3, 2008, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
as of February 3, 2008, which reports appear in the February 3, 2008 annual report on Form 10-K of The Home Depot, Inc. Our report refers to the Company's
adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48,    Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   , effective January 29,
2007, the beginning of the fiscal year ended February 3, 2008 and Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108,    Considering the Effects of
Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in the Current Year Financial Statements   , effective January 30, 2006, the beginning of the fiscal year ended
January 28, 2007.   

  /s/
KPMG LLP   

  Atlanta,
Georgia 
April 2, 2008   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 23   
 
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 9
 a2183971zex-31_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.1            

CERTIFICATION            

  I,
Francis S. Blake, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Home Depot, Inc.;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
for the registrant and have:

a)    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
      b)    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
      c)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      d)    Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and
     
   5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and
the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a)    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      b)    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.    

Date:
March 28, 2008   

/s/ Francis S. Blake    Francis S. Blake 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.1   
 
  CERTIFICATION   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 10
 a2183971zex-31_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.2            

CERTIFICATION            

  I,
Carol B. Tom , certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Home Depot, Inc.;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
for the registrant and have:

a)    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
      b)    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
      c)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      d)    Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and
     
   5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and
the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a)    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      b)    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.    

Date:
March 28, 2008   

/s/ Carol B. Tom     Carol B. Tom  
Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President Corporate Services  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.2   
 
  CERTIFICATION   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 11
 a2183971zex-32_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.1            

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 *            

  In
connection with the Annual Report of The Home Depot, Inc. (the "Company") on Form 10-K ("Form 10-K") for the period ended February 3, 2008, as
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof, I, Francis S. Blake, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge:   

(1)    The
Form 10-K fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/ Francis S. Blake    Francis S. Blake 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
March 28, 2008  

*    A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to The Home Depot, Inc. and will be retained by The Home Depot, Inc. and
furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.    

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.1   
 
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 12
 a2183971zex-32_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.2            

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 *            

  In
connection with the Annual Report of The Home Depot, Inc. (the "Company") on Form 10-K ("Form 10-K") for the period ended February 3, 2008, as
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof, I, Carol B. Tom , Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President Corporate Services of the
Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge:   

(1)    The
Form 10-K fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/ Carol B. Tom     Carol B. Tom  
Chief Financial Officer and 
Executive Vice President Corporate Services 
March 28, 2008  

*    A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to The Home Depot, Inc. and will be retained by The Home Depot, Inc. and
furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.    

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.2   
 
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-99.1>
 13
 a2183971zex-99_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 99.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 99.1            

BOB DERODES, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF INFORMATION 
OFFICER, TO LEAVE THE HOME DEPOT AT YEAR'S END     

             ATLANTA, April 3, 2008    The Home Depot , the world's largest home improvement
retailer, today announced that Bob DeRodes, executive vice president and chief information officer, has decided to leave the Company at the end of the year.   

DeRodes
will continue to be responsible for all of the organization's Information Technology until his departure. The Company will begin an immediate search for his replacement, and
DeRodes will assist with this process as well as the eventual transition of responsibilities to his successor.   

          "Bob
has led a significant IT transformation at The Home Depot, and we thank him for his contributions to our Company. We are pleased he will remain with us through the transition to
ensure that our business technology transformation initiatives continue to run smoothly," said Frank Blake, The Home Depot's chairman and CEO.   

DeRodes,
who joined The Home Depot in February 2002, developed and built the Company's current IT infrastructure, which has enabled the introduction of numerous initiatives including
self-checkout, continual point of sale upgrades and BEAR, the Company's back-end automated receiving system. In addition, under DeRodes' leadership the Company successfully
implemented SAP Finance, the largest implementation of its kind, and seamlessly opened the Austin Technology Center in 2005, which provided needed backup systems and security for the Company's data
management infrastructure.   

          The
Home Depot  is the world's largest home improvement specialty retailer, with 2,255 retail stores in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin
Islands, Guam, 10 Canadian provinces, Mexico and China. In fiscal 2007, The Home Depot had sales of $77.3 billion and earnings from continuing operations of $4.2 billion. The Company
employs more than 300,000 associates. The Home Depot's stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: HD) and is included in the Dow Jones industrial average and Standard   Poor's 500
index.   

  ###

For more information, contact    :  

Financial Community   
     
   News Media   

Diane Dayhoff  
     
  Ron DeFeo  

Sr. Vice President of Investor Relations  
     
  Director, Corporate Communications  

770-384-2666  
     
  770-384-3179  

diane_dayhoff@homedepot.com  
     
  ron_defeo@homedepot.com  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 99.1   

</EX-99.1>

