<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20140327_10-K_edgar_data_354950_0000354950-14-000008_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>10150336</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>227256</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>2483518</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2664024</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>3102240</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>1499218</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>53</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000354950-14-000008.hdr.sgml : 20140327
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20140327161417
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000354950-14-000008
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		16
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20140202
FILED AS OF DATE:		20140327
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20140327

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			HOME DEPOT INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000354950
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS [5211]
		IRS NUMBER:				953261426
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0129

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08207
		FILM NUMBER:		14721781

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2455 PACES FERRY ROAD
		CITY:			ATLANTA
		STATE:			GA
		ZIP:			30339-4024
		BUSINESS PHONE:		770-433-8211

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2455 PACES FERRY ROAD
		CITY:			ATLANTA
		STATE:			GA
		ZIP:			30339-4024

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000354950-14-000008.txt : 20140327

10-K
 1
 hd-222014x10xk.htm
 10-K

HD-2.2.2014-10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 
  ________________________________________ 
  FORM 10-K 

For the fiscal year ended   February 2, 2014    
  OR 

Commission File Number 1-8207 
  THE HOME DEPOT, INC. 
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
  DELAWARE 
  (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) 
  95-3261426 
  (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 
  2455 PACES FERRY ROAD, N.W., ATLANTA, GEORGIA 30339 
  (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) 
  Registrant s Telephone Number, Including Area Code:   (770) 433-8211 
  SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT: 
                 TITLE OF EACH CLASS 
    NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE 
  ON WHICH REGISTERED 
      Common Stock, $0.05 Par Value Per Share 
    New York Stock Exchange 

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:   None 
  Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes       No     
  Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes       No     
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes       No     
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes       No     
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.     
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): 
                     Large accelerated filer     
    Accelerated filer   o 
    Non-accelerated filer   o 
  (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) 
    Smaller reporting company   o 

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes       No     
  The aggregate market value of the common stock of the Registrant held by non-affiliates of the Registrant on   August 4, 2013   was   $115.0 billion  . 
  The number of shares outstanding of the Registrant s common stock as of   March 10, 2014   was   1,381,350,137   shares. 
  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
  Portions of the Registrant s proxy statement for the   2014   Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K to the extent described herein.  
  
       Table of Contents  

   THE HOME DEPOT, INC. 
  FISCAL YEAR   2013   FORM 10-K 
  TABLE OF CONTENTS 
    
                    PART I  

Item 1. 
     Business  
     1 

Item 1A. 
     Risk Factors  
     7 

Item 1B. 
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
     10 

Item 2. 
     Properties  
     11 

Item 3. 
     Legal Proceedings  
     13 

Item 4. 
     Mine Safety Disclosures     
     13 

PART II  

Item 5. 
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
     14 

Item 6. 
     Selected Financial Data  
     16 

Item 7. 
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
     17 

Item 7A. 
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
     26 

Item 8. 
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
     27 

Item 9. 
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
     51 

Item 9A. 
     Controls and Procedures  
     51 

Item 9B. 
     Other Information  
     51 

PART III  

Item 10. 
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
     52 

Item 11. 
     Executive Compensation  
     53 

Item 12. 
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
     53 

Item 13. 
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
     53 

Item 14. 
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services  
     53 

PART IV  

Item 15. 
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  
     54 

Signatures  
     57 

Table of Contents  

   CAUTIONARY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO THE  
  PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 
  Certain statements regarding our future performance constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may relate to, among other things, the demand for our products and services; net sales growth; comparable store sales; effects of competition; state of the economy; state of the residential construction, housing and home improvement markets; state of the credit markets, including mortgages, home equity loans and consumer credit; inventory and in-stock positions; implementation of store, interconnected retail and supply chain initiatives; management of relationships with our suppliers and vendors; continuation of share repurchase programs; net earnings performance; earnings per share; capital allocation and expenditures; liquidity; return on invested capital; expense leverage; stock-based compensation expense; commodity price inflation and deflation; the ability to issue debt on terms and at rates acceptable to us; the effect of accounting charges; the effect of adopting certain accounting standards; store openings and closures; and financial outlook. 
  Forward-looking statements are based on currently available information and our current assumptions, expectations and projections about future events. You should not rely on our forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties   many of which are beyond our control or are currently unknown to us   as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those described in Item 1A, "Risk Factors," and elsewhere in this report. 
  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update these statements other than as required by law. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). 

PART I 
    
    Item 1.  Business. 
  Introduction 
  The Home Depot, Inc. is the world s largest home improvement retailer based on Net Sales for the fiscal year ended   February 2, 2014   ("fiscal   2013  "). The Home Depot stores sell a wide assortment of building materials, home improvement products and lawn and garden products and provide a number of services. The Home Depot stores average approximately   104,000   square feet of enclosed space, with approximately   24,000   additional square feet of outside garden area. As of the end of fiscal   2013  , we had   2,263   The Home Depot stores located throughout the United States including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the territories of the U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam, Canada and Mexico. When we refer to "The Home Depot," the "Company," "we," "us" or "our" in this report, we are referring to The Home Depot, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. 
  The Home Depot, Inc. is a Delaware corporation that was incorporated in 1978. Our Store Support Center (corporate office) is located at 2455 Paces Ferry Road, N.W., Atlanta, Georgia 30339. Our telephone number is (770) 433-8211. 
  Our internet website is www.homedepot.com. We make available on the Investor Relations section of our website, free of charge, our Annual Reports to shareholders, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such documents with, or furnishing such documents to, the SEC. 
  We include our website addresses throughout this filing for reference only. The information contained on our websites is not incorporated by reference into this report. 
  For information on key financial highlights, including historical revenues, profits and total assets, see the "Five-Year Summary of Financial and Operating Results" on page F-1 of this report and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 
     1 

     Table of Contents  

   Our Business 
  Operating Strategy       
  Over the past several years, we have maintained a consistent strategic framework comprised of three key initiatives: Customer Service; Product Authority; and Disciplined Capital Allocation, Productivity and Efficiency. We tie these together through our Interconnected Retail initiative with the objective of strengthening our performance in each element of the framework and providing a seamless customer experience, whether it begins online or in our stores. In fiscal   2013  , we continued to execute on our strategy as follows: 
             
    Customer Service  . Our customer service initiative is anchored on the principles of creating an emotional connection with our customers, putting customers first, taking care of our associates and simplifying the business. One of our primary objectives has been to take tasking out of the stores so that our associates can devote more time to assisting our customers. By the end of fiscal 2013, we reached our goal of dedicating 60% of our store labor hours to customer-facing activities. We have also instituted new programs for our professional customers and new associate training specific to our "interconnected" customers who order product online and pick it up in our stores. Through these efforts, we exceeded our internal goal in customer satisfaction survey results, and we are continuing our efforts to improve on those results. We also sought to maintain competitive wages and incentive opportunities to attract, retain and motivate our associates.  
                
    Product Authority  . Our product authority initiative is facilitated by our merchandising transformation and portfolio strategy, which is focused on delivering product innovation, assortment and value. In fiscal   2013  , we introduced a wide range of innovative new products to our professional, do-it-for-me and do-it-yourself customers, while remaining focused on offering everyday values in our stores and online. To maximize the productivity of our selling square footage, we invested in advanced tools to localize the selection of in-store products and identify space availability that can be shifted to other categories we want to grow. We also continued to expand our online product assortment to provide more variety for our customers. For example, in fiscal 2013, we continued our appliance showroom resets in our stores and expanded our assortment of appliances available online, resulting in double digit growth for appliances in fiscal 2013. In addition, to respond to increasing customer demand for personalization, we introduced customizable products such as patio sets. 
                
    Disciplined Capital Allocation, Productivity and Efficiency  . We have advanced this initiative through building best-in-class competitive advantages in our information technology and supply chain to better ensure product availability to our customers while managing our costs. During fiscal   2013  , we continued to focus on optimizing our supply chain network and improving our inventory, transportation and distribution productivity. This effort included enhancements to our forecasting and replenishment systems, which help our business react to and recover from sales spikes while keeping inventory under control. We also invested in our information technology to support our interconnected retail initiative. In addition to making disciplined decisions about capital allocation, we maintained our focus on expense control, which drove higher returns on invested capital and allowed us to return value to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends as discussed in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 
                
    Interconnected Retail  . As customers increasingly expect to be able to buy how, when and where they want, we believe that providing a seamless shopping experience across multiple channels, with an expanded array of merchandise, will be a key enabler for future success. The interconnected retail initiative is woven throughout our business and connects our other three key initiatives. At the core of this initiative is using our almost 2,000 U.S. stores as a network of convenient locations for our customers who shop online. In fiscal   2013  , we completed our rollout of Buy Online, Ship to Store ("BOSS") and Buy Online, Return In Store ("BORIS"), which complement Buy Online, Pick-up In Store ("BOPIS"), introduced in fiscal 2011. We also began the groundwork for Buy Online, Deliver From Store ("BODFS"), which will give us the capability to deliver orders placed online from our stores to the customer's home or job site. We expect to launch BODFS in fiscal 2014. To further support direct-to-customer delivery, in February 2014, we opened a new direct fulfillment center in Georgia, with two additional facilities expected to be built by the end of 2015. For our user experience online, we continued to enhance our website and mobile sites by improving our search functionality, making our product content more visual and engaging and simplifying the check-out process. For fiscal 2013, sales from our online channels increased over 50% compared to fiscal 2012. We also enhanced our online experience by acquiring Blinds.com, the market leader in online sales of window coverings, in January 2014.  
        2 

     Table of Contents  

   Customer Service       
  Our Customers  .     The Home Depot stores serve three primary customer groups, and we have different customer service approaches to meet their particular needs: 
             
    Do-It-Yourself ("DIY") Customers.   These customers are typically home owners who purchase products and complete their own projects and installations. Our associates assist these customers with specific product and installation questions both in our stores and through online resources and other media designed to provide product and project knowledge. We also offer a variety of clinics and workshops both to impart this knowledge and to build an emotional connection with our DIY customers. 
                
    Do-It-For-Me ("DIFM") Customers.   These customers are typically home owners who purchase materials and hire third parties to complete the project or installation. Our stores offer a variety of installation services targeted at DIFM customers who purchase products and installation of those products from us in our stores, online or in their homes through in-home consultations. Our installation programs include many categories, such as flooring, cabinets, countertops, water heaters, and sheds. In addition, we provide professional installation in a number of categories sold through our in-home sales programs, such as roofing, siding, windows, kitchen and bath refacing, furnaces, and central air systems.   
                
    Professional Customers  . These customers are primarily professional remodelers, general contractors, repairmen, small business owners and tradesmen. We recognize the unique service needs of the professional customer and use our expertise to facilitate their buying experience. We offer a variety of special programs to these customers, including delivery and will-call services, dedicated staff, expanded credit programs, designated parking spaces close to store entrances and bulk pricing programs for both online and in-store purchases. In fiscal 2013, we launched a mobile app for our professional customers, which enables them to see multiple stores' inventory at one time, provides them with direct access to our pro desks, and gives them other functionality to help them better manage their businesses. We also introduced Pro Xtra, a new loyalty program that provides our professional customers with discounts on useful business services, exclusive product offers and a purchase tracking tool to enable receipt lookup online and job tracking of purchases across all forms of payment. 
     In fiscal   2013  , we undertook a number of projects and new developments to enhance our customers' shopping experiences. Our goal is to remove complexity from the stores to allow our associates to focus on our customers. As noted above, as of the end of fiscal   2013  , approximately 60% of our store labor hours were dedicated to customer-facing activity. We also rolled out a new initiative in fiscal 2013 called Project Simple to reduce unnecessary store reports, store-based emails and meetings that kept store management from selling activities. To assist our BOPIS and BOSS customers, we rolled out a new customer service training for our associates called Customer FIRST for the Interconnected Customer, which stresses the importance of quick customer pickup of merchandise. To support this initiative, we enabled our First Phone mobile handheld devices to complete BOPIS and BOSS transactions from anywhere in the store. Now our online customers can come into the store, retrieve their merchandise and complete the transaction without having to stand in line at the cash register. During fiscal 2013, we also revamped our freight flow process to improve our in-stock rate and accuracy of our on-hand inventory count while also shifting more of the stocking activity to take place when stores are closed so as not to interfere with our customers' shopping experience.  
  In fiscal 2013, we continued to automate our special order and installation process to improve transparency and communication and to simplify the customer experience. In addition, we are rolling out Install to Go so that our third-party installers can accept payment on their mobile devices from our DIFM customers, an added convenience for both our installers and customers. We also completed the integration of two companies acquired in fiscal 2012 that provide services to our customers   a flooring measurement company and a kitchen and bath refacing company. These acquisitions enable us to increase our control over the installation process and serve as a single point of contact for our customers, which in turn strengthens and unifies our customers' home services experience under The Home Depot brand. 
  We help our professional, DIY and DIFM customers finance their projects by offering private label credit products in our stores through third-party credit providers. In fiscal   2013  , our customers opened approximately 2.8 million new The Home Depot private label credit accounts, and at fiscal year end the total number of The Home Depot active account holders was approximately 11 million. Private label credit card sales accounted for approximately 23% of sales in fiscal   2013  .   
  Our Associates.     Our associates are key to our customer service initiative. We empower our associates to deliver excellent customer service through our Customer FIRST training program, and we have a number of programs to recognize stores and individual associates for exceptional customer and community service. At the end of fiscal   2013  , we employed approximately 365,000 associates, of whom approximately 22,000 were salaried, with the remainder compensated on an hourly or  
     3 

     Table of Contents  

   temporary basis. To attract and retain qualified personnel, we seek to maintain competitive salary and wage levels in each market we serve. We measure associate satisfaction regularly, and we believe that our employee relations are very good.  
  Product Authority 
  Our Products.     Our product portfolio strategy is aimed at delivering innovation, assortment and value. A typical The Home Depot store stocks approximately   30,000   to   40,000   products during the year, including both national brand name and proprietary items. We also offer over 700,000 products through our Home Depot and Home Decorators Collection websites. To enhance our merchandising capabilities, we continued to make improvements to our information technology tools in fiscal   2013   to give our merchants and suppliers greater visibility into category and item performance and to increase the localization of our stores   both in terms of product assortment and space allocation. We also continued to use the resources of BlackLocus, Inc., a data analytics and pricing firm we acquired in fiscal 2012, to help us make focused merchandising decisions based on complex sets of large amounts of data. 
  In fiscal   2013  , we introduced a number of innovative and distinctive products to our customers at attractive values. Examples of these new products include LED light bulbs from Cree       ; Soft Spring Carpet from Mohawk       ; customizable patio furniture from Plantation Patterns Patio       ; wifi-enabled thermostats from Nest        and Honeywell       ; Behr Marquee        exterior paint with a one coat coverage guarantee and ability to repel rain within 60 minutes of application; and Double Duty Sawzall Blades from Milwaukee       . 
  During fiscal   2013  , we offered a number of proprietary and exclusive brands across a wide range of departments, such as Husky        hand tools and tool storage; Defiant        door locks; Everbilt        hardware fasteners; Hampton Bay        lighting and fans; Vigoro        lawn care products; RIDGID        and Ryobi        power tools; Glacier Bay        bath fixtures; HDX        tools, hardware, storage and cleaning products; and CE Tech        audio-visual accessories. We will continue to assess strategic alliances and relationships with suppliers and opportunities to expand the range of products available under brand names that are exclusive to The Home Depot. 
  We maintain a global sourcing program to obtain high-quality and innovative products directly from manufacturers around the world. In fiscal 2013, in addition to our sourcing operations at our Store Support Center in Atlanta, Georgia, we maintained three sourcing offices located in the Chinese cities of Shanghai, Shenzhen and Dalian, as well as sourcing offices in Gurgaon, India; Rome, Italy; Monterrey, Mexico and Toronto, Canada. 
  The percentage of Net Sales of each of our major product categories (and related services) for each of the last three fiscal years is presented in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. Net Sales outside the U.S. were   $8.5 billion  ,   $8.4 billion   and   $8.0 billion   for fiscal   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , respectively. Long-lived assets outside the U.S. totaled   $2.9 billion  ,   $3.1 billion   and   $3.1 billion   as of   February 2, 2014  ,   February 3, 2013   and   January 29, 2012  , respectively. 
  Quality Assurance  .   We have both quality assurance and engineering resources that are dedicated to overseeing the quality of all of our products, whether they are directly imported, locally or globally sourced or proprietary branded products. Through these programs, we have established criteria for supplier and product performance that are designed to ensure that our products comply with applicable international, federal, state and local safety, quality and performance standards. We also have a Supplier Social and Environmental Responsibility Program designed to ensure that our suppliers adhere to the highest standards of social and environmental responsibility. 
  Energy Saving Products and Programs.     Over 20 years ago, The Home Depot made a commitment to sustainability and doing the right thing for our shareholders, our customers and the environment. We support sustainability on a daily basis by providing consumers with a selection of environmentally preferred products that help them save money, energy and water. Through our Eco Options        Program introduced in 2007, we have created product categories that allow consumers to easily identify products that meet specifications for energy efficiency, water conservation, healthy home, clean air and sustainable forestry. As of the end of fiscal 2013, our Eco Options        Program included over 7,700 products. Through this program, we sell products such as ENERGY STAR        certified appliances, compact fluorescent light ("CFL") and LED light bulbs, wifi-programmable thermostats, tankless water heaters and other products, enabling our customers to save on their utility bills. We estimate that in fiscal 2013 we have helped consumers save nearly $770 million in electricity costs through sales of ENERGY STAR        certified products as well as over 42 billion gallons of water and over $350 million in water bills through the sales of WaterSense       -labeled bath faucets, showerheads, aerators, toilets and irrigation controllers. Additionally, by converting all of our consumer interior paints to "Low VOC" or "Zero VOC," we eliminated over 27 million pounds of volatile organic compound emissions in fiscal 2013. 
     4 

     Table of Contents  

   We also continue to use the Eco Options        page on our website to reach consumers interested in environmentally responsible and cost-saving products and projects. The site provides consumers with information on the benefits of environmentally-preferred Eco Options        products through "green" blogs, articles and projects, featured Eco Options        products and energy and water savings calculators to help consumers estimate potential savings by switching out their older, less efficient products with energy- and water-saving models. 
  We continue to offer our nationwide, in-store CFL bulb recycling program launched in 2008. This service is offered to customers free of charge and is available in all U.S. stores. We also maintain an in-store rechargeable battery recycling program. Launched in 2001 and currently done in partnership with Call2Recycle, this program is also available to customers free of charge in all stores throughout the U.S. Through these recycling programs, in fiscal   2013   we helped recycle over 600,000 pounds of CFL bulbs and over 940,000 pounds of rechargeable batteries collected from our customers. In fiscal   2013  , we also recycled over 94,000 lead acid batteries collected from our customers under our lead acid battery exchange program, as well as approximately 186,000 tons of cardboard through a nationwide cardboard recycling program across our U.S. stores.  
  Seasonality.     Our business is subject to seasonal influences. Generally, our highest volume of sales occurs in our second fiscal quarter, and the lowest volume occurs during our fourth fiscal quarter.   
  Competition.     Our industry is highly competitive, with competition based primarily on customer service, price, store location and appearance, and quality, availability and assortment of merchandise. Although we are currently the world s largest home improvement retailer, in each of the markets we serve there are a number of other home improvement stores, electrical, plumbing and building materials supply houses and lumber yards. With respect to some products and services, we also compete with specialty design stores, showrooms, discount stores, local, regional and national hardware stores, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, independent building supply stores and, to a lesser extent, other retailers, as well as with installers of home improvement products. In addition, we face growing competition from online and multichannel retailers as our customers increasingly use computers, tablets, smart phones and other mobile devices to shop online and compare prices and products.  
  Intellectual Property.     Our business has one of the most recognized brands in North America. As a result, we believe that The Home Depot        trademark has significant value and is an important factor in the marketing of our products, e-commerce, stores and business. We have registered or applied for registration of trademarks, service marks, copyrights and internet domain names, both domestically and internationally, for use in our business, including our expanding proprietary brands such as HDX       , Husky       , Hampton Bay       , Home Decorators Collection       , Glacier Bay        and Vigoro       . We also maintain patent portfolios relating to some of our products and services and seek to patent or otherwise protect innovations we incorporate into our products or business operations. 
  Disciplined Capital Allocation, Productivity and Efficiency 
  Logistics.     Our supply chain operations are focused on creating a competitive advantage through ensuring product availability for our customers, effectively using our investment in inventory, and managing total supply chain costs. Our fiscal   2013   initiatives have been to further optimize and efficiently operate our network, build new logistics capabilities and improve our inventory management systems and processes by investing in information technology. 
  Our distribution strategy is to provide the optimal flow path for a given product. Rapid Deployment Centers ("RDCs") play a key role in optimizing our network as they allow for aggregation of product needs for multiple stores to a single purchase order and then rapid allocation and deployment of inventory to individual stores upon arrival at the RDC. This results in a simplified ordering process and improved transportation and inventory management. We have 18 fully mechanized RDCs in the U.S., and we opened our first RDC in Canada in early 2014, with a second Canadian RDC under development. We also continued our U.S. transload program for imported products in four facilities operated by third parties near ocean ports. Transload facilities allow us to improve our import logistics costs and inventory management by postponing final inventory deployment decisions until product arrives at destination ports.  
  Over the past several years, we have centralized our inventory planning and replenishment function and implemented new forecasting and replenishment technology. This has helped us to improve our in-stock rates and our inventory productivity at the same time. At the end of fiscal   2013  , over 95% of our U.S. store products were ordered through central inventory management. 
  In addition to our 18 RDCs in the U.S., at the end of fiscal   2013  , we operated 34 bulk distribution centers, which handle products distributed optimally on flat bed trucks, in the U.S. and Canada. We also operated 36 conventional distribution centers, which include stocking, direct fulfillment and specialty distribution centers, in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. In  
     5 

     Table of Contents  

   February 2014, to support direct-to-customer delivery, we opened a new direct fulfillment center in the U.S., and we plan to add two additional facilities by the end of 2015. We expect these facilities to provide us the ability to deliver 90% of our customers' parcel orders in the U.S. within two days. We remain committed to leveraging our supply chain capabilities to fully utilize and optimize our improved logistics network. 
  Commitment to Environmentally Responsible Operations  .   The Home Depot is committed to conducting business in an environmentally responsible manner. This commitment impacts all areas of our business, including energy usage, supply chain, store construction and maintenance, and, as noted above under "Energy Saving Products and Programs," product selection and delivery of product knowledge to our customers. 
  In fiscal   2013  , our energy management team continued to implement strict operational standards that establish energy efficient practices in all of our U.S. facilities. These include HVAC unit temperature regulation and adherence to strict lighting schedules, which are the largest sources of energy consumption in our stores, as well as use of energy management systems in each store to monitor energy efficiency. We estimate that by implementing and utilizing these energy saving programs, we have saved almost 7.0 billion kilowatt hours (kWh) since 2004. That year, we set a goal to reduce our kWh per square foot in our U.S. stores by 20% by 2015, and we met that goal in fiscal 2013, well in advance of our targeted date. 
  Through our supply chain efficiencies described above under "Logistics," we are targeting a 20% reduction in our domestic supply chain greenhouse gas emissions from 2008 to 2015, which would equate to annual fuel savings of approximately 25 million gallons. We also continued to monitor our "carbon footprint" from the operation of our stores as well as from our transportation and supply chain activities. Through our energy conservation and supply chain initiatives, we estimate that we reduced our absolute carbon emissions by approximately 216,000 metric tons in 2012 compared to 2011. 
  With respect to construction of our stores, we partnered with the U.S. Green Building Council and, as of the end of fiscal 2013, have built eight LEED for New Construction certified or similarly certified stores. In 2012, we opened a new store in Lodi, California and used a grant from the U.S. Department of Energy to help design, monitor and verify the energy savings at that store. The building is designed to consume substantially less energy than the 2007 90.1 ASHRAE standards established by the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers, an international society that sets forth HVAC and refrigeration standards to promote sustainability. We also implemented a rainwater reclamation project in 2010. As of the end of fiscal 2013, we had retrofitted 122 of our stores with reclamation tanks to collect rainwater and condensation from HVAC units and garden center roofs, which is in turn used to water plants in our outside garden centers. We estimate our annual water savings from these units to be approximately 500,000 gallons per retrofitted store in fiscal 2013. 
  Our efforts have resulted in a number of environmental awards and recognitions. For example, in 2013, we were named "Retail Partner of the Year" by both the ENERGY STAR        division and WaterSense        division of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for our overall excellence in energy efficiency and water efficiency. We also scored 99 out of 100 on the Carbon Disclosure Project Climate Disclosure Index, placing us among the highest scoring companies in the Index and at the top of our sector. 
  We are strongly committed to maintaining a safe shopping and working environment for our customers and associates and protecting the environment of the communities in which we do business. Our Environmental, Health   Safety ("EH S") function is dedicated to ensuring the health and safety of our customers and associates, with trained associates who evaluate, develop, implement and enforce policies, processes and programs on a Company-wide basis. Our EH S policies are woven into our everyday operations and are part of The Home Depot culture. Some common program elements include: daily store inspection checklists (by department); routine follow-up audits from our store-based safety team members and regional, district and store operations field teams; equipment enhancements and preventative maintenance programs to promote physical safety; departmental merchandising safety standards; training and education programs for all associates, with varying degrees of training provided based on an associate's role and responsibilities; and awareness, communication and recognition programs designed to drive operational awareness and understanding of EH S issues. 
  Interconnected Retail 
  Our interconnected retail initiative supports and connects our three other key initiatives, and it is growing in importance as the line between online and in-store shopping continues to blur. Over 30% of our online orders are picked up in a store, and many of our customers research products online and then go into one of our stores to view the products in person or talk to an associate before making the purchase. While in the store, customers may also go online to access ratings and reviews, compare prices or view our extended assortment, and over 10% of our online orders are created in-store with a store associate assisting the customer. Providing a seamless multichannel retail experience is key to helping our customers buy when, how  
     6 

     Table of Contents  

   and where they want. Throughout fiscal 2013, we continued to invest in our website to allow customers to more easily find and purchase an expanded array of products and provide them with flexibility and convenience for their purchases (for example, through our BOPIS, BORIS and BOSS programs). Through our website, which can be accessed through computers, tablets, smart phones and other mobile devices, customers can share reviews, purchase products, track their installation projects and connect with our associates to gain product and project knowledge. To increase the productivity and efficiency of our associates, merchants and suppliers and ensure that the right product is in the right place to meet our customers' needs, we also continued to invest in the development of our distribution forecasting and replenishment system for enhanced inventory management. 
    
    Item 1A.  Risk Factors. 
  The risks and uncertainties described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. You should read these Risk Factors in conjunction with "Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 and our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in Item 8. There also may be other factors that we cannot anticipate or that are not described in this report generally because we do not currently perceive them to be material. Those factors could cause results to differ materially from our expectations. 
  Strong competition could adversely affect prices and demand for our products and services and could decrease our market share. 
  We operate in markets that are highly competitive. We compete principally based on customer service, price, store location and appearance, and quality, availability and assortment of merchandise. In each market we serve, there are a number of other home improvement stores, electrical, plumbing and building materials supply houses and lumber yards. With respect to some products and services, we also compete with specialty design stores, showrooms, discount stores, local, regional and national hardware stores, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, independent building supply stores and, to a lesser extent, other retailers, as well as with installers of home improvement products. In addition, we face growing competition from online and multichannel retailers as our customers increasingly use computers, tablets, smart phones and other mobile devices to shop online and compare prices and products in real time. Intense competitive pressures from one or more of our competitors or our inability to adapt effectively and quickly to a changing competitive landscape could affect our prices, our margins or demand for our products and services. If we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to these competitive pressures, including through maintenance of superior customer service and customer relationships, our market share and our financial performance could be adversely affected.  
  We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer needs, expectations or trends, which could adversely affect our relationship with customers, our reputation, the demand for our products and services, and our market share. 
  The success of our business depends in part on our ability to identify and respond promptly to evolving trends in demographics, consumer preferences, expectations and needs, and unexpected weather conditions, while also managing inventory levels. It is difficult to successfully predict the products and services our customers will demand. Recovery in the housing and home improvement market puts further pressure on our ability to meet customer needs and expectations and maintain high service levels. In addition, we must continually anticipate and adapt to the increasing use of technology and mobile devices by our customers in the purchasing process. Customers are able to use technology to rapidly compare products and prices and use social media to provide feedback and information about our Company and products in a manner that can be quickly and broadly disseminated. To the extent a customer has a negative experience and shares it over social media, it may impact our brand and reputation. Further, we have an aging store base that requires maintenance to deliver the shopping environment our customers desire. Failure to maintain our stores and an effective online presence and to timely identify or respond to changing consumer preferences, expectations and home improvement needs could adversely affect our relationship with customers, our reputation, the demand for our products and services, and our market share.  
  Our success depends upon our ability to attract, train and retain highly qualified associates while also controlling our labor costs. 
  Our customers expect a high level of customer service and product knowledge from our associates. To meet the needs and expectations of our customers, we must attract, train and retain a large number of highly qualified associates while at the same time controlling labor costs. Our ability to control labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including prevailing wage rates and health and other insurance costs, as well as the impact of legislation or regulations governing labor relations or healthcare benefits. In addition, we compete with other retail businesses for many of our associates in hourly positions, and we invest significant resources in training and motivating them to maintain a high level of job satisfaction.  
     7 

     Table of Contents  

   These positions have historically had high turnover rates, which can lead to increased training and retention costs. There is no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified associates in the future.  
  Uncertainty regarding economic conditions and other factors beyond our control could adversely affect demand for our products and services, our costs of doing business and our financial performance. 
  Our financial performance depends significantly on the stability of the housing, residential construction and home improvement markets, as well as general economic conditions, including changes in gross domestic product. Adverse conditions in or uncertainty about these markets or the economy could adversely impact consumer confidence, causing our customers to delay purchasing or determine not to purchase home improvement products and services. Other factors beyond our control   including high levels of unemployment and foreclosures, interest rate fluctuations, fuel and other energy costs, labor and healthcare costs, the availability of financing, the state of the credit markets, including mortgages, home equity loans and consumer credit, weather, natural disasters and other conditions beyond our control   could further adversely affect demand for our products and services, our costs of doing business and our financial performance.  
  If we do not maintain the privacy and security of customer, associate, supplier or Company information, we could damage our reputation, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation. 
  Our business involves the storage and transmission of customers' personal information, consumer preferences and credit card information, as well as confidential information about our associates, our suppliers and our Company. Our information systems are vulnerable to an increasing threat of continually evolving cybersecurity risks. Any significant compromise or breach of our data security, whether external or internal, or misuse of associate or customer data, could significantly damage our reputation, cause the disclosure of confidential customer, associate, supplier or Company information, and result in significant costs, lost sales, fines and lawsuits. While we have implemented systems and processes to protect against unauthorized access to or use of secured data and to prevent data loss, there is no guarantee that these procedures are adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches or misuse of the data. The regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and use, and privacy is increasingly rigorous, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs.  
  A failure of a key information technology system or process could adversely affect our business. 
  We rely extensively on information technology systems, some of which are managed by third-party service providers, to analyze, process and manage transactions and data. We also rely heavily on the integrity of this data in managing our business. In order for these systems and processes to operate effectively, we or our service providers must periodically maintain and update them. We or our service providers could experience errors, interruptions, delays or cessations of service in key portions of our information technology infrastructure, which could significantly disrupt our operations and be costly, time consuming and resource-intensive to remedy.  
  Disruptions in our customer-facing technology systems could impair our interconnected retail strategy and give rise to negative customer experiences. 
  Through our information technology developments, we are able to provide an improved overall shopping environment and a multichannel experience that empowers our customers to shop and interact with us from computers, tablets, smart phones and other mobile devices. We use our website both as a sales channel for our products and also as a method of providing product, project and other relevant information to our customers to drive both in-store and online sales. We have multiple online communities and knowledge centers that allow us to inform, assist and interact with our customers. Multichannel retailing is continually evolving and expanding, and we must effectively respond to changing customer expectations and new developments. Disruptions, failures or other performance issues with these customer-facing technology systems could impair the benefits that they provide to our online and in-store business and negatively affect our relationship with our customers.  
  We rely on third-party suppliers. If we fail to identify and develop relationships with a sufficient number of qualified suppliers, or if our current suppliers experience financial difficulties, our ability to timely and efficiently access products that meet our high standards for quality could be adversely affected. 
  We buy our products from suppliers located throughout the world. Our ability to continue to identify and develop relationships with qualified suppliers who can satisfy our high standards for quality and our need to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge. Our ability to access products also can be adversely affected by political instability, the financial instability of suppliers (particularly in light of continuing economic difficulties in various regions of the world), suppliers  noncompliance with applicable laws, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, supply disruptions, weather conditions, natural disasters, shipping interruptions or costs, and other factors beyond our control.  
     8 

     Table of Contents  

   If we are unable to effectively manage and expand our alliances and relationships with selected suppliers of both brand name and proprietary products, we may be unable to effectively execute our strategy to differentiate ourselves from our competitors. 
  As part of our focus on product differentiation, we have formed strategic alliances and exclusive relationships with selected suppliers to market products under a variety of well-recognized brand names. We have also developed relationships with selected suppliers to allow us to market proprietary products that are comparable to national brands. Our proprietary products differentiate us from other retailers, generally carry higher margins than national brand products and represent a growing portion of our business. If we are unable to manage and expand these alliances and relationships or identify alternative sources for comparable brand name and proprietary products, we may not be able to effectively execute product differentiation, which may impact our sales and gross margin results. 
  The implementation of our supply chain and technology initiatives could disrupt our operations in the near term, and these initiatives might not provide the anticipated benefits or might fail. 
  We have made, and we plan to continue to make, significant investments in our supply chain and technology. These initiatives are designed to streamline our operations to allow our associates to continue to provide high quality service to our customers, while simplifying customer interaction and providing our customers with a more interconnected retail experience. The cost and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of these initiatives, including those associated with managing third-party service providers and employing new web-based tools and services, could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations in the near term. In addition, our improved supply chain and new or upgraded technology might not provide the anticipated benefits, it might take longer than expected to realize the anticipated benefits, or the initiatives might fail altogether, each of which could adversely impact our competitive position and our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 
  Disruptions in our supply chain and other factors affecting the distribution of our merchandise could adversely impact our business. 
  A disruption within our logistics or supply chain network, including damage or destruction to our distribution centers or weather-related events, could adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory in a timely manner, which could impair our ability to meet customer demand for products and result in lost sales, increased supply chain costs or damage to our reputation. Such a disruption could negatively impact our financial performance or financial condition. 
  If we are unable to manage effectively our installation service business, we could suffer lost sales and be subject to fines, lawsuits and damaged reputation. 
  We act as a general contractor to provide installation services to our DIFM customers through third-party installers. As such, we are subject to regulatory requirements and risks applicable to general contractors, which include management of licensing, permitting and quality of our third-party installers. We have established processes and procedures that provide protections beyond those required by law to manage these requirements and ensure customer satisfaction with the services provided by our third-party installers. If we fail to manage these processes effectively or provide proper oversight of these services, we could suffer lost sales, fines and lawsuits, as well as damage to our reputation, which could adversely affect our business. 
  Our costs of doing business could increase as a result of changes in, increased enforcement of, or adoption of new federal, state or local laws and regulations. 
  We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern numerous aspects of our business. Recently, there have been a large number of legislative and regulatory initiatives and reforms, as well as increased enforcement of existing laws and regulations by federal, state and local agencies. Changes in, increased enforcement of, or adoption of new federal, state or local laws and regulations governing minimum wage or living wage requirements, other wage, labor or workplace regulations, the sale of some of our products, transportation, logistics, supply chain transparency, taxes, energy costs or environmental matters could increase our costs of doing business or impact our store operations. Healthcare reform under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 could adversely impact our labor costs and our ability to negotiate favorable terms under our benefit plans for our associates. 
  If we cannot successfully manage the unique challenges presented by international markets, we may not be successful in our international operations. 
  Our ability to successfully conduct retail operations in, and source products and materials from, international markets is affected by many of the same risks we face in our U.S. operations, as well as unique costs and difficulties of managing international operations. Our international operations, including any expansion in international markets, may be adversely affected by local laws and customs, U.S. laws applicable to foreign operations and other legal and regulatory constraints, as  
     9 

     Table of Contents  

   well as political and economic conditions. Risks inherent in international operations also include, among others, potential adverse tax consequences, greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights, risks associated with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local anti-bribery law compliance, challenges in our ability to identify and gain access to local suppliers and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations. 
  The inflation or deflation of commodity prices could affect our prices, demand for our products, our sales and our profit margins. 
  Prices of certain commodity products, including lumber and other raw materials, are historically volatile and are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in domestic and international supply and demand, labor costs, competition, market speculation, government regulations and periodic delays in delivery. Rapid and significant changes in commodity prices may affect the demand for our products, our sales and our profit margins. 
  Our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if needed, could be adversely affected by the volatility in the capital markets. 
  We obtain and manage liquidity from the positive cash flow we generate from our operating activities and our access to capital markets, including our commercial paper programs supported by a back-up credit facility with a consortium of banks. There is no assurance that our ability to obtain additional financing through the capital markets, if needed, will not be adversely impacted due to economic conditions. New or incremental tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity and volatility in the capital markets could result in diminished availability of credit, higher cost of borrowing and lack of confidence in the equity market, making it more difficult to obtain additional financing on terms that are favorable to us. 
  Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results or financial condition. 
  Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, asset impairment, impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, inventories, lease obligations, self-insurance, tax matters and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. 
  We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, and while we cannot predict the outcomes of those proceedings and other contingencies with certainty, some of these outcomes may adversely affect our operations or increase our costs. 
  We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, including government inquiries and investigations, and consumer, employment, tort and other litigation that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the outcome of some of these proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take or refrain from taking actions which could adversely affect our operations or could result in excessive verdicts. Additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management s attention and resources from other matters. 
    
    Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments. 
  Not applicable. 
    
     10 

       Table of Contents  

   Item 2.  Properties. 
  The following tables show locations of the   1,977   The Home Depot stores located in the U.S. and its territories and the   286   The Home Depot stores outside the U.S. at the end of fiscal   2013  : 

11 

       Table of Contents  

                            International Locations 
    Number of Stores 
      
    International Locations 
    Number of Stores 
      Canada: 

Mexico: 
      
      Alberta 
    27 

Aguascalientes 
    1 
      
      British Columbia 
    26 

Baja California Norte 
    5 
      
      Manitoba 
    6 

Baja California Sur 
    2 
      
      New Brunswick 
    3 

Campeche 
    1 
      
      Newfoundland 
    1 

Chiapas 
    2 
      
      Nova Scotia 
    4 

Chihuahua 
    5 
      
      Ontario 
    86 

Coahuila 
    5 
      
      Prince Edward Island 
    1 

Colima 
    2 
      
      Quebec 
    22 

Distrito Federal 
    8 
      
      Saskatchewan 
    4 

Durango 
    1 
      
      Total Canada 
    180 

Guanajuato 
    4 

Guerrero 
    2 

Hidalgo 
    1 

Jalisco 
    7 

Michoac n 
    3 

Morelos 
    2 

Nayarit 
    1 

Nuevo Le n 
    10 

Puebla 
    4 

Queretaro 
    3 

Quintana Roo 
    1 

San Luis Potosi 
    1 

Sinaloa 
    4 

Sonora 
    4 

State of Mexico 
    14 

Tabasco 
    1 

Tamaulipas 
    5 

Tlaxcala 
    1 

Veracruz 
    5 

Yucatan 
    1 

Total Mexico 
    106 

During fiscal   2013  , we opened two new The Home Depot stores in the U.S. and closed one store. We also opened six new stores in Mexico. 
  Of our   2,263   stores operating at the end of fiscal   2013  , approximately 90% were owned (including those owned subject to a ground lease), consisting of approximately 210.3 million square feet, and approximately 10% of such stores were leased, consisting of approximately 24.7 million square feet. 
  Additionally, at the end of fiscal   2013  , we had six Home Decorators Collection locations in Georgia, Illinois, Kansas, Missouri and New Jersey. 
  At the end of fiscal   2013  , we operated 133 warehouses and distribution centers located in 35 states or provinces, consisting of approximately 39.0 million square feet, of which approximately 1.1 million is owned and approximately 37.9 million is leased. 
     12 

       Table of Contents  

   Our executive, corporate staff, divisional staff and financial offices occupy approximately 2.2 million square feet of leased and owned space in Atlanta, Georgia. At the end of fiscal   2013   including the offices in Atlanta, we occupied an aggregate of approximately 3.4 million square feet, of which approximately 2.1 million is owned and approximately 1.3 million is leased, for store support centers and customer support centers. 
    
    Item 3.  Legal Proceedings. 
  We are reporting the following proceedings to comply with SEC regulations, which require us to disclose certain information about proceedings arising under federal, state or local environmental provisions if we reasonably believe that such proceedings may result in monetary sanctions of $100,000 or more. 
  As previously reported, in November 2013, the Company received subpoenas from the District Attorney of Alameda County, California, working with the District Attorney of San Joaquin County and the California Attorney General's office, seeking documents and information relating to the Company's disposal of hazardous waste at its California facilities. Although the Company cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding, it does not expect the outcome to have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 
    
    Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures. 
  Not applicable. 
    
     13 

       Table of Contents  

   PART II 
    
    Item 5.  Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. 
  Since April 19, 1984, our common stock has been listed on the New York Stock Exchange, trading under the symbol "HD." The Company paid its first cash dividend on June 22, 1987 and has paid cash dividends during each subsequent quarter. Future dividend payments will depend on the Company s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by the Board of Directors. 
  The table below sets forth the high and low sales prices of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange and the quarterly cash dividends declared per share of common stock for the periods indicated. 

As of   March 10, 2014  , there were approximately 138,000 shareholders of record of our common stock and approximately 1,150,000 additional "street name" holders whose shares are held of record by banks, brokers and other financial institutions. 
     14 

     Table of Contents  

   Stock Performance Graph 
  The graph and table below present the Company s cumulative total shareholder returns relative to the performance of the Standard   Poor s 500 Composite Stock Index and the Standard   Poor s Retail Composite Index for the five-year period commencing January 30, 2009, the last trading day of fiscal 2008, and ending January 31, 2014, the last trading day of fiscal   2013  . The graph assumes $100 invested at the closing price of the Company s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange and each index on January 30, 2009 and assumes that all dividends were reinvested on the date paid. The points on the graph represent fiscal year-end amounts based on the last trading day in each fiscal year. 

15 

     Table of Contents  

   Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
  In the first quarter of fiscal 2013, the Board of Directors authorized a $17.0 billion share repurchase program. Through the end of fiscal   2013  , the Company has repurchased shares of its common stock having a value of approximately $8.5 billion under this program. The number and average price of shares purchased in each fiscal month of the fourth quarter of fiscal   2013   are set forth in the table below: 

(1) 
    These amounts include repurchases pursuant to the Company s 1997 and Amended and Restated 2005 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plans (the "Plans"). Under the Plans, participants may surrender shares as payment of applicable tax withholding on the vesting of restricted stock and deferred share awards. Participants in the Plans may also exercise stock options by surrendering shares of common stock that the participants already own as payment of the exercise price. Shares so surrendered by participants in the Plans are repurchased pursuant to the terms of the Plans and applicable award agreement and not pursuant to publicly announced share repurchase programs. 
              (2) 
    In the first quarter of fiscal 2013, the Board of Directors authorized a $17.0 billion share repurchase program that replaced the previous authorization. The program does not have a prescribed expiration date.  
              (3) 
    In the third quarter of fiscal 2013, the Company paid $1.5 billion under an Accelerated Share Repurchase ("ASR") agreement and received an initial delivery of approximately 16.4 million shares. The transaction was completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, with the Company receiving approximately 3.4 million additional shares to settle the agreement. The Average Price Paid Per Share was calculated with reference to the average stock price of the Company's common stock over the term of the ASR agreement. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. 
              (4) 
    In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, the Company paid $1.5 billion under an ASR agreement and received an initial delivery of approximately 15.0 million shares. The transaction was completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, with the Company receiving approximately 3.8 million additional shares to settle the agreement. The Average Price Paid Per Share was calculated with reference to the average stock price of the Company's common stock over the term of the ASR agreement. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. 
     In March 2014, the Company entered into an ASR agreement with a third-party financial institution to repurchase   $950 million   of the Company's common stock. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. Shares received in connection with the ASR agreement will be reflected in the share repurchase table in future quarters. 
  Sales of Unregistered Securities 
  During the fourth quarter of fiscal   2013  , the Company issued 485 deferred stock units under The Home Depot, Inc. Non-Employee Directors' Deferred Stock Compensation Plan pursuant to the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") and Rule 506 of the SEC's Regulation D thereunder. The deferred stock units were credited to the accounts of those non-employee directors who elected to receive board retainers in the form of deferred stock units instead of cash during the fourth quarter of fiscal   2013  . The deferred stock units convert to shares of common stock on a one-for-one basis following a termination of service as described in this plan. 
  During the fourth quarter of fiscal   2013  , the Company credited 32,531 deferred stock units to participant accounts under The Home Depot FutureBuilder Restoration Plan pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act for involuntary, non-contributory plans. The deferred stock units convert to shares of common stock on a one-for-one basis following a termination of service as described in this plan. 
    
    Item 6.  Selected Financial Data. 
  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to page F-1 of this report. 
     16 

       Table of Contents  

   Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 
    Executive Summary and Selected Consolidated Statements of Earnings Data 
  For the fiscal year ended   February 2, 2014   ("fiscal   2013  "), we reported Net Earnings of $  5.4 billion   and Diluted Earnings per Share of $  3.76   compared to Net Earnings of $  4.5 billion   and Diluted Earnings per Share of $  3.00   for the fiscal year ended   February 3, 2013   ("fiscal   2012  "). The results for fiscal 2012 included a total charge of $145 million, net of tax, related to the closing of our remaining seven big box stores in China ("China store closings") in fiscal 2012, which had a negative impact of $0.10 to Diluted Earnings per Share. Excluding the charge related to the China store closings, Net Earnings were $4.7 billion and Diluted Earnings per Share were $3.10 for fiscal 2012.  
  Net Sales increased   5.4%   to $  78.8 billion   for fiscal   2013   from $  74.8 billion   for fiscal   2012  . Our comparable store sales increased   6.8%   in fiscal   2013  , driven by increased comparable store customer transactions and comparable store average ticket. Comparable store sales for our U.S. stores increased 7.5% in fiscal   2013  . 
  Fiscal 2013 consisted of 52 weeks compared with 53 weeks for fiscal 2012. The 53   rd    week added approximately $1.2 billion in Net Sales and increased Diluted Earnings per Share by approximately $0.07 for fiscal 2012. 
  In fiscal   2013  , we continued to focus on the following key initiatives: 
  Customer Service     Our focus on customer service is anchored on the principles of creating an emotional connection with customers, putting customers first, taking care of our associates and simplifying the business. In fiscal   2013  , we met our goal of dedicating 60% of store labor hours to customer-facing activity, and we enhanced our Customer FIRST training for associates to incorporate the interconnected retail experience. We also expanded our FIRST phones' functionality to process Buy Online, Pick-up In Store ("BOPIS") and Buy Online, Ship to Store ("BOSS") orders, allowing our associates to close these types of transactions immediately from wherever they are in the store. Also in fiscal 2013, we introduced Pro Xtra, a new loyalty program that provides our professional customers with discounts on useful business services, exclusive product offers and streamlined payment and receipt tracking tools. 
  Product Authority     Our focus on product authority is facilitated by our merchandising transformation and portfolio strategy, which is aimed at delivering product innovation, assortment and value. As part of this effort, we introduced innovative new products and great values for our professional, do-it-for-me and do-it-yourself customers in a variety of departments. Also in fiscal 2013, we continued our appliance showroom resets and expanded our assortment of appliances available online, resulting in double digit growth for appliances for fiscal 2013. 
  Disciplined Capital Allocation, Productivity and Efficiency     Our approach to driving productivity and efficiency is advanced through continuous operational improvement in the stores and our supply chain, disciplined capital allocation and building shareholder value through higher returns on invested capital and total value returned to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases. In fiscal   2013  , we continued to make improvements to our forecasting and replenishment systems, helping our business to react to and recover from sales spikes while keeping inventory under control. Our inventory turnover ratio was 4.6 times at the end of fiscal 2013 compared to 4.5 times at the end of fiscal 2012. 
  We repurchased a total of   111 million   shares for   $8.5 billion   through Accelerated Share Repurchase agreements and the open market during fiscal   2013  . In addition, in February 2014, we announced a 21% increase in our quarterly cash dividend to $0.47 per share. 
  Interconnected Retail     Our focus on interconnected retail, which connects our other three key initiatives, is based on building a competitive and seamless platform across all commerce channels. In fiscal 2013, we continued to enhance our website and mobile experience resulting in improved customer satisfaction scores and online sales conversion rates. Sales from our online channels increased over 50% for fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 and now represent approximately 3.5% of our total Net Sales. We have also begun the development of three new direct fulfillment centers, the first of which opened in February 2014. Each facility will have the capacity to hold approximately 100,000 product offerings available to be shipped directly to customers, along with the capability to ship most orders the same day they are received. 
  In January 2014, we acquired Blinds.com, an online seller of window coverings. We believe that this acquisition will allow us to offer customers a compelling shopping, sales and service experience for online window coverings purchases and help us to develop best-in-class capabilities for selling customizable and configurable products online. 
  In fiscal   2013  , we opened   eight   new stores, including   six   new stores in Mexico and   two   new stores in the U.S., and closed one store in the U.S., for a total store count of   2,263   at the end of fiscal   2013  . As of the end of fiscal   2013  , a total of   286   of our stores, or   12.6%  , were located in Canada and Mexico. 
     17 

     Table of Contents  

   We generated   $7.6 billion   of cash flow from operations in fiscal   2013  . This cash flow, along with $4.0 billion of incremental long-term debt issued in fiscal 2013 and cash on hand, was used to fund   $8.5 billion   of share repurchases, pay   $2.2 billion   of dividends and fund   $1.4 billion   in capital expenditures. 
  Our return on invested capital (computed on net operating profit after tax for the trailing twelve months and the average of beginning and ending long-term debt and equity) was   20.9%   for fiscal   2013   compared to   17.0%   for fiscal   2012  .  
    
     18 

     Table of Contents  

   We believe the selected sales data, the percentage relationship between Net Sales and major categories in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings and the percentage change in the dollar amounts of each of the items presented below are important in evaluating the performance of our business operations. 

Note: Certain percentages may not sum to totals due to rounding.    
        
            (2) 
    The 53   rd    week of fiscal 2012 increased customer transactions by approximately 21 million, positively impacted average ticket by approximately $0.06 and positively impacted sales per square foot by approximately $5.51. 
              (3) 
    Includes Net Sales at locations open greater than 12 months, including relocated and remodeled stores and online sales, and excluding closed stores. Retail stores become comparable on the Monday following their 365   th    day of operation. Comparable store sales is intended only as supplemental information and is not a substitute for Net Sales or Net Earnings presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Net Sales for the 53   rd    week of fiscal 2012 are not included in comparable store sales results for fiscal 2012. 
              (4) 
    Consists of Net Sales generated online through the Home Depot and Home Decorators Collection websites for products delivered to customer locations or picked up in stores through our BOPIS and BOSS programs. 
     N/A   Not Applicable 
    
     19 

       Table of Contents  

   Results of Operations 
  For an understanding of the significant factors that influenced our performance during the past three fiscal years, the following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements presented in this report. 
  Fiscal   2013   Compared to Fiscal   2012    
  Net Sales 
  Fiscal 2013 consisted of 52 weeks compared to 53 weeks in fiscal 2012. Net Sales for fiscal   2013     increased     5.4%   to   $78.8 billion   from   $74.8 billion   for fiscal   2012  . The   increase   in Net Sales for fiscal   2013   reflects the impact of positive comparable store sales for fiscal 2013, partially offset by $1.2 billion of Net Sales attributable to the additional week in fiscal 2012. Total comparable store sales increased   6.8%   for fiscal   2013   compared to an increase of   4.6%   for fiscal   2012  . 
  The positive comparable store sales for fiscal   2013   reflect a number of factors, including the execution of our key initiatives, continued strength in our core categories and an improved U.S. housing market. All of our departments posted positive comparable store sales for fiscal   2013  . Comparable store sales for our Kitchen, Electrical, Lumber, Plumbing, Lighting, Bath and Indoor Garden product categories were above or at the Company average for fiscal   2013  . Comparable store sales for our Tools, Paint, Flooring, D cor, Hardware, Outdoor Garden, Millwork and Building Materials product categories were positive for fiscal   2013  . Further, our comparable store customer transactions increased approximately 3.4% for fiscal 2013 and comparable store average ticket increased approximately 3.3% for fiscal   2013   due in part to strong sales in our appliance business and continued recovery in sales to our professional customers.  
  Gross Profit 
  Gross Profit   increased     6.0%   to   $27.4 billion   for fiscal   2013   from   $25.8 billion   for fiscal   2012  . Gross Profit for fiscal 2012 included a $10 million charge related to the China store closings. Gross Profit as a percent of Net Sales was   34.8%   for fiscal   2013   compared to   34.6%   for fiscal   2012  , an   increase   of 18 basis points. The   increase   in gross profit margin in fiscal   2013   was driven primarily by businesses we acquired in fiscal 2012, which are gross margin accretive, higher productivity in our supply chain and improved shrink performance, partially offset by a change in the mix of products sold. 
  Operating Expenses 
  Selling, General and Administrative expenses ("SG A")   increased     0.5%   to   $16.6 billion   for fiscal   2013   from   $16.5 billion   for fiscal   2012  . SG A for fiscal 2012 included a $135 million charge related to the China store closings. As a percent of Net Sales, SG A was   21.1%   for fiscal   2013   compared to   22.1%   for fiscal   2012  . The   decrease   in SG A as a percent of Net Sales for fiscal   2013   reflects expense leverage resulting from the positive comparable store sales environment and strong expense controls. 
  Depreciation and Amortization was   $1.6 billion   for both fiscal   2013   and   2012  . Depreciation and Amortization as a percent of Net Sales was   2.1%   for both fiscal   2013   and   2012  .  
  Operating Income 
  Operating Income   increased     18.0%   to   $9.2 billion   for fiscal   2013   from   $7.8 billion   for fiscal   2012  . Operating Income as a percent of Net Sales was   11.6%   for fiscal   2013   compared to   10.4%   for fiscal   2012  .  
  Interest and Other, net 
  In fiscal   2013  , we recognized   $699 million   of Interest and Other, net, compared to   $545 million   for fiscal   2012  . Interest and Other, net, as a percent of Net Sales was   0.9%   for fiscal   2013   compared to   0.7%   for fiscal   2012  . The   increase   in Interest and Other, net, as a percent of Net Sales for fiscal 2013 reflects increased interest expense associated with the issuance of $4.0 billion of incremental long-term debt in fiscal 2013. Interest and Other, net, for fiscal 2012 included a $67 million pretax benefit related to the termination of our guarantee of a senior secured loan of HD Supply, Inc. 
  Provision for Income Taxes 
  Our combined effective income tax rate was   36.4%   for fiscal   2013   compared to   37.2%   for fiscal   2012  . The effective income tax rate for fiscal 2012 was higher than fiscal 2013 as we were unable to realize any tax benefit from the $145 million charge related to the China store closings for fiscal 2012. Excluding the charge related to the China store closings, our combined effective income tax rate was 36.5% for fiscal 2012.  
     20 

       Table of Contents  

   Diluted Earnings per Share  
  Diluted Earnings per Share were   $3.76   for fiscal   2013   compared to   $3.00   for fiscal   2012  . Excluding the charge related to the China store closings, Diluted Earnings per Share were $3.10 for fiscal   2012  . The 53   rd    week increased Diluted Earnings per Share by approximately $0.07 for fiscal 2012.  
  Non-GAAP Measures 
  To provide clarity, internally and externally, about our operating performance, we supplement our reporting to exclude from some GAAP measures certain items that we do not consider to be representative of our actual operating performance. These financial calculations are "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in SEC rules. We believe these non-GAAP financial measures better enable management and investors to understand and analyze our performance by providing them with meaningful information relevant to events of unusual nature or frequency that impact the comparability of underlying business results from period to period. However, this supplemental information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related GAAP measures.  
  The results for fiscal 2012 included a $145 million charge, net of tax, related to the China store closings as described more fully in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. There were no adjustments for fiscal 2013 or 2011 for events of unusual nature or frequency. The following reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measures for fiscal 2012 (amounts in millions, except per share data):    

Fiscal   2012   Compared to Fiscal   2011    
  Net Sales 
  Fiscal 2012 consisted of 53 weeks compared to 52 weeks in fiscal 2011. Net Sales for fiscal 2012 increased 6.2% to $74.8 billion from $70.4 billion for fiscal 2011. The increase in Net Sales for fiscal 2012 reflects the impact of positive comparable store sales and $1.2 billion of Net Sales attributable to the additional week in fiscal 2012. Total comparable store sales increased 4.6% for fiscal 2012 compared to an increase of 3.4% for fiscal 2011. 
  The positive comparable store sales for fiscal 2012 reflect a number of factors including the execution of our key initiatives and an improved U.S. housing market. All of our departments except for one posted positive comparable store sales for fiscal 2012, and comparable store average ticket increased 2.9% for fiscal 2012. Comparable store sales for our Lumber, Flooring, Paint, Tools, Bath, Electrical, Lighting, Indoor Garden and D cor product categories were above or at the Company average for fiscal 2012. Comparable store sales for our Hardware, Plumbing, Outdoor Garden, Kitchen and Millwork product categories were positive for fiscal 2012. Comparable store sales for our Building Materials product category were negative for fiscal 2012, reflecting the impact of weather and difficult year-over-year comparisons in roofing due to storm and repair activity that drove sales in fiscal 2011. 
  Gross Profit 
  Gross Profit increased 6.5% to $25.8 billion for fiscal 2012 from $24.3 billion for fiscal 2011. Gross Profit for fiscal 2012 included a $10 million charge related to the China store closings. Gross Profit as a percent of Net Sales was 34.6% for fiscal 2012 compared to 34.5% for fiscal 2011, an increase of 10 basis points. The increase in gross profit margin in fiscal 2012 was driven primarily by a change in mix of products sold and benefits from our supply chain transformation in the U.S. 
  Operating Expenses 
  SG A increased 3.0% to $16.5 billion for fiscal 2012 from $16.0 billion for fiscal 2011. SG A for fiscal 2012 included a $135 million charge related to the China store closings. As a percent of Net Sales, SG A was 22.1% for fiscal 2012 compared to 22.8% for fiscal 2011. Excluding the charge related to the China store closings, SG A as a percent of Net Sales was 21.9% for fiscal 2012. The decrease in SG A as a percent of Net Sales for fiscal 2012 reflects expense leverage  
     21 

       Table of Contents  

   resulting from the positive comparable store sales environment, strong expense controls, and lower credit card expense and casualty reserves, offset by the charge related to the China store closings. 
  Depreciation and Amortization was $1.6 billion for both fiscal 2012 and 2011. Depreciation and Amortization as a percent of Net Sales was 2.1% for fiscal 2012 compared to 2.2% for fiscal 2011. The decrease in Depreciation and Amortization as a percent of Net Sales reflects expense leverage in the positive comparable store sales environment. 
  Operating Income 
  Operating Income increased 16.6% to $7.8 billion for fiscal 2012 from $6.7 billion for fiscal 2011. Operating Income as a percent of Net Sales was 10.4% for fiscal 2012 compared to 9.5% for fiscal 2011. Excluding the charge related to the China store closings, Operating Income increased 18.8% to $7.9 billion for fiscal 2012. 
  Interest and Other, net 
  In fiscal 2012, we recognized $545 million of Interest and Other, net, compared to $593 million for fiscal 2011. Interest and Other, net, as a percent of Net Sales was 0.7% for fiscal 2012 compared to 0.8% for fiscal 2011. Interest and Other, net, for fiscal 2012 included a $67 million pretax benefit related to the termination of our guarantee of a senior secured loan of HD Supply, Inc. 
  Provision for Income Taxes 
  Our combined effective income tax rate was 37.2% for fiscal 2012 compared to 36.0% for fiscal 2011. The effective income tax rate for fiscal 2012 was higher than fiscal 2011 as we were unable to realize any tax benefit from the $145 million charge related to the China store closings. Excluding the charge related to the China store closings, our combined effective income tax rate was 36.5% for fiscal 2012. Additionally, the effective income tax rate for fiscal 2011 reflects a benefit from the reversal of a valuation allowance related to the utilization of capital loss carryforwards as well as certain favorable state and local tax settlements. 
  Diluted Earnings per Share 
  Diluted Earnings per Share were $3.00 for fiscal 2012 compared to $2.47 for fiscal 2011. Excluding the charge related to the China store closings, Diluted Earnings per Share were $3.10 for fiscal 2012. The 53   rd    week increased Diluted Earnings per Share by approximately $0.07 for fiscal 2012.  
    
    Liquidity and Capital Resources 
  Cash flow generated from operations provides us with a significant source of liquidity. For fiscal   2013  , Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities was $  7.6 billion   compared to $  7.0 billion   for fiscal   2012  . This   increase   is primarily due to an   $850 million     increase   in Net Earnings resulting from higher comparable store sales and expense controls.  
  Net Cash Used in Investing Activities for fiscal   2013   was $  1.5 billion   compared to $  1.4 billion   for fiscal   2012  . This change was primarily due to a $77 million increase in Capital Expenditures in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012. 
  Net Cash Used in Financing Activities for fiscal   2013   was $  6.7 billion   compared to $  5.0 billion   for fiscal   2012  . The year-over-year increase of approximately $1.7 billion reflects a $4.6 billion increase in share repurchases, a $500 million increase in dividends paid to shareholders and $543 million less in proceeds from the sale of common stock, offset for the most part by $4.0 billion, net of repayments, of proceeds from long-term borrowings in fiscal 2013. 
  In February 2013, our Board of Directors authorized a new $17.0 billion share repurchase program, under which we have repurchased   111 million   shares of our common stock for a total of   $8.5 billion   as of the end of fiscal   2013  . We entered into ASR agreements with third-party financial institutions to repurchase   $6.2 billion   of our common stock in fiscal   2013  . Under the agreements, we paid   $6.2 billion   to the financial institutions and received a total of   81 million   shares. Also in fiscal   2013  , we repurchased   30 million   additional shares of our common stock for   $2.3 billion   through the open market.  
  In September 2013, we issued   $1.15 billion   of   2.25%   senior notes due   September 10, 2018   (the "2018 notes ) at a discount of   $1 million  ,   $1.1 billion   of   3.75%   senior notes due   February 15, 2024   (the "2024 notes ) at a discount of   $6 million   and   $1.0 billion   of   4.875%   senior notes due   February 15, 2044   (the "2044 notes ) at a discount of   $15 million   (together, the "September 2013 issuance"). Interest on the 2018 notes is due   semi-annually on March 10 and September 10   of each year, beginning March 10, 2014. Interest on the 2024 notes and the 2044 notes is due   semi-annually on February 15 and August 15   of each year, beginning February 15, 2014. The net proceeds of the September 2013 issuance were used for general corporate  
     22 

     Table of Contents  

   purposes, including repayment of our   $1.25 billion     5.25%   senior notes that matured   December 16, 2013   and repurchases of shares of our common stock.   
  In April 2013, we issued   $1.0 billion   of   2.70%   senior notes due   April 1, 2023   at a discount of   $2 million   and   $1.0 billion   of   4.20%   senior notes due   April 1, 2043   at a discount of   $4 million   (together, the "April 2013 issuance"). Interest on these senior notes is due   semi-annually on April 1 and October 1   of each year, beginning October 1, 2013. The net proceeds of the April 2013 issuance were used for general corporate purposes, including repurchases of shares of our common stock. 
  In November 2013, we entered into an interest rate swap that expires on   September 10, 2018  , with a notional amount of   $500 million  , accounted for as a fair value hedge, that swaps fixed rate interest on the 2018 notes for variable interest equal to LIBOR plus 88 basis points. At February 2, 2014, the approximate fair value of this agreement was a liability of   $1 million  , which is the estimated amount we would have paid to settle the agreement.  
  Also in November 2013, we entered into an interest rate swap that expires on   September 15, 2020  , with a notional amount of   $500 million  , accounted for as a fair value hedge, that swaps fixed rate interest on our   3.95%   senior notes due   September 15, 2020   for variable interest equal to LIBOR plus 183 basis points. At February 2, 2014, the approximate fair value of this agreement was an asset of   $2 million  , which is the estimated amount we would have received to settle the agreement.   
  At February 2, 2014, we had an outstanding interest rate swap that expires on   March 1, 2016  , with a notional amount of   $500 million  , accounted for as a fair value hedge, that swaps fixed rate interest on our   5.40%   senior notes due   March 1, 2016   for variable interest equal to LIBOR plus 300 basis points. At February 2, 2014, the approximate fair value of this agreement was an asset of   $28 million  , which is the estimated amount we would have received to settle the agreement. 
  We have commercial paper programs that allow for borrowings up to   $2.0 billion  . In connection with the programs, we have a back-up credit facility with a consortium of banks for borrowings up to   $2.0 billion  . The credit facility expires in July 2017 and contains various restrictive covenants. At   February 2, 2014  , we were in compliance with all of the covenants, and they are not expected to impact our liquidity or capital resources. As of   February 2, 2014  , there were no borrowings outstanding under the commercial paper programs or the related credit facility. See Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our commercial paper programs and related credit facility. 
  We use capital and operating leases to finance a portion of our real estate, including our stores, distribution centers and store support centers. The net present value of capital lease obligations is reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets in Long-Term Debt and Current Installments of Long-Term Debt. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the operating leases are not reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  
  In connection with the sale of HD Supply on August 30, 2007, we guaranteed a $1.0 billion senior secured amortizing term loan of HD Supply. The original expiration date of the guarantee was August 30, 2012. In March 2010, we amended the guarantee to extend the expiration date to April 1, 2014. The fair value of the guarantee at August 30, 2007 was $16 million and was recorded as a liability in Other Long-Term Liabilities. The extension of the guarantee increased the fair value of the guarantee to $67 million, resulting in a $51 million charge to Interest and Other, net, for fiscal 2010. In April 2012, the term loan guarantee was terminated. As a result, we reversed the $67 million liability related to the guarantee, resulting in a $67 million pretax benefit to Interest and Other, net, for fiscal 2012. 
  As of   February 2, 2014  , we had $  1.9 billion   in Cash and Cash Equivalents. We believe that our current cash position, access to the debt capital markets and cash flow generated from operations should be sufficient not only for our operating requirements but also to enable us to complete our capital expenditure programs and fund dividend payments, share repurchases and any required long-term debt payments through the next several fiscal years. In addition, we have funds available from our commercial paper programs and the ability to obtain alternative sources of financing.  
  In March 2014, we entered into an ASR agreement with a third-party financial institution to repurchase   $950 million   of our common stock. Under the agreement, we paid   $950 million   to the financial institution and received an initial delivery of approximately   10 million   shares in the first quarter of fiscal 2014. The final number of shares delivered upon settlement of the agreement will be determined with reference to the average price of our common stock over the term of the ASR agreement. 
  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
  In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, operating leases for a portion of our real estate and other assets are not reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
     23 

     Table of Contents  

   Contractual Obligations 
  The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations as of   February 2, 2014   (amounts in millions): 

(1) 
    Excludes present value of capital lease obligations, fair value of interest rate swaps and unamortized debt discounts. 
              (2) 
    Interest payments are at current interest rates including the impact of active interest rate swaps. 
               (4) 
    Purchase obligations include all legally binding contracts such as firm commitments for inventory purchases, utility purchases, capital expenditures, software acquisitions and license commitments and legally binding service contracts. Purchase orders that are not binding agreements are excluded from the table above. 
              (5) 
    Excludes $708 million of noncurrent unrecognized tax benefits due to uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash payments. 
       
    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 
  Our exposure to market risk results primarily from fluctuations in interest rates. Interest rate swap agreements are used, at times, to manage our fixed/floating rate debt portfolio. At   February 2, 2014  , after giving consideration to our interest rate swap agreements, approximately 89% of our debt portfolio was comprised of fixed-rate debt and 11% was floating-rate debt. A 1.0 percentage point change in the interest costs of floating-rate debt would not have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 
  As of   February 2, 2014   we had, net of discounts, $  14.2 billion   of senior notes outstanding. The aggregate market value of these publicly traded senior notes as of   February 2, 2014   was approximately $  15.6 billion  . 
  Although we have international operating entities, our exposure to foreign currency rate fluctuations is not significant to our financial condition or results of operations. 
  Impact of Inflation, Deflation and Changing Prices 
  We have experienced inflation and deflation related to our purchase of certain commodity products. We do not believe that changing prices for commodities have had a material effect on our Net Sales or results of operations. Although we cannot precisely determine the overall effect of inflation and deflation on operations, we do not believe inflation and deflation have had a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 
    
    Critical Accounting Policies 
  Our significant accounting policies are disclosed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following discussion addresses our most critical accounting policies, which are those that are both important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and that require significant judgment or use of significant assumptions or complex estimates. 
  Revenues 
  We recognize revenue, net of estimated returns and sales tax, at the time the customer takes possession of merchandise or receives services. We estimate the liability for sales returns based on our historical return levels. We believe that our estimate for sales returns is an accurate reflection of future returns. We have never recorded a significant adjustment to our estimated liability for sales returns. However, if these estimates are significantly below the actual amounts, our sales could be adversely impacted. When we receive payment from customers before the customer has taken possession of the merchandise or the service has been performed, the amount received is recorded as Deferred Revenue in the accompanying Consolidated  
     24 

     Table of Contents  

   Balance Sheets until the sale or service is complete. We also record Deferred Revenue for the sale of gift cards and recognize this revenue upon the redemption of gift cards in Net Sales. 
  Merchandise Inventories 
  Our Merchandise Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market, with approximately   74%   valued under the retail inventory method and the remainder under a cost method. Retailers like us, with many different types of merchandise at low unit cost and a large number of transactions, frequently use the retail inventory method. Under the retail inventory method, Merchandise Inventories are stated at cost, which is determined by applying a cost-to-retail ratio to the ending retail value of inventories. As our inventory retail value is adjusted regularly to reflect market conditions, our inventory valued under the retail method approximates the lower of cost or market. We evaluate our inventory valued under a cost method at the end of each quarter to ensure that it is carried at the lower of cost or market. The valuation allowance for Merchandise Inventories valued under a cost method was not material to our Consolidated Financial Statements as of the end of fiscal   2013   or   2012  . 
  Independent physical inventory counts or cycle counts are taken on a regular basis in each store and distribution center to ensure that amounts reflected in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements for Merchandise Inventories are properly stated. During the period between physical inventory counts in our stores, we accrue for estimated losses related to shrink on a store-by-store basis. Shrink (or in the case of excess inventory, "swell") is the difference between the recorded amount of inventory and the physical inventory. Shrink may occur due to theft, loss, inaccurate records for the receipt of inventory or deterioration of goods, among other things. We estimate shrink as a percent of Net Sales using the average shrink results from the previous two physical inventories. The estimates are evaluated quarterly and adjusted based on recent shrink results and current trends in the business. Actual shrink results did not vary materially from estimated amounts for fiscal   2013  ,   2012   or   2011  . 
  Self-Insurance 
  We have established liabilities for certain losses related to general liability (including product liability), workers  compensation, employee group medical and automobile claims for which we are self-insured. Our self-insured retention or deductible, as applicable, for each claim involving general liability, workers' compensation and automobile liability is limited to $25 million, $1 million and $1 million, respectively. We do not have any stop loss limits for self-insured employee group medical claims. Our liabilities represent estimates of the ultimate cost for claims incurred as of the balance sheet date. The estimated liabilities are not discounted and are established based upon analysis of historical data and actuarial estimates. The liabilities are reviewed by management and third-party actuaries on a regular basis to ensure that they are appropriate. While we believe these estimates are reasonable based on the information currently available, if actual trends, including the severity or frequency of claims, medical cost inflation or fluctuations in premiums, differ from our estimates, our results of operations could be impacted. Actual results related to these types of claims did not vary materially from estimated amounts for fiscal   2013  ,   2012   or   2011  . 
  Vendor Allowances 
  Vendor allowances primarily consist of volume rebates that are earned as a result of attaining certain purchase levels and advertising co-op allowances for the promotion of vendors  products that are typically based on guaranteed minimum amounts with additional amounts being earned for attaining certain purchase levels. These vendor allowances are accrued as earned, with those allowances received as a result of attaining certain purchase levels accrued over the incentive period based on estimates of purchases. We believe that our estimate of vendor allowances earned based on expected volume of purchases over the incentive period is an accurate reflection of the ultimate allowance to be received from our vendors.  
  Volume rebates and certain advertising co-op allowances earned are initially recorded as a reduction in Merchandise Inventories and a subsequent reduction in Cost of Sales when the related product is sold. Certain advertising co-op allowances that are reimbursements of specific, incremental and identifiable costs incurred to promote vendors  products are recorded as an offset against advertising expense in SG A. 
  Impairment of Long-Lived Assets 
  We evaluate our long-lived assets each quarter for indicators of potential impairment. Indicators of impairment include current period losses combined with a history of losses, management s decision to relocate or close a store or other location before the end of its previously estimated useful life or when changes in other circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The evaluation for long-lived assets is performed at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows, which is generally the individual store level. 
     25 

     Table of Contents  

   The assets of a store with indicators of impairment are evaluated by comparing its undiscounted cash flows with its carrying value. The estimate of cash flows includes management s assumptions of cash inflows and outflows directly resulting from the use of those assets in operations, including gross margin on Net Sales, payroll and related items, occupancy costs, insurance allocations and other costs to operate a store. If the carrying value is greater than the undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference between the carrying value and the estimated fair market value. Impairment losses are recorded as a component of SG A in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings. When a leased location closes, we also recognize in SG A the net present value of future lease obligations less estimated sublease income. 
  We make critical assumptions and estimates in completing impairment assessments of long-lived assets. Our cash flow projections look several years into the future and include assumptions on variables such as future sales and operating margin growth rates, economic conditions, market competition and inflation. A 10% decrease in the estimated undiscounted cash flows for the stores with indicators of impairment would not have a material impact on our results of operations. Our estimates of fair market value are generally based on market appraisals of owned locations and estimates on the amount of potential sublease income and the time required to sublease for leased locations. A 10% decrease in estimated sublease income and a 10% increase in the time required to sublease would not have a material impact on our results of operations. We recorded impairments and lease obligation costs on closings and relocations in the ordinary course of business, as well as for the China store closings in fiscal 2012, which were not material to the Consolidated Financial Statements in fiscal   2013  ,   2012   or   2011  . 
  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
  Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired. We do not amortize goodwill but do assess the recoverability of goodwill in the third quarter of each fiscal year, or more often if indicators warrant, by determining whether the fair value of each reporting unit supports its carrying value. Each year we may assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to complete quantitative impairment assessments, with a quantitative assessment completed at least once every three years. In fiscal   2013  , we elected to estimate the fair values of our identified reporting units using the present value of expected future discounted cash flows. We make critical assumptions and estimates in completing impairment assessments of goodwill and other intangible assets. Our cash flow projections look several years into the future and include assumptions on variables such as future sales and operating margin growth rates, economic conditions, market competition, inflation and discount rates. A 10% decrease in the estimated discounted cash flows for the reporting units would not result in an impairment. A 1.0 percentage point increase in the discount rate used would also not result in an impairment.  
  The reporting units assessed for impairment during fiscal 2013 were U.S., Canada and Mexico. During fiscal   2013  , we determined that our goodwill balances for each of these reporting units were not impaired, as we determined the fair value for each of these reporting units was substantially above its carrying value. In fiscal 2012, we recorded a charge of   $97 million   to impair all of the goodwill associated with our former China reporting unit. There were no impairment charges related to our remaining goodwill for fiscal   2013  ,   2012   or   2011  . 
  We amortize the cost of other intangible assets over their estimated useful lives, which range up to   ten   years, unless such lives are deemed indefinite. Intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested in the third quarter of each fiscal year for impairment, or more often if indicators warrant. There were no impairment charges related to our other intangible assets for fiscal   2013  ,   2012   or   2011  . 
    
    Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 
  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to Item 7, "Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of this report. 
    
     26 

       Table of Contents  

   Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 
  Management s Responsibility for Financial Statements 
  The financial statements presented in this Annual Report have been prepared with integrity and objectivity and are the responsibility of the management of The Home Depot, Inc. These financial statements have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and properly reflect certain estimates and judgments based upon the best available information. 
  The financial statements of the Company have been audited by KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm. Their accompanying report is based upon an audit conducted in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). 
  The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, consisting solely of independent directors, meets five times a year with the independent registered public accounting firm, the internal auditors and representatives of management to discuss auditing and financial reporting matters. In addition, a telephonic meeting is held prior to each quarterly earnings release. The Audit Committee retains the independent registered public accounting firm and regularly reviews the internal accounting controls, the activities of the independent registered public accounting firm and internal auditors and the financial condition of the Company. Both the Company s independent registered public accounting firm and the internal auditors have free access to the Audit Committee. 
  Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
  Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of   February 2, 2014   based on the framework in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework (1992)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on our evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of   February 2, 2014   in providing reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of   February 2, 2014   has been audited by KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included on page 28 in this Form 10-K. 
    
                   /s/ F  RANCIS   S. B  LAKE 
      
    /s/ C  AROL   B. T  OM  
      Francis S. Blake 
  Chairman   
  Chief Executive Officer 
      
    Carol B. Tom  
  Chief Financial Officer   
  Executive Vice President   Corporate Services 

27 

       Table of Contents  

   Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    
  The Board of Directors and Stockholders 
  The Home Depot, Inc.: 
  We have audited The Home Depot, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of   February 2, 2014  , based on criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework (1992)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Home Depot, Inc. s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  In our opinion, The Home Depot, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of   February 2, 2014  , based on criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework (1992)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Consolidated Balance Sheets of The Home Depot, Inc. and subsidiaries as of   February 2, 2014   and   February 3, 2013  , and the related Consolidated Statements of Earnings, Comprehensive Income, Stockholders  Equity, and Cash Flows for each of the fiscal years in the three-year period ended   February 2, 2014  , and our report dated   March 27, 2014   expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. 
  /s/ KPMG LLP 
  Atlanta, Georgia 
  March 27, 2014    
    
     28 

       Table of Contents  

   Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    
  The Board of Directors and Stockholders 
  The Home Depot, Inc.: 
  We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets of The Home Depot, Inc. and subsidiaries as of   February 2, 2014   and   February 3, 2013  , and the related Consolidated Statements of Earnings, Comprehensive Income, Stockholders  Equity, and Cash Flows for each of the fiscal years in the three-year period ended   February 2, 2014  . These Consolidated Financial Statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these Consolidated Financial Statements based on our audits. 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  In our opinion, the Consolidated Financial Statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of The Home Depot, Inc. and subsidiaries as of   February 2, 2014   and   February 3, 2013  , and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the fiscal years in the three-year period ended   February 2, 2014  , in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), The Home Depot, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of   February 2, 2014  , based on criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework (1992)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated   March 27, 2014   expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting. 
  /s/ KPMG LLP 
  Atlanta, Georgia 
  March 27, 2014    
    
     29 

       Table of Contents  

   THE HOME DEPOT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
     30 

       Table of Contents  

   THE HOME DEPOT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
     31 

       Table of Contents  

   THE HOME DEPOT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

32 

       Table of Contents  

   THE HOME DEPOT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
     33 

       Table of Contents  

   THE HOME DEPOT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
     34 

       Table of Contents  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
    
    1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
  Business, Consolidation and Presentation 
  The Home Depot, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") operate The Home Depot stores, which are full-service, warehouse-style stores averaging approximately   104,000   square feet of enclosed space, with approximately   24,000   additional square feet of outside garden area. The stores stock approximately   30,000   to   40,000   different kinds of building materials, home improvement supplies and lawn and garden products that are sold to do-it-yourself customers, do-it-for-me customers and professional customers. The Company also offers over   700,000   products through its Home Depot and Home Decorators Collection websites. At the end of fiscal   2013  , the Company was operating   2,263   The Home Depot stores, which included   1,977   stores in the United States, including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the territories of the U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam ("U.S."),   180   stores in Canada and   106   stores in Mexico. The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.  
  Fiscal Year 
  The Company s fiscal year is a   52  - or   53  -week period ending on the Sunday nearest to   January 31  . Fiscal year ended   February 2, 2014   ("fiscal   2013  ") includes 52 weeks, fiscal year ended   February 3, 2013   ("fiscal   2012  ") includes 53 weeks and fiscal year ended   January 29, 2012   ("fiscal   2011  ") includes   52   weeks.   
  Use of Estimates 
  Management of the Company has made a number of estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and reported amounts of revenues and expenses in preparing these financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Actual results could differ from these estimates. 
  Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
  The carrying amounts of Cash and Cash Equivalents, Receivables and Accounts Payable approximate fair value due to the short-term maturities of these financial instruments. The fair value of the Company s Long-Term Debt is discussed in Note 10. 
  Cash Equivalents 
  The Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased with original maturities of   three   months or less to be cash equivalents. The Company s cash equivalents are carried at fair market value and consist primarily of money market funds. 
  Accounts Receivable 
  The Company has an agreement with a third-party service provider who directly extends credit to customers, manages the Company s private label credit card program and owns the related receivables. The Company evaluated the third-party entities holding the receivables under the program and concluded that they should not be consolidated by the Company. The agreement with the third-party service provider expires in   2018  , with the Company having the option, but no obligation, to purchase the receivables at the end of the agreement. The deferred interest charges incurred by the Company for its deferred financing programs offered to its customers are included in Cost of Sales. The interchange fees charged to the Company for the customers  use of the cards and any profit sharing with the third-party service provider are included in Selling, General and Administrative expenses ("SG A"). The sum of the three is referred to by the Company as "the cost of credit" of the private label credit card program. 
  In addition, certain subsidiaries of the Company extend credit directly to customers in the ordinary course of business. The receivables due from customers were $  57 million   and $  42 million   as of   February 2, 2014   and   February 3, 2013  , respectively. The Company s valuation reserve related to accounts receivable was not material to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company as of the end of fiscal   2013   or   2012  . 
  Merchandise Inventories 
  The majority of the Company s Merchandise Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market, as determined by the retail inventory method. As the inventory retail value is adjusted regularly to reflect market conditions, the inventory valued using the retail method approximates the lower of cost or market. Certain subsidiaries, including retail   
     35 

     Table of Contents  

   operations in Canada and Mexico, and distribution centers, record Merchandise Inventories at the lower of cost or market, as determined by a cost method. These Merchandise Inventories represent approximately   26%   of the total Merchandise Inventories balance. The Company evaluates the inventory valued using a cost method at the end of each quarter to ensure that it is carried at the lower of cost or market. The valuation allowance for Merchandise Inventories valued under a cost method was not material to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company as of the end of fiscal   2013   or   2012  . 
  Independent physical inventory counts or cycle counts are taken on a regular basis in each store and distribution center to ensure that amounts reflected in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements for Merchandise Inventories are properly stated. During the period between physical inventory counts in stores, the Company accrues for estimated losses related to shrink on a store-by-store basis based on historical shrink results and current trends in the business. Shrink (or in the case of excess inventory, "swell") is the difference between the recorded amount of inventory and the physical inventory. Shrink may occur due to theft, loss, inaccurate records for the receipt of inventory or deterioration of goods, among other things. 
  Income Taxes 
  Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. The Company provides for federal, state and foreign income taxes currently payable, as well as for those deferred due to timing differences between reporting income and expenses for financial statement purposes versus tax purposes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted income tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect of a change in income tax rates is recognized as income or expense in the period that includes the enactment date. 
  The Company recognizes the effect of income tax positions only if those positions are more likely than not of being sustained. Recognized income tax positions are measured at the largest amount that is greater than   50%   likely of being realized. Changes in recognition or measurement are reflected in the period in which the change in judgment occurs. 
  The Company and its eligible subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return. Non-U.S. subsidiaries and certain U.S. subsidiaries, which are consolidated for financial reporting purposes, are not eligible to be included in the Company s consolidated U.S. federal income tax return. Separate provisions for income taxes have been determined for these entities. The Company intends to reinvest substantially all of the unremitted earnings of its non-U.S. subsidiaries and postpone their remittance indefinitely. Accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes for these non-U.S. subsidiaries was recorded in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings. 
    
  Depreciation and Amortization 
  The Company s Buildings, Furniture, Fixtures and Equipment are recorded at cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Leasehold Improvements are amortized using the straight-line method over the original term of the lease or the useful life of the improvement, whichever is shorter. The Company s Property and Equipment is depreciated using the following estimated useful lives:    

Capitalized Software Costs 
  The Company capitalizes certain costs related to the acquisition and development of software and amortizes these costs using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the software, which is   three   to   six   years. These costs are included in Furniture, Fixtures and Equipment as discussed further in Note 2. Certain development costs not meeting the criteria for capitalization are expensed as incurred. 
  Revenues 
  The Company recognizes revenue, net of estimated returns and sales tax, at the time the customer takes possession of merchandise or receives services. The liability for sales returns is estimated based on historical return levels. When the Company receives payment from customers before the customer has taken possession of the merchandise or the service has been performed, the amount received is recorded as Deferred Revenue in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets  
     36 

     Table of Contents  

   until the sale or service is complete. The Company also records Deferred Revenue for the sale of gift cards and recognizes this revenue upon the redemption of gift cards in Net Sales. Gift card breakage income is recognized based upon historical redemption patterns and represents the balance of gift cards for which the Company believes the likelihood of redemption by the customer is remote. During fiscal   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , the Company recognized $  30 million  , $  33 million   and $  42 million  , respectively, of gift card breakage income. This income is included in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings as a reduction in SG A. 
  Services Revenue 
  Net Sales include services revenue generated through a variety of installation, home maintenance and professional service programs. In these programs, the customer selects and purchases material for a project, and the Company provides or arranges professional installation. These programs are offered through the Company s stores and in-home sales programs. Under certain programs, when the Company provides or arranges the installation of a project and the subcontractor provides material as part of the installation, both the material and labor are included in services revenue. The Company recognizes this revenue when the service for the customer is complete. 
  All payments received prior to the completion of services are recorded in Deferred Revenue in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. Services revenue was $  3.5 billion  , $  3.2 billion   and $  2.9 billion   for fiscal   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , respectively. 
  Self-Insurance 
  The Company is self-insured for certain losses related to general liability (including product liability), workers  compensation, employee group medical and automobile claims. The expected ultimate cost for claims incurred as of the balance sheet date is not discounted and is recognized as a liability. The expected ultimate cost of claims is estimated based upon analysis of historical data and actuarial estimates. 
    
  Prepaid Advertising 
  Television and radio advertising production costs, along with media placement costs, are expensed when the advertisement first appears. Amounts included in Other Current Assets in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets relating to prepayments of production costs for print and broadcast advertising as well as sponsorship promotions were not material at the end of fiscal   2013   and   2012  . 
  Vendor Allowances 
  Vendor allowances primarily consist of volume rebates that are earned as a result of attaining certain purchase levels and advertising co-op allowances for the promotion of vendors  products that are typically based on guaranteed minimum amounts with additional amounts being earned for attaining certain purchase levels. These vendor allowances are accrued as earned, with those allowances received as a result of attaining certain purchase levels accrued over the incentive period based on estimates of purchases. 
  Volume rebates and certain advertising co-op allowances earned are initially recorded as a reduction in Merchandise Inventories and a subsequent reduction in Cost of Sales when the related product is sold. Certain advertising co-op allowances that are reimbursements of specific, incremental and identifiable costs incurred to promote vendors  products are recorded as an offset against advertising expense. In fiscal   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , gross advertising expense was $  865 million  , $  831 million   and $  846 million  , respectively, and is included in SG A. Specific, incremental and identifiable advertising co-op allowances were $  114 million  , $  85 million   and $  94 million   for fiscal   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , respectively, and are recorded as an offset to advertising expense in SG A. 
  Cost of Sales 
  Cost of Sales includes the actual cost of merchandise sold and services performed, the cost of transportation of merchandise from vendors to the Company s stores, locations or customers, the operating cost of the Company s sourcing and distribution network and the cost of deferred interest programs offered through the Company s private label credit card program. 
  The cost of handling and shipping merchandise from the Company s stores, locations or distribution centers to the customer is classified as SG A. The cost of shipping and handling, including internal costs and payments to third parties, classified as SG A was $  477 million  , $  435 million   and $  430 million   in fiscal   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , respectively. 
     37 

     Table of Contents  

   Impairment of Long-Lived Assets 
  The Company evaluates its long-lived assets each quarter for indicators of potential impairment. Indicators of impairment include current period losses combined with a history of losses, management s decision to relocate or close a store or other location before the end of its previously estimated useful life or when changes in other circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The evaluation for long-lived assets is performed at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows, which is generally the individual store level. 
  The assets of a store with indicators of impairment are evaluated by comparing its undiscounted cash flows with its carrying value. The estimate of cash flows includes management s assumptions of cash inflows and outflows directly resulting from the use of those assets in operations, including gross margin on Net Sales, payroll and related items, occupancy costs, insurance allocations and other costs to operate a store. If the carrying value is greater than the undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference between the carrying value and the estimated fair market value. Impairment losses are recorded as a component of SG A in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings. When a leased location closes, the Company also recognizes in SG A the net present value of future lease obligations less estimated sublease income. The Company recorded impairments and lease obligation costs on closings and relocations in the ordinary course of business, as well as for the closing of seven stores in China in fiscal 2012, which were not material to the Consolidated Financial Statements in fiscal 2013, 2012 or 2011. 
  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
  Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired. The Company does not amortize goodwill but does assess the recoverability of goodwill in the third quarter of each fiscal year, or more often if indicators warrant, by determining whether the fair value of each reporting unit supports its carrying value. Each year the Company may assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to complete quantitative impairment assessments, with a quantitative assessment completed at least once every three years. In fiscal   2013  , the Company elected to estimate the fair values of its identified reporting units using the present value of expected future discounted cash flows.  
  The reporting units assessed for impairment during fiscal 2013 were U.S., Canada and Mexico. During fiscal   2013  , the Company determined that its goodwill balances for each of these reporting units were not impaired, as the Company determined the fair value of each of these reporting units was substantially above its carrying value. In fiscal 2012, the Company recorded a charge of   $97 million   to impair all of the goodwill associated with the former China reporting unit. There were no impairment charges related to the remaining goodwill for fiscal   2013  ,   2012   or   2011  . 
  The Company amortizes the cost of other intangible assets over their estimated useful lives, which range up to   ten   years, unless such lives are deemed indefinite. Intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested in the third quarter of each fiscal year for impairment, or more often if indicators warrant. There were no impairment charges related to other intangible assets for fiscal   2013  ,   2012   or   2011  . 
  Stock-Based Compensation 
  The per share weighted average fair value of stock options granted during fiscal   2013  ,   2012   and   2011   was $  13.10  , $  9.86   and $  7.42  , respectively. The fair value of these options was determined at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions:    

Derivatives 
  The Company uses derivative financial instruments from time to time in the management of its interest rate exposure on long-term debt and its exposure on foreign currency fluctuations. The Company accounts for its derivative financial instruments in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification ("FASB ASC") Subtopic 815-10. The fair value of the Company s derivative financial instruments is discussed in Note 10. 
     38 

     Table of Contents  

   Comprehensive Income 
  Comprehensive Income includes Net Earnings adjusted for certain gains and losses that are excluded from Net Earnings under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Adjustments to Net Earnings and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income consist primarily of foreign currency translation adjustments. 
  Foreign Currency Translation 
  Assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency are translated into U.S. dollars at the current rate of exchange on the last day of the reporting period. Revenues and expenses are generally translated using average exchange rates for the period and equity transactions are translated using the actual rate on the day of the transaction. 
    
  Segment Information 
  The Company operates within a single reportable segment primarily within North America. Net Sales for the Company outside the U.S. were $  8.5 billion  , $  8.4 billion   and $  8.0 billion   for fiscal   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , respectively. Long-lived assets outside the U.S. totaled $  2.9 billion   and $  3.1 billion   as of   February 2, 2014   and   February 3, 2013  , respectively. 
  The following table presents the Net Sales of each major product category (and related services) for each of the last three fiscal years (dollar amounts in millions): 

Note: Certain percentages may not sum to totals due to rounding. 
    
  Reclassifications 
  Certain amounts in prior fiscal years have been reclassified to conform with the presentation adopted in the current fiscal year. 
    
     39 

       Table of Contents  

   2.  PROPERTY AND LEASES 
  Property and Equipment as of   February 2, 2014   and   February 3, 2013   consisted of the following (amounts in millions): 

The Company leases certain retail locations, office space, warehouse and distribution space, equipment and vehicles. While most of the leases are operating leases, certain locations and equipment are leased under capital leases. As leases expire, it can be expected that in the normal course of business certain leases will be renewed or replaced. 
  Certain lease agreements include escalating rents over the lease terms. The Company expenses rent on a straight-line basis over the lease term, which commences on the date the Company has the right to control the property. The cumulative expense recognized on a straight-line basis in excess of the cumulative payments is included in Other Accrued Expenses and Other Long-Term Liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
  Total rent expense, net of minor sublease income, for fiscal   2013  ,   2012   and   2011   was $  905 million  , $  849 million   and $  823 million  , respectively. Certain store leases also provide for contingent rent payments based on percentages of sales in excess of specified minimums. Contingent rent expense for fiscal   2013  ,   2012   and   2011   was approximately $  5 million  , $  4 million   and $  4 million  , respectively. Real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance and operating expenses applicable to the leased property are obligations of the Company under the lease agreements. 
  The approximate future minimum lease payments under capital and all other leases at   February 2, 2014   were as follows (amounts in millions): 

Short-term and long-term obligations for capital leases are included in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets in Current Installments of Long-Term Debt and Long-Term Debt, respectively. The assets under capital leases recorded in Property and Equipment, net of amortization, totaled $  374 million   and $  368 million   at   February 2, 2014   and   February 3, 2013  , respectively.    
     40 

       Table of Contents  

   3.  DEBT 
  The Company has commercial paper programs that allow for borrowings up to   $2.0 billion  . In connection with the programs, the Company has a back-up credit facility with a consortium of banks for borrowings up to   $2.0 billion  . The credit facility expires in   July 2017   and contains various restrictive covenants. At February 2, 2014, the Company was in compliance with all of the covenants, and they are not expected to impact the Company s liquidity or capital resources. There were   no   borrowings under the commercial paper programs or the related credit facility in fiscal 2013 and 2012. 
  The Company s Long-Term Debt at the end of fiscal 2013 and 2012 consisted of the following (amounts in millions): 

In September 2013, the Company issued   $1.15 billion   of   2.25%   senior notes due   September 10, 2018   (the "2018 notes ) at a discount of   $1 million  ,   $1.1 billion   of   3.75%   senior notes due   February 15, 2024   (the "2024 notes ) at a discount of   $6 million   and   $1.0 billion   of   4.875%   senior notes due   February 15, 2044   (the "2044 notes ) at a discount of   $15 million   (together, the "September 2013 issuance"). Interest on the 2018 notes is due   semi-annually on March 10 and September 10   of each year, beginning March 10, 2014. Interest on the 2024 notes and the 2044 notes is due   semi-annually on February 15 and August 15   of each year, beginning February 15, 2014. The net proceeds of the September 2013 issuance were used for general corporate purposes, including repayment of the Company's   $1.25 billion     5.25%   senior notes that matured   December 16, 2013   and repurchases of shares of the Company's common stock. The   $22 million   discount associated with the September 2013 issuance is being amortized over the term of the notes using the effective interest rate method. Issuance costs associated with the September 2013 issuance were approximately   $19 million   and are being amortized over the term of the notes.  
     41 

       Table of Contents  

   In April 2013, the Company issued   $1.0 billion   of   2.70%   senior notes due   April 1, 2023   at a discount of   $2 million   and   $1.0 billion   of   4.20%   senior notes due   April 1, 2043   at a discount of   $4 million   (together, the "April 2013 issuance"). Interest on these senior notes is due   semi-annually on April 1 and October 1   of each year, beginning October 1, 2013. The net proceeds of the April 2013 issuance were used for general corporate purposes, including repurchases of shares of the Company's common stock. The   $6 million   discount associated with the April 2013 issuance is being amortized over the term of the notes using the effective interest rate method. Issuance costs associated with the April 2013 issuance were approximately   $15 million   and are being amortized over the term of the notes. 
  The notes may be redeemed by the Company at any time, in whole or in part, at the redemption price plus accrued interest up to the redemption date. The redemption price is equal to the greater of (1)   100%   of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed, and (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest to maturity. Additionally, if a Change in Control Triggering Event occurs, as defined in each of the outstanding notes except for the   5.40%   senior notes due   March 1, 2016   (the "2016 notes"), holders of all notes other than the 2016 notes have the right to require the Company to redeem those notes at   101%   of the aggregate principal amount of the notes plus accrued interest up to the redemption date. The Company is generally not limited under the indentures governing the notes in its ability to incur additional indebtedness or required to maintain financial ratios or specified levels of net worth or liquidity. Further, while the indentures governing the notes contain various restrictive covenants, none are expected to impact the Company s liquidity or capital resources.    
  In November 2013, the Company entered into an interest rate swap that expires on   September 10, 2018  , with a notional amount of   $500 million  , accounted for as a fair value hedge, that swaps fixed rate interest on the Company s   2.25%   senior notes due   September 10, 2018   for variable interest equal to LIBOR plus 88 basis points. At February 2, 2014, the approximate fair value of this agreement was a liability of   $1 million  , which is the estimated amount the Company would have paid to settle the agreement and is included in Other Long-Term Liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.  
  Also in November 2013, the Company entered into an interest rate swap that expires on   September 15, 2020  , with a notional amount of   $500 million  , accounted for as a fair value hedge, that swaps fixed rate interest on the Company s   3.95%   senior notes due   September 15, 2020   for variable interest equal to LIBOR plus 183 basis points. At February 2, 2014, the approximate fair value of this agreement was an asset of   $2 million  , which is the estimated amount the Company would have received to settle the agreement and is included in Other Assets in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.   
  At February 2, 2014, the Company had an outstanding interest rate swap that expires on   March 1, 2016  , with a notional amount of   $500 million  , accounted for as a fair value hedge, that swaps fixed rate interest on the Company s   5.40%   senior notes due   March 1, 2016   for variable interest equal to LIBOR plus 300 basis points. At February 2, 2014, the approximate fair value of this agreement was an asset of   $28 million  , which is the estimated amount the Company would have received to settle the agreement and is included in Other Assets in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.   
  During fiscal 2013, the Company had outstanding interest rate swaps, accounted for as fair value hedges, with a notional amount of   $1.25 billion   that swapped fixed rate interest on the Company s   $1.25 billion     5.25%   senior notes that expired when the notes were repaid on   December 16, 2013  . 
  At February 2, 2014, the Company had outstanding cross currency swap agreements with a notional amount of   $676 million  , accounted for as cash flow hedges, to hedge foreign currency fluctuations on certain intercompany debt. At February 2, 2014, the approximate fair value of these agreements was a liability of   $9 million  , which is the estimated amount the Company would have paid to settle the agreements and is included in Other Long-Term Liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
  Interest Expense in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings is net of interest capitalized of   $2 million  ,   $3 million   and   $3 million   in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Maturities of Long-Term Debt are   $33 million   for fiscal   2014  ,   $30 million   for fiscal   2015  ,   $3.1 billion   for fiscal   2016  ,   $28 million   for fiscal   2017  ,   $1.2 billion   for fiscal   2018   and   $10.4 billion   thereafter. 
    
    4.  ACCELERATED SHARE REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS 
  In fiscal 2013, the Company entered into Accelerated Share Repurchase ("ASR") agreements with third-party financial institutions to repurchase   $6.2 billion   of the Company s common stock. Under the agreements, the Company paid   $6.2 billion   to the financial institutions and received a total of   81 million   shares in fiscal 2013. The final number of shares delivered upon settlement of each agreement was determined with reference to the average price of the Company s common stock over the  
     42 

     Table of Contents  

   term of the applicable ASR agreement. The   $6.2 billion   of shares repurchased are included in Treasury Stock in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.   
  In fiscal 2012, the Company entered into ASR agreements with third-party financial institutions to repurchase   $3.05 billion   of the Company s common stock. Under the agreements, the Company paid   $3.05 billion   to the financial institutions and received a total of   58 million   shares in fiscal 2012. The final number of shares delivered upon settlement of each agreement was determined with reference to the average price of the Company s common stock over the term of the applicable ASR agreement. The   $3.05 billion   of shares repurchased are included in Treasury Stock in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
  In fiscal 2011, the Company entered into an ASR agreement with a third-party financial institution to repurchase   $1.0 billion   of the Company s common stock. Under the agreement, the Company paid   $1.0 billion   to the financial institution and received a total of   27 million   shares in fiscal 2011. The final number of shares delivered upon settlement of the agreement was determined with reference to the average price of the Company s common stock over the term of the ASR agreement. The   $1.0 billion   of shares repurchased are included in Treasury Stock in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.  
  In March 2014, the Company entered into an ASR agreement with a third-party financial institution to repurchase   $950 million   of the Company's common stock. Under the agreement, the Company paid   $950 million   to the financial institution and received an initial delivery of approximately   10 million   shares in the first quarter of fiscal 2014. The final number of shares delivered upon settlement of the agreement will be determined with reference to the average price of the Company's common stock over the term of the ASR agreement. 
    
    5.  INCOME TAXES 
  The components of Earnings before Provision for Income Taxes for fiscal   2013  ,   2012   and   2011   were as follows (amounts in millions): 

The Provision for Income Taxes consisted of the following (amounts in millions): 

43 

     Table of Contents  

   The Company s combined federal, state and foreign effective tax rates for fiscal   2013  ,   2012   and   2011   were approximately   36.4%  ,   37.2%   and   36.0%  , respectively. 
  The reconciliation of the Provision for Income Taxes at the federal statutory rate of   35%   to the actual tax expense for the applicable fiscal years was as follows (amounts in millions):   

The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities as of   February 2, 2014   and   February 3, 2013   were as follows (amounts in millions): 

Current deferred tax assets and current deferred tax liabilities are netted by tax jurisdiction and noncurrent deferred tax assets and noncurrent deferred tax liabilities are netted by tax jurisdiction, and are included in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets as follows (amounts in millions): 

44 

     Table of Contents  

   The Company believes that the realization of the deferred tax assets is more likely than not, based upon the expectation that it will generate the necessary taxable income in future periods, and except for certain net operating losses discussed below, no valuation reserves have been provided. 
  At February 2, 2014, the Company had state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards available to reduce future taxable income, expiring at various dates beginning   2014   to   2033  . Management has concluded that it is more likely than not that the tax benefits related to the state net operating losses will be realized. However, it is unlikely that the Company will be able to utilize certain foreign net operating losses. Therefore, a valuation allowance has been provided to reduce the deferred tax asset related to foreign net operating losses to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Total valuation allowances related to net operating losses at February 2, 2014 and   February 3, 2013   were   $26 million   and   $27 million  , respectively. 
  In fiscal 2011, the Company was able to utilize a portion of its capital loss carryforward. This utilization combined with other available tax planning strategies enabled the Company to release its   $45 million   valuation allowance associated with the capital loss carryforward. 
  The Company has not provided for deferred income taxes on approximately   $3.1 billion   of undistributed earnings of international subsidiaries because of its intention to indefinitely reinvest these earnings outside the U.S. The determination of the amount of the unrecognized deferred income tax liability related to the undistributed earnings is not practicable; however, unrecognized foreign income tax credits would be available to reduce a portion of this liability. 
  The Company s income tax returns are routinely examined by domestic and foreign tax authorities. The Company is currently appealing certain proposed Internal Revenue Service examination adjustments for fiscal years 2005 through 2007. The Company's U.S. federal tax returns for fiscal years 2008 through 2011 are currently under examination by the IRS. There are also ongoing U.S. state and local and other foreign audits covering tax years 2005 through 2012. The Company does not expect the results from any income tax audit to have a material impact on the Company s financial statements. 
  Over the next twelve months, it is reasonably possible that the resolution of federal and state tax examinations could reduce the Company's unrecognized tax benefits by   $82 million  . Final settlement of these audit issues may result in payments that are more or less than this amount, but the Company does not anticipate the resolution of these matters will result in a material change to its consolidated financial position or results of operations. 
  Reconciliations of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits for fiscal   2013  ,   2012   and   2011   were as follows (amounts in millions): 

The amount of unrecognized tax benefits that if recognized would affect the annual effective income tax rate on Net Earnings was   $344 million  ,   $314 million   and   $246 million   as of   February 2, 2014  ,   February 3, 2013   and   January 29, 2012  , respectively. 
  Net adjustments to accruals for interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions resulted in expense of   $7 million   and   $15 million   in fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively, and provided income of   $2 million   in fiscal   2011  . Total accrued interest and penalties as of   February 2, 2014   and   February 3, 2013   were   $101 million   and   $97 million  , respectively. Interest and penalties are included in Interest Expense and SG A, respectively, in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings. 
     45 

       Table of Contents  

   6.  EMPLOYEE STOCK PLANS 
  The Home Depot, Inc. Amended and Restated 2005 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan ("2005 Plan") and The Home Depot, Inc. 1997 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan ("1997 Plan" and collectively with the 2005 Plan, the "Plans") provide that incentive and non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, performance shares, performance units and deferred shares may be issued to selected associates, officers and directors of the Company. Under the 2005 Plan, the maximum number of shares of the Company s common stock authorized for issuance is   255 million   shares, with any award other than a stock option or stock appreciation right reducing the number of shares available for issuance by   2.11   shares. As of   February 2, 2014  , there were   147 million   shares available for future grants under the 2005 Plan. No additional equity awards could be issued from the 1997 Plan after the adoption of the 2005 Plan on May 26, 2005. 
  Under the terms of the Plans, incentive stock options and non-qualified stock options must have an exercise price at or above the fair market value of the Company s stock on the date of the grant. Typically, incentive stock options and non-qualified stock options vest at the rate of   25%   per year commencing on the first or second anniversary date of the grant and expire on the tenth anniversary date of the grant. Additionally, certain stock options may become non-forfeitable upon the associate reaching age 60, provided the associate has had five years of continuous service. The Company recognized $  24 million  , $  23 million   and $  20 million   of stock-based compensation expense in fiscal   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , respectively, related to stock options. 
  Restrictions on the restricted stock issued under the Plans generally lapse according to one of the following schedules: (1) the restrictions on the restricted stock lapse over various periods up to   five years  , (2) the restrictions on   25%   of the restricted stock lapse upon the third and sixth anniversaries of the date of issuance with the remaining   50%   of the restricted stock lapsing upon the associate s attainment of age 62, or (3) the restrictions on   25%   of the restricted stock lapse upon the third and sixth anniversaries of the date of issuance with the remaining   50%   of the restricted stock lapsing upon the earlier of the associate s attainment of age 60 or the tenth anniversary of the grant date. The Company has also granted performance shares under the Plans, the payout of which is dependent on the Company s performance against target average return on invested capital and operating profit over a three-year performance cycle. Additionally, certain awards may become non-forfeitable upon the associate's attainment of age 60, provided the associate has had five years of continuous service. The fair value of the restricted stock and performance shares is expensed over the period during which the restrictions lapse. The Company recorded stock-based compensation expense related to restricted stock and performance shares of $  171 million  , $  166 million   and $  169 million   in fiscal   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , respectively. 
  In fiscal   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , there were an aggregate of   223 thousand  ,   313 thousand   and   422 thousand   deferred shares, respectively, granted under the Plans. For associates, each deferred share entitles the individual to one share of common stock to be received up to five years after the grant date of the deferred shares, subject to certain deferral rights of the associate. Additionally, certain awards may become non-forfeitable upon the associate reaching age 60, provided the associate has had five years of continuous service. The Company recorded stock-based compensation expense related to deferred shares of $  14 million  , $  13 million   and $  12 million   in fiscal   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , respectively. 
  The Company maintains two Employee Stock Purchase Plans ("ESPPs") (U.S. and non-U.S. plans). The plan for U.S. associates is a tax-qualified plan under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code. The non-U.S. plan is not a Section 423 plan. As of   February 2, 2014  , there were   25 million   shares available under the plan for U.S associates and   19 million   shares available under the non-U.S. plan. The purchase price of shares under the ESPPs is equal to   85%   of the stock s fair market value on the last day of the purchase period, which is a six-month period ending on December 31 and June 30 of each year. During fiscal   2013  , there were   2 million   shares purchased under the ESPPs at an average price of $  67.83  . Under the outstanding ESPPs as of   February 2, 2014  , employees have contributed $  13 million   to purchase shares at   85%   of the stock s fair market value on the last day (June 30, 2014) of the current purchase period. The Company recognized $  19 million  , $  16 million   and $  14 million   of stock-based compensation expense in fiscal   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , respectively, related to the ESPPs. 
  In total, the Company recorded stock-based compensation expense, including the expense of stock options, ESPP shares, restricted stock, performance shares and deferred shares, of $  228 million  , $  218 million   and $  215 million  , in fiscal   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , respectively. 
     46 

       Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes stock options outstanding at   February 2, 2014  ,   February 3, 2013   and   January 29, 2012  , and changes during the fiscal years ended on these dates (shares in thousands):   

The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised was $  181 million  , $  246 million   and $  47 million   in fiscal   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , respectively. As of   February 2, 2014  , there were approximately   14 million   stock options outstanding with a weighted average remaining life of   six   years and an intrinsic value of $  525 million  . As of   February 2, 2014  , there were approximately   5 million   stock options exercisable with a weighted average exercise price of $  30.77  , a weighted average remaining life of   four   years, and an intrinsic value of $  253 million  . As of   February 2, 2014  , there were approximately   11 million   stock options vested or expected to ultimately vest. As of   February 2, 2014  , there was $  38 million   of unamortized stock-based compensation expense related to stock options, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of   two   years. 
    
  The following table summarizes restricted stock and performance shares outstanding at   February 2, 2014  ,   February 3, 2013   and   January 29, 2012  , and changes during the fiscal years ended on these dates (shares in thousands): 

As of   February 2, 2014  , there was $  291 million   of unamortized stock-based compensation expense related to restricted stock and performance shares, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of   two   years. The total fair value  
     47 

       Table of Contents  

   of restricted stock and performance shares vesting during fiscal   2013  ,   2012   and   2011   was $  353 million  , $  265 million   and $  290 million  , respectively. 
    
    7.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS 
  The Company maintains active defined contribution retirement plans for its employees (the "Benefit Plans"). All associates satisfying certain service requirements are eligible to participate in the Benefit Plans. The Company makes cash contributions each payroll period up to specified percentages of associates  contributions as approved by the Board of Directors. 
  The Company also maintains a restoration plan to provide certain associates deferred compensation that they would have received under the Benefit Plans as a matching contribution if not for the maximum compensation limits under the Internal Revenue Code. The Company funds the restoration plan through contributions made to a grantor trust, which are then used to purchase shares of the Company s common stock in the open market. 
  The Company s contributions to the Benefit Plans and the restoration plan were $  184 million  , $  182 million   and $  171 million   for fiscal   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , respectively. At   February 2, 2014  , the Benefit Plans and the restoration plan held a total of   11 million   shares of the Company s common stock in trust for plan participants.    
    
    8.  CHINA STORE CLOSINGS 
  In fiscal 2012, the Company closed its remaining seven big box stores in China. As a result of the closings, the Company recorded a total charge of   $145 million  , net of tax, in fiscal 2012. Inventory markdown costs of   $10 million   are included in Cost of Sales, and   $135 million   of costs related to the impairment of Goodwill and other assets, lease terminations, severance and other charges are included in SG A in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings.  
    
    9.  DEBT GUARANTEE  
  In connection with the sale of HD Supply, Inc. on   August 30, 2007  , the Company guaranteed a $  1.0 billion   senior secured amortizing term loan of HD Supply. The original expiration date of the guarantee was August 30, 2012. In March 2010, the Company amended the guarantee to extend the expiration date to April 1, 2014. The fair value of the guarantee at August 30, 2007 was   $16 million   and was recorded as a liability of the Company in Other Long-Term Liabilities. The extension of the guarantee increased the fair value of the guarantee to   $67 million  , resulting in a   $51 million   charge to Interest and Other, net, for fiscal 2010. In   April 2012  , the term loan guarantee was terminated. As a result, the Company reversed its   $67 million   liability related to the guarantee, resulting in a   $67 million   pretax benefit to Interest and Other, net, for fiscal 2012. 
    
    10.  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 
  The fair value of an asset is considered to be the price at which the asset could be sold in an orderly transaction between unrelated knowledgeable and willing parties. A liability s fair value is defined as the amount that would be paid to transfer the liability to a new obligor, rather than the amount that would be paid to settle the liability with the creditor. Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value are measured using a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value. These tiers include: 
                       
    Level 1 
      
    Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices in active markets 
        
    Level 2 
      
    Inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable 
        
    Level 3 
      
    Unobservable inputs in which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring the Company to develop its own assumptions 

48 

     Table of Contents  

   Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis 
  The assets and liabilities of the Company that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of   February 2, 2014   and   February 3, 2013   were as follows (amounts in millions): 

The Company uses derivative financial instruments from time to time in the management of its interest rate exposure on long-term debt and its exposure on foreign currency fluctuations. The fair value of the Company s derivative financial instruments was measured using level 2 inputs. The Company s derivative agreements are discussed further in Note 3. 
  Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis 
  Upon announcement in fiscal 2012 of its intention to close seven stores in China, the Company completed an assessment on the recoverability of Goodwill for its China reporting unit. The fair value of the China reporting unit was estimated using the present value of expected future discounted cash flows through unobservable inputs (level 3). As a result of this analysis, the Company recorded a   $97 million   impairment charge to Goodwill in fiscal 2012. See Note 8 for further discussion of the China store closings. 
  Long-lived assets, the remaining goodwill and other intangible assets were also analyzed for impairment on a nonrecurring basis using fair value measurements with unobservable inputs (level 3). Impairment charges related to long-lived assets, the remaining goodwill and other intangible assets in fiscal   2013   and   2012   were not material, as further discussed in Note 1 under the captions "Impairment of Long-Lived Assets" and "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," respectively. 
  The aggregate fair value of the Company s senior notes, based on quoted market prices, was $  15.6 billion   and $  12.2 billion   at   February 2, 2014   and   February 3, 2013  , respectively, compared to a carrying value of $  14.2 billion   and $  10.3 billion   at   February 2, 2014   and   February 3, 2013  , respectively. 
    
    11.  BASIC AND DILUTED WEIGHTED AVERAGE COMMON SHARES 
  The reconciliation of basic to diluted weighted average common shares for fiscal   2013  ,   2012   and   2011   was as follows (amounts in millions): 

Stock plans consist of shares granted under the Company s employee stock plans as described in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Options to purchase   1 million  ,   1 million   and   23 million   shares of common stock at   February 2, 2014  ,   February 3, 2013   and   January 29, 2012  , respectively, were excluded from the computation of Diluted Earnings per Share because their effect would have been anti-dilutive. 
    
     49 

       Table of Contents  

   12.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 
  At   February 2, 2014  , the Company was contingently liable for approximately   $372 million   under outstanding letters of credit and open accounts issued for certain business transactions, including insurance programs, trade contracts and construction contracts. The Company s letters of credit are primarily performance-based and are not based on changes in variable components, a liability or an equity security of the other party. 
  The Company is involved in litigation arising from the normal course of business. In management s opinion, this litigation is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 
    
    13.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED) 
  The following is a summary of the quarterly consolidated results of operations for the fiscal years ended   February 2, 2014   and   February 3, 2013   (amounts in millions, except per share data): 

Note: The quarterly data may not sum to fiscal year totals. 
        
      50 

       Table of Contents  

   Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. 
  Not applicable. 
    
    Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures. 
  Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
  The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the Company s Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to the Company s management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 
  The Company s management, with the participation of the Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, the Company s disclosure controls and procedures were effective. 
  Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
  A report of the Company s management on the Company s internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) and a report of KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting are incorporated by reference to Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this report. 
  There have not been any changes in the Company s internal control over financial reporting during the fiscal quarter ended   February 2, 2014   that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting. 
    
    Item 9B.  Other Information. 
  Not applicable. 
    
     51 

       Table of Contents  

   PART III 
    
    Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. 
  Information required by this item, other than the information regarding the executive officers of the Company set forth below, is incorporated by reference to the sections entitled "Election of Directors," "Board of Directors Information," "General" and "Audit Committee Report" in the Company s Proxy Statement for the   2014   Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the "Proxy Statement").  
  Executive officers of the Company are appointed by, and serve at the pleasure of, the Board of Directors. The current executive officers of the Company are as follows: 
  FRANCIS S. BLAKE, age 64, has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since January 2007. From March 2002 through January 2007, he served as the Company s Executive Vice President   Business Development and Corporate Operations. Mr. Blake previously served in a variety of executive positions with General Electric Company, a diversified energy, technology, media, transportation and financial services company, including as Senior Vice President, Corporate Business Development in charge of all worldwide mergers, acquisitions, dispositions and identification of strategic growth opportunities.  
  MATTHEW A. CAREY, age 49, has been Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer since September 2008. From January 2006 through August 2008, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer at eBay Inc., an online commerce platform. Mr. Carey was previously with Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., a general merchandise retailer, from June 1985 to December 2005. His final position with Wal-Mart was Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer. Mr. Carey serves as a director of Geeknet.com, a technology-oriented online media company. 
  TIMOTHY M. CROW, age 58, has been Executive Vice President   Human Resources since February 2007. From March 2005 through February 2007, he served as Senior Vice President   Human Resources, Organization, Talent and Performance Systems, and he served as Vice President   Human Resources, Performance Systems from May 2002 through March 2005. Mr. Crow previously served as Senior Vice President   Human Resources of K-Mart Corporation, a general merchandise retailer, from May 1999 through May 2002. 
  MARVIN R. ELLISON, age 49, has been Executive Vice President   U.S. Stores since August 2008. From January 2006 through August 2008, he served as President   Northern Division. From August 2005 through January 2006, he served as Senior Vice President   Logistics, and from October 2004 through August 2005 he served as Vice President   Logistics. From June 2002 through October 2004, he served as Vice President   Loss Prevention. From 1987 until June 2002, Mr. Ellison held various management and executive level positions with Target Corporation, a general merchandise retailer. His final position with Target was Director, Assets Protection. Mr. Ellison serves as a director of H R Block, Inc., a tax preparation company, and FedEx Corporation, a package delivery and business services company. 
  MARK Q. HOLIFIELD, age 57, has been Executive Vice President   Supply Chain and Product Development since February 2014. From July 2006 through February 2014, he served as Senior Vice President   Supply Chain. Mr. Holifield was previously with Office Depot, Inc., an office products and services company, from 1994 through July 2006, where he served in variety of supply chain management positions, including Executive Vice President of Supply Chain Management. 
  CRAIG A. MENEAR, age 56, has been President, U.S. Retail since February 2014. From April 2007 through February 2014, he served as Executive Vice President   Merchandising, and from August 2003 through April 2007, he served as Senior Vice President   Merchandising. From 1997 through August 2003, Mr. Menear served in various management and vice president level positions in the Company s Merchandising department, including Merchandising Vice President of Hardware, Merchandising Vice President of the Southwest Division, and Divisional Merchandise Manager of the Southwest Division. 
  TERESA WYNN ROSEBOROUGH, age 55, has been Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since November 2011. From April 2006 through November 2011, Ms. Roseborough served in several legal positions with MetLife, Inc., a provider of insurance and other financial services, including Senior Chief Counsel   Compliance   Litigation and most recently as Deputy General Counsel. Prior to joining MetLife, Ms. Roseborough was a partner with the law firm Sutherland Asbill   Brennan LLP from February 1996 through March 2006 and a Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the Office of Legal Counsel of the United States Department of Justice from January 1994 through February 1996.  
  CAROL B. TOM , age 57, has been Chief Financial Officer since May 2001 and Executive Vice President   Corporate Services since January 2007. Prior thereto, Ms. Tom  served as Senior Vice President   Finance and Accounting/Treasurer from February 2000 through May 2001 and as Vice President and Treasurer from 1995 through February 2000. From 1992  
     52 

     Table of Contents  

   until 1995, when she joined the Company, Ms. Tom  was Vice President and Treasurer of Riverwood International Corporation, a provider of paperboard packaging. Ms. Tom  serves as a director of United Parcel Service, Inc., a package delivery company. 
    
    Item 11.  Executive Compensation. 
  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the sections entitled "Executive Compensation," "Director Compensation" and "Leadership Development and Compensation Committee Report" in the Company s Proxy Statement. 
    
    Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 
  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the sections entitled "Beneficial Ownership of Common Stock" and "Executive Compensation   Equity Compensation Plan Information" in the Company s Proxy Statement. 
    
    Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. 
  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the sections entitled "Board of Directors Information" and "General" in the Company s Proxy Statement. 
    
    Item 14.  Principal Accountant Fees and Services. 
  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the section entitled "Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm s Fees" in the Company s Proxy Statement. 
    
     53 

       Table of Contents  

   PART IV 
    
    Item 15.  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. 
  (a)(1)    Financial Statements 
  The following financial statements are set forth in Item 8 hereof: 

Management s Responsibility for Financial Statements and Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting; and 
                
    Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 
                     
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements; 
       
  (2)    Financial Statement Schedules 
  All schedules are omitted as the required information is inapplicable or the information is presented in the consolidated financial statements or related notes. 
    
  (b)    Exhibits 
  Exhibits marked with an asterisk (*) are incorporated by reference to exhibits previously filed with the SEC, as indicated by the references in brackets. All other exhibits are filed or furnished herewith. Our Current, Quarterly and Annual Reports are filed with the SEC under File No. 1-8207. Our Registration Statements have the file numbers noted wherever such statements are identified in the following list of exhibits. The Company will furnish a copy of any exhibit to shareholders without charge upon written request to Investor Relations, The Home Depot, Inc., 2455 Paces Ferry Road, Atlanta, Georgia 30339, via the internet at http://ir.homedepot.com, or by calling Investor Relations at (770) 384-4388. 

54 

     Table of Contents  

55 

     Table of Contents  

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 
                
    Furnished (and not filed) herewith pursuant to Item 601(b)(32)(ii) of the SEC's Regulation S-K. 
       
     56 

       Table of Contents  

   SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
                   THE HOME DEPOT, INC. 
  (Registrant) 

By: 
      
    /s/ F  RANCIS   S. B  LAKE 

(Francis S. Blake, Chairman 
  and Chief Executive Officer) 
        
      Date: 
    March 26, 2014 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.   

     57 

       Table of Contents  

   Five-Year Summary of Financial and Operating Results 
  The Home Depot, Inc. and Subsidiaries 

(2) 
    Continuing operations only.  
              (3) 
    Includes Net Sales at locations open greater than 12 months, including relocated and remodeled stores and online sales, and excluding closed stores. Retail stores become comparable on the Monday following their 365   th    day of operation. Comparable store sales is intended only as supplemental information and is not a substitute for Net Sales or Net Earnings presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Net Sales for the 53   rd    week of fiscal 2012 are not included in comparable store sales results for fiscal 2012. 
       F-1 

       Table of Contents  

   INDEX OF ATTACHED EXHIBITS 
    
                 10.8      
    Amendment No. 1 to The Home Depot FutureBuilder Restoration Plan. 

10.10      
    The Home Depot, Inc. Amended and Restated Management Incentive Plan (Effective November 21, 2013).  

12 
    Statement of Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges. 

23 
    Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 

31.1 
    Certification of Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 

31.2 
    Certification of Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 

32.1      
    Certification of Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

32.2      
    Certification of Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

101 
    The following financial information from the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2014, formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language) and filed electronically herewith: (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheets; (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Earnings; (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income; (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity; (v) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows; and (vi) the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 
                
    Furnished (and not filed) herewith pursuant to Item 601(b)(32)(ii) of the SEC's Regulation S-K. 

<EX-10.8>
 2
 hd-222014xexx108.htm
 AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THD FUTUREBUILDER RESTORATION PLAN

HD-2.2.2014-EX-10.8 

Exhibit 10.8 

   AMENDMENT  
  TO  
  THE HOME DEPOT FUTUREBUILDER RESTORATION PLAN 
  (As Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2008) 
  THIS AMENDMENT to The Home Depot FutureBuilder Restoration Plan (the    Plan   ) is made as of the 23rd day of December 2013. 
    
  W I T N E S S E T H: 
    
  WHEREAS, The Home Depot, Inc. (the    Company   ) maintains the Plan for the purpose of providing additional retirement income to certain key employees of the Company and its subsidiaries in order to reduce the impact of certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the    Code   ), that limit the maximum benefits that may accrue under the Company s FutureBuilder 401(k) Plan (the    FutureBuilder Plan    and 
    
  WHEREAS, Section 8.1 of the Plan provides that the Company through action of the FutureBuilder Administrative Committee shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to amend the Plan in whole or in part at any time and from time to time; provided, the Administrative Committee may not amend the Plan to increase the level of benefits without approval of the Company s Board of Directors; and 
    
  WHEREAS, on June 26, 2013, the United States Supreme Court ruled, in United States v. Windsor, 133 S.Ct. 2675 (2013) (   Windsor   )   that Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act, which provides that for federal purposes marriage is between one man and one woman, is unconstitutional; 
    
  WHEREAS, the Internal Revenue Service and Department of Labor responded to the Supreme Court's Windsor decision with Revenue Ruling 2013-17 and Technical Release 2013-04, respectively, in which the agencies ruled that all same-sex marriages will be recognized for federal tax purposes if they are entered into under the laws of a state or foreign jurisdiction having the legal authority to sanction marriages, even if the couple resides in a state that does not recognize the validity of same-sex marriages; 
    
  WHEREAS, the FutureBuilder Plan (i) has been in operational compliance, and (ii) is being amended to be in documentary compliance with   Windsor   and Revenue Ruling 2013-17, in each case as of September 16, 2013; and 
    
  WHEREAS, the Administrative Committee desires to amend the definition of  Surviving Spouse  under the Plan to conform with the FutureBuilder Plan. 
    
  NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT: 
    
  RESOLVED, that, effective as of September 16, 2013, the definition of  Surviving Spouse,  set forth in Section 1.28 of the Plan, is hereby amended in its entirety, to read as follows: 
    
     Surviving Spouse   means, with respect to a Participant, the person of the same or opposite sex who is validly married to the Participant under the laws of the state or foreign jurisdiction where the marriage was performed.  The determination of a Participant s Surviving Spouse shall be made as of the date of such Participant s death.  
    
  FURTHER RESOLVED:      That each member of the Administrative Committee, and/or the Director, Benefits is hereby authorized and directed to take or cause to be taken all such further action as such individuals deem necessary or appropriate to carry out fully the intent of the foregoing resolution, and any and all actions taken and any and all documents, certificates or instruments executed and delivered on behalf of the Plan by the appropriate members of the Administrative Committee, or the Director, Benefits, to carry into effect the purposes and intent of the foregoing resolution are hereby ratified, confirmed, adopted and approved in all respects. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the members of the Administrative Committee have executed this Amendment on the date set forth below. 

</EX-10.8>

<EX-10.10>
 3
 hd-222014xexx1010.htm
 AMENDED AND RESTATED MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN

HD-2.2.2014-EX-10.10 

Exhibit 10.10 

THE HOME DEPOT  
  AMENDED AND RESTATED 
  MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN 
    
           1. 
    Purpose  .  The purpose of The Home Depot Amended and Restated Management Incentive Plan is to advance the interests of The Home Depot, Inc. and its shareholders by motivating key associates of the Company to take actions that will promote the Company s long-term success and growth.  The Plan is designed to provide incentive compensation to key associates by rewarding the achievement of corporate goals and specifically measured individual goals that are consistent with and support overall corporate goals. 
       
  2.        Definitions 
    
           (a) 
       Award    means an award entitling a Participant to receive incentive compensation subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan. 
       
           (b) 
       Board    means the Company s Board of Directors. 
       
           (a) 
       Code    means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 
       
           (b) 
       Committee    means the Leadership Development and Compensation Committee of the Board. 
       
           (c) 
       Common Stock    means shares of the Common Stock, $0.05 par value per share, of the Company. 
       
           (d) 
       Company    means The Home Depot, Inc., a Delaware corporation. 
       
           (e) 
       Disability    means, with respect to a Participant, the Participant s becoming eligible for permanent and total disability benefits under the Company s or a Subsidiary s long-term disability plan. 
       
           (f) 
       Executive Officer    means a Participant who (i) is an executive officer of the Company and (ii) may be a  covered employee  as that term is defined in Code Section 162(m)(3).  
       
           (g) 
       Fair Market Value    means the closing price for the Common Stock reported on a consolidated basis on the New York Stock Exchange on the relevant date or, if no sale occurred on such date, the closing price on the nearest preceding date on which sales occurred. 
       
           (h) 
       Participant    means a key employee of the Company or a Subsidiary who is selected by the Committee to participate in the Plan. 
       
           (i) 
       Performance Objectives    means the performance objectives established pursuant to this Plan for Participants who have received Awards.  Performance Objectives may be described in terms of Company-wide objectives or objectives that are related to the performance of the individual Participant or the Subsidiary, division, department or function within the Company or Subsidiary in which the Participant is employed.  Any Performance Objectives applicable to a Qualified Performance-Based Award shall be limited to specified levels of the Company s or Subsidiary s following metrics:  (1)   Financial Return Metrics  : (a) return on equity; (b) return on capital; (c) return on assets; (d) return on investment; and (2)   Earnings Metrics  : (a) earnings per share; (b) total earnings; (c) earnings growth; (d) earnings before or after interest and taxes; (e) earnings before taxes; (f) earnings before or after interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization; (g) operating profit; (h) net income; and (3)   Sales Metrics  :  (a) total sales; (b) sales growth; (c) comparable store sales; (d) sales per square foot; (e) average ticket sales; (f) sales per operating store; and (4)   Stock Price Metrics  : (a) increase in the fair market value of the Common Stock; (b) total return to shareholders; and (5)   Cash Flow Metrics  :   (a) cash flow; (b) operating cash flow; (c) free cash flow; (d) cash flow return on investment; and (6)  

Store Metrics  : (a) inventory shrinkage goals; (b) stocking and other labor hours goals; (c) store payroll goals; (e) markdown goals; (f) workers  compensation goals; and (7)   Balance Sheet Metrics  : (a) inventory; (b) inventory turns; (c) receivables turnover; and (8)   Other Strategic Metrics  :   (a) gross margin; (b) gross margin return on investment; (c) market share or market penetration with respect to specific designated products or product groups and/or specific geographic areas; (d) timely and successful completion of key Company projects (including, for example, timely completion within budget); (e) economic value added (EVA); (f) internal rate of return; (g) net present value targets; (h) expense or cost level targets; (i) Employer of Choice survey results; (j) customer satisfaction based on specified objective goals or a Company-sponsored customer survey; (k) diversity goals; (l) attrition improvements; (m) productivity improvements; (n) operating cost management targets; and (o) safety record goals. Except in the case of a Qualified Performance-Based Award, if the Committee determines that a change in the business, operations, corporate structure or capital structure of the Company, or the manner in which it conducts its business, or other events or circumstances render the Performance Objectives unsuitable, the Committee may modify such Performance Objectives or the related minimum acceptable level of achievement, in whole or in part, as the Committee deems appropriate and equitable.   
    
           (j) 
       Performance Target    means a target level of performance, based on one or more Performance Objectives, established for a Performance Period in accordance with Section 5. 
       
           (k) 
       Performance Period    means a period coinciding with the Company s fiscal year for accounting purposes, or such longer or shorter period of not less than three months as determined by the Committee at the time an Award is made, which shall be used for purposes of determining whether Awards are earned by Participants.   
       
           (l) 
       Plan    means The Home Depot Amended and Restated Management Incentive Plan, as stated herein, and as amended from time to time. 
       
           (m) 
       Qualified Performance-Based Award    means an Award or portion of an Award to an Executive Officer that is intended to satisfy the requirements for  qualified performance-based compensation  under Code Section 162(m).   
       
           (n) 
       Retirement    means termination of employment with the Company or a Subsidiary after completing at least 5 years of continuous employment and attaining age 60. 
       
           (o) 
       Subsidiary    means a corporation or other entity (i) more than fifty percent (50%) of whose outstanding shares or securities (representing the right to vote for the election of directors or other managing authority) are, or (ii) which does not have outstanding shares or securities (as may be the case in a partnership, joint venture or unincorporated association), but more than fifty percent (50%) of whose ownership interest (representing the right generally to make decisions for such other entity) is, now or hereafter owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the Company. 
       
           3. 
    Participation  .  For each Performance Period, the Committee shall designate those key employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries who shall receive Awards under the Plan.  Selection for participation for one Performance Period shall not confer on a Participant the right to participate in the Plan for any other Performance Period. 
       
           4. 
    Awards  .  For each Performance Period, each Participant shall receive an Award entitling the Participant to receive cash incentive compensation upon the attainment of one or more Performance Targets.  The Committee may establish different terms for Awards for different Participants or groups of Participants.  The amount of compensation payable under an Award may be stated as a dollar amount or as a percentage of the Participant s base compensation.  The Committee may provide for a threshold level of performance below which no amount of compensation will be paid and a maximum level of performance above which no additional amount of  

compensation will be paid, and it may provide for the payment of differing amounts of compensation for different levels of performance.  
    
           5. 
    Establishment of Performance Targets  .  Within the first ninety (90) days of each Performance Period (or such shorter period not to exceed 25% of the Performance Period), the Committee shall establish one or more Performance Targets for that Performance Period.  Each Performance Target shall be specified as a percentage change in or attainment of a specific level of a Performance Objective for the Performance Period. The Committee may provide in any Award that is intended to be a Qualified Performance-Based Award, at the time such Performance Target(s) are established, that any evaluation of performance shall exclude or otherwise objectively adjust for any specified circumstance or event that occurs during a Performance Period.  To the extent such inclusions or exclusions affect Awards that are intended to be Qualified Performance-Based Awards, they shall be prescribed in a form that meets the requirements of Code Section 162(m). 
       
           6. 
    Payment of Awards  .  Within sixty (60) days following the end of each Performance Period, but in no event later than two and one-half months following the end of the Company s fiscal year in which a Performance Period ends, the Committee shall determine whether and to what extent the Performance Targets for such Performance Period have been satisfied and shall certify its determination in approved minutes of a Committee meeting held for such purpose or in another resolution approved by the Committee and maintained in its records.  Subject to the Committee s ability to exercise discretion as set forth in this Section 6, if the Committee certifies that one or more Performance Targets for a Performance Period have been achieved, all compensation payable in respect of Awards subject to such Performance Target shall be paid to Participants as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, but in no event later than two and one-half months following the end of the Company s fiscal year in which such Performance Period ends; provided, however, that the Committee may permit the deferral of such compensation, to the extent permissible under the terms of a deferred compensation plan of the Company or a Subsidiary.  If a Performance Target for a Performance Period is not achieved, the Committee in its sole discretion may determine that all or a portion of any Award shall be deemed to be earned based on such criteria as the Committee deems appropriate, including without limitation individual performance or the performance of the Subsidiary or business division employing the Participant; provided, however, that the Committee shall not have such discretion with respect to any Qualified Performance-Based Award.  The Committee shall have the right to exercise negative discretion at any time to determine that all or a portion of any Award actually earned and/or payable shall be less than the amount that would be earned and/or payable based solely upon application of the relevant Performance Targets.  No reduction in an Award payable to any Participant shall increase the amount of a payment to any other Participant.  Any Award that is not considered earned in accordance with this Section shall be forfeited. 
       
           7. 
    Partial Years of Participation  . The Committee may establish rules and procedures for partial periods of participation consistent with the following:   
       
           (a) 
    Employment Termination.    If a Participant terminates employment with the Company before payment of Awards is made for a Performance Period for reasons other than death, Disability or Retirement, any Award granted to the Participant in respect of that Performance Period shall be forfeited and cancelled.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant whose employment terminates during a Performance Period for reasons other than death, Disability or Retirement may, at the discretion of the Committee  and under such rules as the Committee  may prescribe, be eligible for consideration for a full Award or a pro-rata Award based on the period of active employment during the Performance Period; provided, however, that in the case of an Award intended to be a Qualified Performance-Based Award, the ability to earn any portion of the Award shall be contingent on attainment of the applicable Performance Targets for such Performance Period.  
       
           (b) 
    New Hires.    In the case of an associate who is hired by the Company or a Subsidiary after the beginning of a Performance Period, the Committee may in its discretion designate such associate as a Participant in the Plan for that Performance Period, provided that the Committee may specify that such a Participant s Award shall be determined only with respect to the portion of the Performance Period  

during which the Participant is employed by the Company or Subsidiary in the eligible position.  To the extent that such partial-period participation would not qualify as a Qualified Performance-Based Award for an Executive Officer, the award shall not be treated as a Qualified Performance-Based Award. 
    
           (c) 
    Death, Disability or Retirement.    A Participant whose employment terminates during a Performance Period because of death or Disability may, at the discretion of the Committee and under such rules as the Committee may from time to time prescribe, be eligible for consideration for a pro-rata Award based on the period of active employment during the Performance Period.  A Participant whose employment terminates during a Performance Period due to Retirement, may, at the discretion of the Committee and under such rules as the Committee may from time to time prescribe, be eligible for consideration for a pro-rata Award based on the period of active employment during the Performance Period; provided, however, that in the case of an Award intended to be a Qualified Performance-Based Award, the ability to earn any portion of the Award shall be contingent on attainment of the applicable Performance Targets for such Performance Period. 
       
           (d) 
    Promotions and Transfers.    A Participant who is transferred to a non-exempt, hourly or other ineligible position during a Performance Period shall forfeit any Award granted to the Participant in respect of that Performance Period.  An employee who is promoted to an eligible position, or a Participant who is transferred from one eligible position to another, during a Performance Period, may, at the discretion of the Committee and under such rules as the Committee may from time to time prescribe, be eligible for consideration for a pro-rata Award based on the period in the eligible position or each eligible position during the Performance Period.  To the extent that any such pro-rata Award would not qualify as a Qualified Performance-Based Award for an Executive Officer, the Award shall not be treated as a Qualified Performance-Based Award.  
       
           (e) 
    Leave of Absence.   A Participant who is on a leave of absence (other than a personal leave) for more than ninety (90) consecutive days during a Performance Period, or who is on a personal leave of absence for more than thirty (30) consecutive days, shall forfeit any portion of an Award attributable to that period of leave pursuant to such rules as the Committee may establish. 
       
           8. 
    Maximum Amount of Qualified Performance-Based Awards  .   
       
           (a) 
    Per Fiscal Year.    The maximum dollar amount of compensation that may be paid to any one Participant in respect of Qualified Performance-Based Awards in a single fiscal year of the Company shall not exceed the lesser of (i) $15 million or (ii) three tenths of one percent (0.3%) of the Company s net income for such fiscal year. For example, for a Qualified Performance-Based Award with a Performance Period consisting of more than one fiscal year, the maximum compensation that may be paid to any one Participant with respect to such award shall not exceed the lesser of (i) $15 million multiplied by the number of years in the Performance Period, or (ii) three tenths of one percent (0.3%) of the Company s lowest net income for any fiscal year in the Performance Period (less any amount paid or payable with respect to other Qualified Performance-Based Awards granted to such Participant under the Plan and covering all or a portion of the same fiscal year or years, such as in overlapping annual awards).   
       
           (b) 
    Partial Fiscal Year Performance Period  .  For any Performance Period, or portion thereof, that is shorter than one fiscal year, the same maximum annual limits set forth in Section 8(a) shall apply  (less any amount paid or payable with respect to other Qualified Performance-Based Awards granted to such Participant under the Plan and covering all or a portion of the same fiscal year).  For example, for a Qualified Performance-Based Award with a Performance Period of six (6) months duration, the maximum compensation that may be paid to any one Participant shall be the lesser of (i) $15 million or (ii) three tenths of one percent (0.3%) of the Company s net income for the fiscal year in which such Performance Period ends (less any amount paid or payable with respect to other Qualified  

Performance-Based Awards granted to such Participant and covering all or a portion of the same fiscal year).   
    
           9. 
    Adjustments  .  To the extent that a Performance Target is based on an increase in the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock, in the event of any stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares, recapitalization or other change in the capital structure of the Company, any merger, consolidation, spin-off, reorganization, partial or complete liquidation or other distribution of assets (other than a normal cash dividend), issuance of rights or warrants to purchase securities or any other corporate transaction having an effect on the value of the Common Stock similar to any of the foregoing, then the Committee shall make or provide for such adjustments in such Performance Target as the Committee in its sole discretion shall in good faith determine to be equitably required in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the rights of Participants.   
       
           10. 
    Tax Withholding  .  The Company shall be entitled to withhold from any payment made under the Plan the full amount of any federal, state or local taxes required to be withheld.   
       
           11. 
    Code Section 409A Provisions  .  To the extent applicable, it is intended that the Plan comply with or be exempt from the requirements of Code Section 409A and any related regulations or other guidance promulgated thereunder.  Accordingly, to the maximum extent permitted, the Plan shall be interpreted and administered to be in compliance with Code Section 409A and if any provision of the Plan or any term or condition of any Award would otherwise conflict with this intent, the provision, term or condition will be interpreted or deemed amended so as to avoid this conflict.  Any reservation of rights or any discretion reserved to the Committee or the Company regarding the timing of a payment of any Award subject to Code Section 409A will only be as broad as is permitted by Code Section 409A. Notwithstanding anything herein, or in an Award document to the contrary, to the extent required in order to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A, amounts that would otherwise be payable to a Participant during the six-month period immediately following the Participant s separation from service (within the meaning of Code Section 409A) shall instead be paid on the first business day after the date that is six (6) months following the Participant s separation from service (or death, if earlier).  Each amount to be paid to a Participant pursuant to the Plan or any Award shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Code Section 409A.   
       
           12. 
    Nontransferability of Benefits  .  A Participant may not assign or transfer any interest in an Award.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon the death of a Participant, the Participant s rights and benefits under the Plan shall pass by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. 
       
           13. 
    Administration, Interpretation and Delegation  .  Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have complete authority to interpret the Plan, to prescribe rules and requirements relating to it, and to make all determinations necessary or advisable in the administration of the Plan.  The interpretation and construction by the Committee of any provision of this Plan and any determination by the Committee pursuant to any provision of this Plan, Award, notification or other documentation, shall be final and conclusive.  No member of the Committee shall be liable to any person for any action taken or determination made in good faith.  The Committee may delegate to one or more officers of the Company the authority to exercise the rights of the Committee set forth in this Plan with respect to any Participant who is not an Executive Officer. 
       
           14. 
    Amendment and Termination of Plan  .  The Committee may at any time terminate the Plan and may at any time and from time to time amend or modify the Plan in any respect, including, without limitation, the amending or altering of the Plan as may be required to comply with or conform to any federal, state or local laws or regulations; provided, however, that no amendment shall be effective without approval of the shareholders of the Company if the amendment would increase the maximum amount of compensation payable to a Participant in any Performance Period pursuant to Qualified Performance-Based Awards as specified in Section 8.  Neither the termination of the Plan nor any amendment to the Plan shall reduce benefits accruing under Awards granted prior the date of such termination or amendment.  

15. 
    Governing Law  .  The Plan shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Georgia.  As a condition to eligibility to receive an Award under the Plan, each Participant irrevocably consents to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the State of Georgia and of any federal court located in the Northern District of Georgia in connection with any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Plan, any document or instrument delivered pursuant to or in connection with this Plan, or any alleged breach of this Plan or any such document or instrument. 
       
           16. 
    Effective Date  .  The Home Depot Amended and Restated Management Incentive Plan is effective November 21, 2013 upon its approval by the Committee; provided, however, that for purposes of Code Section 162(m), the material terms of the performance goals for Qualified Performance-Based Awards under the Plan were most recently approved by shareholders on May 23, 2013. 
       
           17. 
    Offsets and Clawbacks  .  As a condition to eligibility for an Award, each Participant consents to the deduction from the Award of any amounts owed by the Participant to the Company to the extent permitted by applicable law.  In addition, in consideration of any Award granted under this Plan, each Participant agrees that all Awards are subject to applicable clawback policies that may be adopted by the Committee from time to time. 
       
           18. 
    No Rights to Continued Employment  .  -Participation in the Plan does not create or constitute an express or implied employment contract between the Company and the Participant -nor limit the right of the Company to discharge or otherwise deal with a Participant without regard to the existence of the Plan.   
       
           19. 
    Unfunded Plan  .  The Plan shall at all times be an unfunded payroll practice and no provision shall at any time be made with respect to segregating assets of the Company for payment of any Award.  No Participant or any other person shall have any interest in any particular assets of the Company by reason of the right to receive an Award under the Plan and any such Participant or any other person shall have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor of the Company. 
       
           20. 
    Limitations Period For Claims  .  Any person who believes he or she is being denied any benefit or right under the Plan may file a written claim with the Committee.  Any claim must be delivered to the Committee within forty-five (45) days of the later of the end of the Performance Period to which the claim relates or the specific event giving rise to the claim. Untimely claims will not be processed and shall be deemed denied.  The Committee, or its designated agent, will notify the Participant of its decision in writing as soon as administratively practicable.  Claims not responded to by the Committee in writing within ninety (90) days of the date the written claim is delivered to the Committee shall be deemed denied. The Committee s decision is final and conclusive and binding on all persons.  No lawsuit relating to the Plan may be filed before a written claim is filed with the Committee and is denied or deemed denied and any lawsuit must be filed within one year of such denial or deemed denial or be forever barred.  

</EX-10.10>

<EX-12>
 4
 hd-222014xexx12.htm
 STATEMENT OF COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

HD-2.2.2014-EX-12 

Exhibit 12 
    
  THE HOME DEPOT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  STATEMENT OF COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 
  (amounts in millions, except ratio data) 

(2) 
    For purposes of computing the ratios of earnings to fixed charges,  earnings  consist of earnings from continuing operations before income taxes plus fixed charges, excluding capitalized interest.  Fixed charges  consist of interest incurred on indebtedness including capitalized interest, amortization of debt expenses and the portion of rental expense under operating leases deemed to be the equivalent of interest. The ratios of earnings to fixed charges are calculated as follows:  
     (earnings from continuing operations before income taxes) + (fixed charges) - (capitalized interest) 
  (fixed charges)  

</EX-12>

<EX-23>
 5
 hd-222014xexx23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

HD-2.2.2014-EX-23 

Exhibit 23 
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
  The Board of Directors 
  The Home Depot, Inc.: 
    
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (Nos. 333-178933, 333-183621) on Form S-3 and (Nos. 333-61733, 333-38946, 333-151849, 333-182374, 333-56722, 333-125331, 333-153171, 333-125332) on Form S-8 of The Home Depot, Inc. of our reports dated   March 27, 2014  , with respect to the Consolidated Balance Sheets of The Home Depot, Inc. and subsidiaries as of   February 2, 2014   and   February 3, 2013  , and the related Consolidated Statements of Earnings, Comprehensive Income, Stockholders' Equity, and Cash Flows for each of the fiscal years in the three-year period ended   February 2, 2014  , and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of   February 2, 2014  , which reports appear in the   February 2, 2014   annual report on Form 10-K of The Home Depot, Inc. 
  /s/ KPMG LLP 
    
  Atlanta, Georgia 
  March 27, 2014    

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 hd-222014xexx311.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF THE CEO

HD-2.2.2014-EX-31.1 

Exhibit 31.1  
  CERTIFICATION  
  I, Francis S. Blake, certify that:  

1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Home Depot, Inc.; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
       
           a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 
       
           5. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
       
           a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 
       
                 Date: 
    March 26, 2014 

/  S  / F  RANCIS   S. B  LAKE 
      Francis S. Blake 
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 hd-222014xexx312.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF THE CFO

HD-2.2.2014-EX-31.2 

Exhibit 31.2  
  CERTIFICATION  
  I, Carol B. Tom , certify that:  

1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Home Depot, Inc.; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
       
           a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 
       
           5. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
       
           a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 
       
                 Date: 
    March 26, 2014 

/  S  / C  AROL   B. T  OM  
      Carol B. Tom  
  Chief Financial Officer and 
  Executive Vice President   Corporate 
  Services 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 hd-222014xexx321.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE CEO

HD-2.2.2014-EX-32.1 

Exhibit 32.1  
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO  
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350  
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO  
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  
  In connection with the Annual Report of The Home Depot, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K ( Form 10-K ) for the period ended   February 2, 2014   as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, I, Francis S. Blake, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge:  

(2) 
    The information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 
       
               /  S  / F  RANCIS   S. B  LAKE 
      Francis S. Blake 
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
        
      March 26, 2014 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 9
 hd-222014xexx322.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE CFO

HD-2.2.2014-EX-32.2 

Exhibit 32.2  
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO  
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350  
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO  
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  
  In connection with the Annual Report of The Home Depot, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K ( Form 10-K ) for the period ended   February 2, 2014   as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, I, Carol B. Tom , Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President - Corporate Services of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge:  

(2) 
    The information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 
       
               /  S  / C  AROL   B. T  OM  
      Carol B. Tom  
  Chief Financial Officer and 
  Executive Vice President   Corporate Services 
      March 26, 2014 

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 10
 hd-20140202.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 11
 hd-20140202.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 12
 hd-20140202_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 13
 hd-20140202_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 14
 hd-20140202_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 15
 hd-20140202_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

