<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080226_10-K_edgar_data_200406_0000950123-08-002130_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1395874</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>258056</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>107713</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>670755</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>99</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>10</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-08-002130.hdr.sgml : 20080226
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080226163942
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-08-002130
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		21
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20071230
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080226
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080226

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			JOHNSON & JOHNSON
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000200406
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				221024240
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NJ
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0114

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-03215
		FILM NUMBER:		08643345

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE JOHNSON & JOHNSON PLZ
		CITY:			NEW BRUNSWICK
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			08933
		BUSINESS PHONE:		732-524-2455

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE JOHNSON & JOHNSON PLZ
		CITY:			NEW BRUNSWICK
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			08933

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 LpCbSsu9KkJlBUbes8LPGCVSiqn1JEZngf7lZm2GxH5d3l149FgWfJuUci3sokci
 d9RXYYXaEFwKoXh0YI50fQ==

 0000950123-08-002130.txt : 20080226

10-K
 1
 y47910e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

10-K 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
    COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C.
    20549  

FORM
     10-K   

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO
    SECTION 13 OF  

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
    1934  

JOHNSON  
    JOHNSON  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)

New Jersey 

22-1024240 

(State of incorporation)

(I.R.S. Employer Identification
    No.) 

One Johnson   Johnson Plaza 
    New Brunswick, New Jersey 

08933 

(Address of principal executive
    offices)

(Zip Code) 

Registrant s telephone number, including area code:
     (732)
     524-0400  

SECURITIES
    REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT  

Title of each class 

Name of each exchange on which registered 

Common Stock, Par Value $1.00

New York Stock Exchange 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes      No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange
    Act.  Yes      No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Exchange Act during the preceding 12 months (or for such
    shorter period that the registrant was required to file such
    reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
    requirements for the past 90
    days.  Yes      No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained
    herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
    registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
    statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
    Form 10-K or any amendment to this
    Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company (as defined in
    Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).

Large
    accelerated
    filer          Accelerated
    filer          Non-accelerated
    filer          Smaller
    reporting
    company     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
    Act).  Yes      No   

The aggregate market value of the Common Stock held by
    non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the
    Common Stock was last sold as of the last business day of the
    registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter
    was approximately $178 billion.

On February 15, 2008 there were 2,832,602,429 shares
    of Common Stock outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Parts I, II and III:

Portions of registrant s annual report to shareholders for
    fiscal year 2007 (the  Annual Report ).

Parts I and III:

Portions of registrant s proxy statement for its 2008
    annual meeting of shareholders filed within 120 days after the
    close of the registrant s fiscal year (the  Proxy
    Statement ).

Item 

Page 

PART I  

1. 

Business 

1

General 

1

Segments of Business 

1

Geographic Areas 

2

Raw Materials 

2

Patents and Trademarks 

2

Seasonality 

3

Competition 

3

Research and Development 

3

Environment 

3

Regulation 

3

Available Information 

4

1A. 

Risk Factors 

4

1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

4

2. 

Properties 

4

3. 

Legal Proceedings 

5

4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders 

5

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

5

PART II  

5. 

Market for the Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities 

7

6. 

Selected Financial Data 

8

7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operation 

8

7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk 

8

8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

8

9. 

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

9

9A. 

Controls and Procedures 

9

9B. 

Other Information 

9

PART III  

10. 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance 

10

11. 

Executive Compensation 

10

12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

10

13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
    and Director Independence 

11

14. 

Principal Accounting Fees and Services 

11

PART IV  

15. 

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 

12

Schedule II   Valuation and
    Qualifying Accounts 

13

Signatures 

14

Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm on Financial Statement Schedule 

16

Exhibit Index 

17

EX-10.R: SUMMARY OF COMPENSATION ARRANGEMENTS FOR NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS    
     EX-12: STATEMENT OF COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES    
     EX-13: PAGES 36 THROUGH 77 OF THE COMPANY'S ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS    
     EX-21: SUBSIDIARIES    
     EX-23: CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP    
     EX-31.A: CERTIFICATION    
     EX-31.B: CERTIFICATION    
     EX-32.A: CERTIFICATION    
     EX-32.B: CERTIFICATION    
     EX-99: CAUTIONARY STATEMENT    

Table of Contents   

PART
    I  

Item
    1.  BUSINESS  

General  

Johnson   Johnson and its subsidiaries have
    approximately 119,200 employees worldwide engaged in the
    research and development, manufacture and sale of a broad range
    of products in the health care field. Johnson  
    Johnson is a holding company, which has more than 250 operating
    companies conducting business in virtually all countries of the
    world. Johnson   Johnson s primary focus has been
    on products related to human health and well-being.
    Johnson   Johnson was incorporated in the State of New
    Jersey in 1887.

The Company s structure is based on the principle of
    decentralized management. The Executive Committee of
    Johnson   Johnson is the principal management group
    responsible for the operations and allocation of the resources
    of the Company. This Committee oversees and coordinates the
    activities of the Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices
    and Diagnostics business segments. Each subsidiary within the
    business segments is, with some exceptions, managed by citizens
    of the country where it is located.

Segments
    of Business  

Johnson   Johnson s operating companies are
    organized into three business segments: Consumer, Pharmaceutical
    and Medical Devices and Diagnostics. Additional information
    required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the
    narrative and tabular (but not the graphic) descriptions of
    segments and operating results under the captions
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Results of
    Operations and Financial Condition  on pages 36
    through 47 and Note 11  Segments of Business and
    Geographic Areas  under  Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements  on page 59 of the Annual Report,
    filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on Form 10-K.

Consumer   

The Consumer segment includes a broad range of products used in
    the baby care, skin care, oral care, wound care and
    women s health care fields, as well as nutritional and
    over-the-counter pharmaceutical products. Major brands include
    AVEENO   
    skin care products;
    BAND-AID   
    Brand Adhesive Bandages;
    CAREFREE   
    Pantiliners; CLEAN  
    CLEAR   
    teen skin care products;
    JOHNSON S   
    Baby and Adult lines of products;
    LISTERINE   
    oral care products;
    MOTRIN   
    IB ibuprofen products;
    NEUTROGENA   
    skin and hair care products;
    RoC   
    skin care products;
    PEPCID   
    AC Acid Controller from Johnson  
    Johnson   Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Co.;
    REMBRANDT   
    Brand of oral care products;
    SPLENDA   
    No Calorie Sweetener;
    STAYFREE   
    sanitary protection products;
    SUDAFED   
    cold, flu and allergy products; the broad family of
    TYLENOL   
    acetaminophen products and Vend me skin care product lines.
    These products are marketed principally to the general public
    and sold both to wholesalers and directly to independent and
    chain retail outlets throughout the world.

Pharmaceutical   

The Pharmaceutical segment includes products in the following
    therapeutic areas: anti-infective, antipsychotic,
    cardiovascular, contraceptive, dermatology, gastrointestinal,
    hematology, immunology, neurology, oncology, pain management,
    urology and virology. These products are distributed directly to
    retailers, wholesalers and health care professionals for
    prescription use by the general public. Key products in the
    Pharmaceutical segment include:
    RISPERDAL   
    oral (risperidone),  a medication that treats the symptoms of
    schizophrenia, bipolar mania and irritability associated with
    autistic behavior in indicated patients,
    RISPERDAL   
    CONSTA   
    (risperidone), a long-acting injectable, and
    INVEGA TM 
    (paliperdone) Extended-Release tablets, for the treatment of
    schizophrenia;
    REMICADE   
    (infliximab), a biologic approved for the treatment of
    Crohn s disease, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriasis,
    psoriatic arthritis, ulcerative colitis, and use in the
    treatment of rheumatoid arthritis;
    PROCRIT   
    (Epoetin alfa, sold outside the U.S. as
    EPREX   ),
    a
     biotechnology-derived 
    product that stimulates red blood cell production;
    TOPAMAX   
    (topiramate), approved for adjunctive and monotherapy use in
    epilepsy, as well as for the prophylactic treatment of migranes;
    LEVAQUIN   
    (levofloxacin) and
    FLOXIN   
    (ofloxacin), both in the anti-infective field;
    ACIPHEX   /PARIET   ,
    a proton pump inhibitor co-marketed with Eisai Inc.
    DURAGESIC   /Fentanyl
    Transdermal (fentanyl transdermal system, sold outside the U.S.
    as
    DUROGESIC   ),
    a treatment for chronic pain that offers a novel delivery
    system;
    CONCERTA   
    (methylphenidate HCl), a product for the treatment of attention
    deficit hyperactivity disorder; and ORTHO
    EVRA   

Table of Contents   

(norelgestromin/ethinyl estradiol transdermal system), the first
    contraceptive patch approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
    Administration ( FDA ).

Medical
    Devices and Diagnostics   

The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment includes a broad
    range of products distributed to wholesalers, hospitals and
    retailers, used principally in the professional fields by
    physicians, nurses, therapists, hospitals, diagnostic
    laboratories and clinics. These products include Cordis 
    circulatory disease management products; DePuy s
    orthopaedic joint reconstruction and spinal care products;
    Ethicon s wound care and women s health products;
    Ethicon Endo-Surgery s minimally invasive surgical
    products; LifeScan s blood glucose monitoring and insulin
    delivery products; Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics  professional
    diagnostic products and Vision Care s disposable contact
    lenses. Distribution to these health care professional markets
    is done both directly and through surgical supply and other
    dealers.

Geographic
    Areas  

The international business of Johnson   Johnson is
    conducted by subsidiaries located in 56 countries outside the
    United States, which are selling products in virtually all
    countries throughout the world. The products made and sold in
    the international business include many of those described above
    under    Segments of Business  
    Consumer,     Pharmaceutical  and
       Medical Devices and Diagnostics. 
    However, the principal markets, products and methods of
    distribution in the international business vary with the country
    and the culture. The products sold in international business
    include not only those developed in the United States, but also
    those developed by subsidiaries abroad.

Investments and activities in some countries outside the United
    States are subject to higher risks than comparable U.S.
    activities because the investment and commercial climate is
    influenced by restrictive economic policies and political
    uncertainties.

Raw
    Materials  

Raw materials essential to Johnson   Johnson s
    operating companies  businesses are generally readily
    available from multiple sources.

Patents
    and Trademarks  

Johnson   Johnson and its operating companies have made a
    practice of obtaining patent protection on their products and
    processes where possible. They own or are licensed under a
    number of patents relating to its products and manufacturing
    processes, which in the aggregate are believed to be of material
    importance to Johnson   Johnson in the operation of its
    businesses. Sales of the Company s two largest products,
    RISPERDAL   
    and
    REMICADE   ,
    accounted for approximately 6% and 5% of Johnson  
    Johnson s total revenues, respectively, for fiscal 2007.
    Accordingly, the patents related to these products are believed
    to be material to Johnson   Johnson as a whole.

During 2004 through 2006,
    DURAGESIC   /Fentanyl
    Transdermal (fentanyl transdermal system) lost its basic patent
    protection and is subject to generic competition in the United
    States and certain international markets, and the basic patents
    covering
    EPREX   
    (Epoetin alfa) have expired and increased biosimilar competition
    in international markets is expected.
    DURAGESIC   /Fentanyl
    Transdermal sales declined by 10.1% to $1.2 billion in 2007
    as compared to 2006, due to the impact of generic competition.
    Combined sales of
    DURAGESIC   /Fentanyl
    Transdermal and
    EPREX   
    accounted for approximately 4% of Johnson  
    Johnson s worldwide sales in 2007. The material patents
    that expired in 2007 or will expire in 2008 are related to
    RISPERDAL   ,
    which expired in the United States in December 2007, and
    TOPAMAX   ,
    which is scheduled to expire in the United States in September
    2008. The Company has received a pediatric extension for
    RISPERDAL   
    oral from the FDA, which grants market exclusivity in the United
    States through June 2008. The Company is on target to file for a
    pediatric extension for
    TOPAMAX   ,
    which, if obtained from the FDA, would grant market exclusivity
    in the United States until March 2009.

2

Table of Contents   

Johnson   Johnson s operating companies have made a
    practice of selling their products under trademarks and of
    obtaining protection for these trademarks by all available
    means. These trademarks are protected by registration in the
    United States and other countries where such products are
    marketed. Johnson   Johnson considers these trademarks in
    the aggregate to be of material importance in the operation of
    its businesses.

Seasonality  

Worldwide sales do not reflect any significant degree of
    seasonality; however, spending has been heavier in the fourth
    quarter of each year than in other quarters. This reflects
    increased spending decisions, principally for advertising and
    research and development activity.

Competition  

In all of their product lines, Johnson   Johnson s
    operating companies compete with companies both large and small,
    located throughout the world. Competition is strong in all
    product lines without regard to the number and size of the
    competing companies involved. Competition in research, involving
    the development and the improvement of new and existing products
    and processes, is particularly significant. The development of
    new and improved products is important to Johnson  
    Johnson s success in all areas of its businesses. This also
    includes protecting the Company s portfolio of intellectual
    property. The competitive environment requires substantial
    investments in continuing research and multiple sales forces. In
    addition, the development and maintenance of customer acceptance
    of the products of Johnson   Johnson s consumer
    businesses involves significant expenditures for advertising and
    promotion.

Research
    and Development  

Research activities represent a significant part of Johnson
      Johnson s subsidiaries  businesses. Major
    research facilities are located not only in the United States
    but also in Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, France,
    Germany, India, Japan, the Netherlands, Singapore and the United
    Kingdom. The costs of worldwide Company-sponsored research
    activities relating to the development of new products,
    improvement of existing products, technical support of products
    and compliance with governmental regulations for the protection
    of consumers and patients, excluding in-process research and
    development charges, amounted to $7,680 million,
    $7,125 million and $6,462 million for fiscal years
    2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These costs are charged
    directly to income in the year in which incurred.

Environment  

Johnson   Johnson s operating companies are subject to
    a variety of federal, state and local environmental protection
    measures. Johnson   Johnson believes that its operations
    comply in all material respects with applicable environmental
    laws and regulations. Johnson   Johnson s compliance
    with these requirements did not during the past year, and is not
    expected to, have a material effect upon its capital
    expenditures, cash flows, earnings or competitive position.

Regulation  

Most of Johnson   Johnson s businesses are subject to
    varying degrees of governmental regulation in the countries in
    which operations are conducted, and the general trend is toward
    increasingly stringent regulation. In the United States, the
    drug, device, diagnostics and cosmetic industries have long been
    subject to regulation by various federal and state agencies,
    primarily as to product safety, efficacy, manufacturing,
    advertising, labeling and safety reporting. The exercise of
    broad regulatory powers by the FDA continues to result in
    increases in the amounts of testing and documentation required
    for FDA clearance of new drugs and devices and a corresponding
    increase in the expense of product introduction. Similar trends
    are also evident in major markets outside of the United States.

The costs of human health care have been and continue to be a
    subject of study, investigation and regulation by governmental
    agencies and legislative bodies around the world. In the United
    States, attention has been focused on drug prices and profits
    and programs that encourage doctors to write prescriptions for
    particular drugs or recommend, use or purchase particular
    medical devices. Payers have become a more potent force in the
    market

3

Table of Contents   

place and increased attention is being paid to drug and medical
    device pricing, appropriate drug and medical device utilization
    and the quality and costs of health care. In the United States,
    implementation of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement
    and Modernization Act of 2003 and the Deficit Reduction Act of
    2005 may cause uncertainty in reimbursement levels in certain
    product segments.

The regulatory agencies under whose purview Johnson  
    Johnson s operating companies operate have administrative
    powers that may subject those companies to such actions as
    product withdrawals, recalls, seizure of products and other
    civil and criminal sanctions. In some cases, Johnson  
    Johnson s operating companies may deem it advisable to
    initiate product recalls.

In addition, business practices in the health care industry have
    come under increased scrutiny, particularly in the United
    States, by government agencies and state attorneys general, and
    resulting investigations and prosecutions carry the risk of
    significant civil and criminal penalties.

Available
    Information  

The Company s main corporate Web site address is
     www.jnj.com.  Copies of Johnson   Johnson s
    Quarterly Reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    and Current Reports on
     Form 8-K 
    filed or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
    Commission (the  SEC ), and any amendments to the
    foregoing, will be provided without charge to any shareholder
    submitting a written request to the Secretary at the principal
    executive offices of the Company or by calling 1-800-328-9033.
    All of the Company s SEC filings are also available on the
    Company s Web site at
     www.investor.jnj.com/governance.cfm , as soon as
    reasonably practicable after having been electronically filed or
    furnished to the SEC. All SEC filings are also available at the
    SEC s Web site at  www.sec.gov . In addition, the
    written charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation  
    Benefits Committee and the Nominating   Corporate
    Governance Committee of the Board of Directors and the
    Company s Principles of Corporate Governance, Policy on
    Business Conduct for employees and Code of Business Conduct
      Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors and
    Executive Officers are available at the
     www.investor.jnj.com/governance.cfm  Web site address and
    will be provided without charge to any shareholder submitting a
    written request, as provided above.

Item
    1A.  RISK FACTORS  

Not applicable.

Item
    1B.  UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

Not applicable.

Item
    2.  PROPERTIES  

Johnson   Johnson and its subsidiaries operate 150
    manufacturing facilities occupying approximately
    21.6 million square feet of floor space.

The manufacturing facilities are used by the industry segments
    of Johnson   Johnson s business approximately as
    follows:

Within the United States, eight facilities are used by the
    Consumer segment, 14 by the Pharmaceutical segment and 41 by the
    Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment. Johnson  
    Johnson s manufacturing operations outside the United
    States are often conducted in facilities that serve more than
    one business segment.

4

Table of Contents   

The locations of the manufacturing facilities by major
    geographic areas of the world are as follows:

In addition to the manufacturing facilities discussed above,
    Johnson   Johnson and its subsidiaries maintain numerous
    office and warehouse facilities throughout the world. Research
    facilities are also discussed in Item 1 under  Business
      Research and Development. 

Johnson   Johnson and its subsidiaries generally seek to
    own their manufacturing facilities, although some, principally
    in locations abroad, are leased. Office and warehouse facilities
    are often leased.

Johnson   Johnson s properties are maintained in good
    operating condition and repair and are well utilized.

For information regarding lease obligations, see Note 4
     Rental Expense and Lease Commitments  under
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  on
    page 55 of the Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to
    this Report on Form 10-K. Segment information on additions
    to property, plant and equipment is contained in Note 11
     Segments of Business and Geographic Areas  under
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  on
    page 59 of the Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to
    this Report on Form 10-K.

Item
    3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  

The information set forth in Note 18  Legal
    Proceedings  under  Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements  on pages 66 through 72 of the Annual
    Report is incorporated herein by reference and filed as
    Exhibit 13 to this Report on
     Form 10-K. 

The Company or its subsidiaries are parties to a number of
    proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental
    Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as
    Superfund, and comparable state laws, in which the primary
    relief sought is the cost of past and future remediation. While
    it is not feasible to predict or determine the outcome of these
    proceedings, in the opinion of the Company, such proceedings
    would not have a material adverse effect on the results of
    operations, cash flows or financial position of the Company.

Item
    4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY
    HOLDERS  

Not applicable.

EXECUTIVE
    OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  

Listed below are the executive officers of Johnson  
    Johnson as of February 15, 2008, each of whom, unless
    otherwise indicated below, has been an employee of the Company
    or its affiliates and held the position indicated during the
    past five years. There are no family relationships between any
    of the executive officers, and there is no arrangement or
    understanding between any executive officer and any other person
    pursuant to which the executive officer was selected. At the
    annual meeting of the Board of Directors, the executive officers
    are elected by the Board to hold office for one year and until
    their respective successors are elected and qualified, or until
    earlier resignation or removal.

5

Table of Contents   

Information with regard to the directors of the Company,
    including those of the following executive officers who are
    directors, is incorporated herein by reference to the material
    captioned  Election of Directors  in the Proxy
    Statement.

Name 

Age 

Position 

Dominic J. Caruso

50

Member, Executive Committee; Vice President, Finance; Chief
    Financial Officer(a)

Donald M. Casey, Jr.

48

Member, Executive Committee; Worldwide Chairman, Comprehensive
    Care Group(b)

Russell C. Deyo

58

Member, Executive Committee; Vice President, General Counsel (c)

Kaye I. Foster-Cheek

48

Member, Executive Committee; Vice President, Human Resources(d)

Colleen A. Goggins

53

Member, Executive Committee; Worldwide Chairman, Consumer
    Group(e)

Sherilyn S. McCoy

49

Member, Executive Committee; Worldwide Chairman, Surgical Care
    Group(f)

Christine A. Poon

55

Vice Chairman, Board of Directors; Member, Executive Committee;
    Worldwide Chairman, Pharmaceuticals Group

Joseph C. Scodari

55

Member, Executive Committee(g)

Nicholas J. Valeriani

51

Member, Executive Committee; Vice President, Strategy  
    Growth(h)

William C. Weldon

59

Chairman, Board of Directors; Chairman, Executive Committee;
    Chief Executive Officer

(a)  

Mr. D. J. Caruso joined the Company in 1999 when the
    Company acquired Centocor, Inc. At the time of that acquisition,
    he had been Senior Vice President, Finance of Centocor.
    Mr. Caruso was named Vice President, Finance of
    Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical, Inc. in 2001 and Vice President,
    Group Finance of the Company s Medical Devices and
    Diagnostics Group in 2003. In 2005, Mr. Caruso was named
    Vice President of the Company s Group Finance organization.
    Mr. Caruso became a Member of the Executive Committee and
    Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer in
    January 2007. 

(b)  

Mr. D. M. Casey, Jr., joined the Company in 1985 and
    held various positions before becoming President of
    Johnson   Johnson   Merck Consumer
    Pharmaceuticals Co. in 1997. In 2001, he was named President of
    Personal Products Company Division of Johnson  
    Johnson Consumer Companies, Inc. In 2002, Mr. Casey became
    the Group President of Johnson   Johnson Vision Care,
    Inc., and in 2004 was named Company Group Chairman, Vision Care.
    In November 2006, he was named Company Group Chairman of the
    LifeScan franchise. In January 2008, he became a Member of the
    Executive Committee and Worldwide Chairman, Comprehensive Care
    Group. 

(c)  

Mr. R. C. Deyo joined the Company in 1985 and became Associate
    General Counsel in 1991. He became a Member of the Executive
    Committee and Vice President, Administration in 1996 and Vice
    President, General Counsel in 2004. 

(d)  

Ms. K. I. Foster-Cheek joined the Company in 2003 as
    Vice President, Human Resources for the Johnson   Johnson
    consumer products companies. In March 2004, she was named Vice
    President, Human Resources for the Consumer   Personal Care
    Group and was named a member of the Human Resources Leadership
    Team and the Consumer   Personal Care Group Operating
    Committee. Ms. Foster-Cheek became a Member of the Executive
    Committee and Vice President, Human Resources for the Company in
    2005. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Foster-Cheek served
    in various human resources management positions with Pfizer Inc.
    for 13 years, most recently supporting its pharmaceutical
    businesses in Japan, Asia, Africa, Middle East and Latin America. 

(e)  

Ms. C. A. Goggins joined the Company in 1981 and held
    various positions before becoming President of Personal Products
    Company in 1994. She was named President of Johnson  
    Johnson Consumer Companies, Inc. in 1995 and Company Group
    Chairman, North America, Johnson   Johnson Consumer
    Products in 1998. Ms. Goggins became a Member of the
    Executive Committee and Worldwide Chairman, Consumer  
    Personal Care Group in 2001, now known as the Consumer Group. 

6

Table of Contents   

(f)  

Ms. S. S. McCoy joined the Company in 1982 as an Associate
    Scientist in Research   Development for Personal
    Products Company. She was named Vice President,
    Research   Development for the Personal Products
    Worldwide Division of McNEIL-PPC, Inc. in 1995, and Vice
    President, Marketing for its Skin Care franchise in 2000. In
    2002, Ms. McCoy became Global President for its Baby and
    Wound Care franchise. She was named Company Group Chairman and
    Worldwide Franchise Chairman of Ethicon, Inc. in 2005. In
    January 2008 she became a Member of the Executive Committee and
    Worldwide Chairman, Surgical Care Group. 

(g)  

Mr. J. C. Scodari joined the Company in 1999 as
    President of Centocor, Inc. when the Company acquired Centocor.
    At the time of that acquisition, he had been the President and
    Chief Operating Officer of Centocor and a member of
    Centocor s Board of Directors since December 1997. In 2001,
    he was named Company Group Chairman for the North American
    pharmaceutical business, and became a member of the
    Pharmaceuticals Group Operating Committee. In 2003,
    Mr. Scodari was named Company Group Chairman,
    Biopharmaceutical Businesses. Mr. Scodari became a Member
    of the Executive Committee and Worldwide Chairman,
    Pharmaceuticals Group in 2005. Mr. Scodari plans to retire
    from the Company in March 2008. 

(h)  

Mr. N. J. Valeriani joined the Company in 1978 and held
    various positions before becoming President of Ethicon
    Endo-Surgery, Inc. in 1997. In 2001 he was named Company Group
    Chairman for Ethicon Endo-Surgery with additional responsibility
    for the Johnson   Johnson Medical Products Medical
    Devices and Diagnostics business in Canada. He became Worldwide
    Franchise Chairman for the DePuy Franchise in 2002.
    Mr. Valeriani became a Member of the Executive Committee
    and Vice President, Human Resources in 2003. In 2004 he assumed
    additional responsibilities as Worldwide Chairman, Diagnostics.
    In 2005, Mr. Valeriani was appointed Worldwide Chairman,
    Cardiovascular Devices and Diagnostics and relinquished his
    Human Resources responsibilities. He became Worldwide Chairman,
    Medical Devices and Diagnostics Group in 2006. In January 2008
    Mr. Valeriani became Vice President, Strategy   Growth. 

PART
    II  

Item
    5.    

MARKET
    FOR THE REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER
    MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  

As of February 15, 2008, there were 171,981 record holders
    of Common Stock of the Company. Additional information called
    for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to: the
    material under the captions  Management s Discussion
    and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition   Liquidity and Capital
    Resources   Share Repurchase and Dividends  on
    page 44;     Other
    Information   Common Stock Market Prices  on
    page 47; Note 10  Common Stock, Stock Option
    Plans and Stock Compensation Agreements  under  Notes
    to Consolidated Financial Statements  on pages 57 and
    58; and  Shareholder Return Performance Graphs  on
    page 77 of the Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to
    this Report on
     Form 10-K; 
    and Item 12  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
    Matters   Equity Compensation Plan Information 
    of this Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Issuer
    Purchases of Equity Securities  

On July 9, 2007, the Company announced that its Board of
    Directors approved a stock repurchase program, authorizing the
    Company to buy back up to $10 billion of the Company s
    Common Stock. Share repurchases will take place on the open
    market from time to time based on market conditions.  The
    repurchase program has no time limit and may be suspended for
    periods or discontinued at any time.  Any shares acquired will
    be available for general corporate purposes.  The Company
    intends to fund the share repurchase program through a
    combination of available cash and debt. The Company does not
    expect its triple-A credit rating to be effected by the share
    repurchase program.

In addition, Common Stock purchases on the open market are made
    as part of a systematic plan related to the Company s
    compensation programs.

7

Table of Contents   

The following table provides information with respect to Common
    Stock purchases by the Company during the fiscal fourth quarter
    of 2007.

Item
    6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the material under the caption  Summary of
    Operations and Statistical Data 1997-2007  on page 76
    of the Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Item
    7.    

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATION  

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the narrative and tabular (but not the graphic)
    material under the caption  Management s Discussion
    and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition  on pages 36 through 47 of the Annual
    Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Item 7A.  QUANTITATIVE
    AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the material under the caption
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Results of
    Operations and Financial Condition   Liquidity and
    Capital Resources   Financing and Market Risk  on
    page 43 and Note 1  Summary of Significant
    Accounting Policies   Financial Instruments 
    under  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  on
    pages 53 and 54 of the Annual Report, filed as
    Exhibit 13 to this Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Item
    8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY
    DATA  

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements
    and Notes thereto and the material under the caption
     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm  on pages 48 through 75 of the Annual Report,
    filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on
     Form 10-K. 

8

Table of Contents   

Item
    9.    

CHANGES
    IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
    FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  

Not applicable.

Item 9A.    

CONTROLS
    AND PROCEDURES  

Disclosure Controls and Procedures.   At the end
    of the period covered by this report, the Company evaluated the
    effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure
    controls and procedures. The Company s disclosure controls
    and procedures are designed to ensure that information required
    to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or
    submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
    summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in
    the SEC s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and
    procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures
    designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by
    the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the
    Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the
    Company s management, including its principal executive and
    principal financial officers, or persons performing similar
    functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding
    required disclosure. William C. Weldon, Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer, and Dominic J. Caruso, Chief Financial
    Officer, reviewed and participated in this evaluation. Based on
    this evaluation, Messrs. Weldon and Caruso concluded that,
    as of the end of the period covered by this report, the
    Company s disclosure controls and procedures were effective.

Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over
    Financial Reporting.   Under Section 404 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, management is required to assess the
    effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year and
    report, based on that assessment, whether the Company s
    internal control over financial reporting is effective.

Management of the Company is responsible for establishing and
    maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.
    The Company s internal control over financial reporting is
    designed to provide reasonable assurance as to the reliability
    of the Company s financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles.

Internal control over financial reporting, no matter how well
    designed, has inherent limitations. Therefore, internal control
    over financial reporting determined to be effective can provide
    only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement
    preparation and may not prevent or detect all misstatements.
    Moreover, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
    future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The Company s management has assessed the effectiveness of
    the Company s internal control over financial reporting as
    of December 30, 2007. In making this assessment, the
    Company used the criteria established by the Committee of
    Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in
     Internal Control-Integrated Framework.  These
    criteria are in the areas of control environment, risk
    assessment, control activities, information and communication,
    and monitoring. The Company s assessment included extensive
    documenting, evaluating and testing the design and operating
    effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting.

Based on the Company s processes and assessment, as
    described above, management has concluded that, as of
    December 30, 2007, the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting was effective.

The effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 30, 2007 has been
    audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
    public accounting firm, as stated in their report, which appears
    in the  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm  on page 75 of the Annual Report, which is
    incorporated herein by reference and filed as Exhibit 13 to
    this Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting.   During the fiscal quarter ended
    December 30, 2007, there were no changes in the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting
    identified in connection with the evaluation of such referred to
    above in this Item 9A that have materially affected, or are
    reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s
    internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B.    

OTHER
    INFORMATION  

Not applicable.

9

Table of Contents   

PART
    III  

Item
    10.  DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE
    GOVERNANCE  

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the material under the captions  Election
    of Directors  and  Stock Ownership and Section 16
    Compliance   Section 16(b) Beneficial Ownership
    Reporting Compliance  and the discussion of the Audit
    Committee under the caption  Corporate
    Governance   Board Committees  in the Proxy
    Statement; and the material under the caption  Executive
    Officers of the Registrant  in Part I of this Report
    on
     Form 10-K. 

The Company s Policy on Business Conduct, which covers all
    employees (including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief
    Financial Officer and Controller), meets the requirements of the
    SEC rules promulgated under Section 406 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Policy on Business Conduct is
    available on the Company s Web site at
     www.investor.jnj.com/governance/policies.cfm , and copies
    are available to shareholders without charge upon written
    request to the Secretary at the Company s principal
    executive offices. Any substantive amendment to the Policy on
    Business Conduct or any waiver of the Policy granted to the
    Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer or the
    Controller will be posted on the Company s Web site at
      www.investor.jnj.com/governance.cfm  
    within five business days (and retained on the Web site for at
    least one year).

In addition, the Company has adopted a Code of Business Conduct
      Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors and
    Executive Officers. The Code of Business Conduct   Ethics
    for Members of the Board of Directors and Executive Officers is
    available on the Company s Web site at
     www.investor.jnj.com/governance/policies.cfm , and copies
    are available to shareholders without charge upon written
    request to the Secretary at the Company s principal
    executive offices. Any substantive amendment to the Code or any
    waiver of the Code granted to any member of the Board of
    Directors or any executive officer will be posted on the
    Company s Web site at
     www.investor.jnj.com/governance  within five business days
    (and retained on the Web site for at least one year).

Item
    11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the material under the captions
     Compensation Discussion and Analysis, 
     Executive and Director Compensation  and
     Compensation Committee Report  in the Proxy Statement.

The material incorporated herein by reference to the material
    under the caption  Compensation Committee Report  in
    the Proxy Statement shall be deemed furnished, and not filed, in
    this Report on
     Form 10-K 
    and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any
    filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as a result of this
    furnishing, except to the extent that the Registrant
    specifically incorporates it by reference.

Item
    12.    

SECURITY
    OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
    RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  

Additional information called for by this item is incorporated
    herein by reference to the material under the captions
     Stock Ownership and Section 16 Compliance  in
    the Proxy Statement and Note 10  Common Stock, Stock
    Option Plans and Stock Compensation Agreements  under
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  on
    pages 57 and 58 of the Annual Report, filed as
    Exhibit 13 to this Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Equity
    Compensation Plan Information  

The following table provides certain information as of
    December 30, 2007 concerning the shares of the
    Company s Common Stock that may be issued under existing
    equity compensation plans.

10

Table of Contents   

(1)  
 
         Included in this category are the following equity compensation
    plans, which have been approved by the Company s
    shareholders: 1995 Stock Option Plan, 2000 Stock Option Plan,
    2000 Stock Compensation Plan and 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan.

(2)  
 
         Included in this category are 1,813,692 shares of Common
    Stock of the Company issuable under various equity compensation
    plans which were assumed by the Company upon acquisition of the
    following companies: ALZA Corporation, Scios Inc.,
    Innovasive Devices, Inc., Inverness Medical
    Technology, Inc. and Centocor, Inc. 796,241 of the
    shares listed as issuable in this category were issued under
    plans that were approved by the shareholders of these companies
    prior to the acquisition and the assumption of these plans by
    the Company. At the time of each of these acquisitions, options
    to acquire equity of the acquired company were replaced by
    options to acquire the Common Stock of the Company. No stock
    options or equity awards of any type have been made under any of
    these plans since the assumption of these plans by the Company,
    and no further stock options or other equity awards of any type
    will be made under any of these plans in the future.

The shares that are included in this column that were issued
    under plans not approved by shareholders of the applicable
    acquired company are: 543,094 shares issuable under the
    1996 Scios Non-Officer Stock Option Plan; 439,186 shares
    issuable under an ALZA non-statutory plan; and
    35,171 shares issuable under warrants under an Inverness
    Medical plan.

(3)  
 
         Also included in this category are 139,100 shares of Common
    Stock of the Company issuable upon the exercise of outstanding
    stock options under the Company s Stock Option Plan for
    Non-Employee Directors.

(4)  
 
         This column excludes shares reflected under the column
     Number of Securities to be Issued Upon Exercise of
    Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights. 

Item
    13.    

CERTAIN
    RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
    INDEPENDENCE  

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the material under the captions
     Transactions with Related Persons  and
     Corporate Governance   Director
    Independence  in the Proxy Statement.

Item
    14.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES  

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the material under the caption
     Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered
    Public Accounting Firm  in the Proxy Statement.

11

Table of Contents   

PART
    IV  

Item
    15.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  

(a) The following documents are filed as part of this
    report:

1.  Financial Statements 

The following Audited Consolidated Financial Statements and
    Notes thereto and the material under the caption  Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  on
    pages 48 through 75 of the Annual Report are incorporated
    herein by reference and filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report
    on
     Form 10-K: 

Consolidated Balance Sheets at end of Fiscal Years 2007 and 2006

Consolidated Statements of Earnings for Fiscal Years 2007, 2006
    and 2005

Consolidated Statements of Equity for Fiscal Years 2007, 2006
    and 2005

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for Fiscal Years 2007,
    2006 and 2005

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

2.  Financial Statement Schedules 

Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

Schedules other than those listed above are omitted because they
    are not required or are not applicable.

3.  Exhibits Required to be Filed by Item 60l of
    Regulation
     S-K  

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the Exhibit Index in this report.

12

Table of Contents   

JOHNSON  
    JOHNSON AND SUBSIDIARIES  

SCHEDULE II   VALUATION AND
    QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 

Fiscal Years Ended December 30, 2007, December 31,
    2006 and January 1, 2006 

(Dollars in Millions) 

13

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report
    to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
    authorized.

Date: February 26, 2008

JOHNSON   JOHNSON

(Registrant)

By 

/s/   
    W. C. Weldon 

W. C. Weldon, Chairman, Board of Directors,

and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

Signature 

Title 

Date 

/s/   W.
    C. Weldon 

W.
    C. Weldon

Chairman, Board of Directors, 
    Chief Executive Officer, and Director (Principal Executive
    Officer)

February 20, 2008

/s/   C. A.
    Poon 

C. A.
    Poon

Vice Chairman, Board of Directors, and Director

February 20, 2008

/s/   D. J.
    Caruso 

D. J.
    Caruso

Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)

February 20, 2008

/s/   S.
    J. Cosgrove 

S.
    J. Cosgrove

Controller (Principal Accounting Officer)

February 20, 2008

/s/   M.
    S. Coleman 

M.
    S. Coleman

Director

February 20, 2008

/s/   J.
    G. Cullen 

J.
    G. Cullen

Director

February 20, 2008

/s/   M.
    M. E. Johns 

M.
    M. E. Johns

Director

February 20, 2008

14

Table of Contents   

15

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON  

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE 

To the
    Shareholders and Board of Directors of

Johnson   Johnson:

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements and of the
    effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
    referred to in our report dated February 20, 2008 appearing
    in the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders of Johnson  
    Johnson (which report and consolidated financial statements are
    incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K) 
    also included an audit of the financial statement schedule
    listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this
     Form 10-K. 
    In our opinion, this financial statement schedule presents
    fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
    therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated
    financial statements.

/s/   PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP 

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

New York, New York

February 20, 2008

16

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT
    INDEX  

Reg.
     S-K  

Exhibit Table 

Description 

Item No. 

of Exhibit 

3

(a)(i)

Restated Certificate of Incorporation dated April 26,
    1990   Incorporated herein by reference to
    Exhibit 3(a) of the Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended December 30, 1990.

3

(a)(ii)

Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of
    Incorporation of the Company dated May 20, 1992  
    Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(a) of the
    Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended January 3, 1993.

3

(a)(iii)

Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of
    Incorporation of the Company dated May 21, 1996  
    Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(a)(iii) of
    the Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended December 29, 1996.

3

(a)(iv)

Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of
    Incorporation of the Company effective May 22,
    2001   Incorporated herein by reference to
    Exhibit 3 of the Registrant s
     Form 10-Q 
    Quarterly Report for the quarter ended July 1, 2001.

3

(a)(v)

Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of
    Incorporation of the Company effective April 27,
    2006   Incorporated herein by reference to
    Exhibit 3(i) of the Registrant s Form 10-Q Quarterly
    Report for the quarter ended April 2, 2006.

3

(b)

By-Laws of the Company, as amended effective January 14,
    2008   Incorporated herein by reference to
    Exhibit 3.1 the Registrant s
     Form 8-K 
    Current Report filed January 15, 2008.

4

(a)

Upon the request of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
    Registrant will furnish a copy of all instruments defining the
    rights of holders of long term debt of the Registrant.

10

(a)

Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors  
    Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) of the
    Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended December 29, 1996.*

10

(b)

2000 Stock Option Plan (as amended)   Incorporated
    herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b) of the
    Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended December 29, 2002.*

10

(c)

1995 Stock Option Plan (as amended)   Incorporated
    herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b) of the
    Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended January 3, 1999.*

10

(d)

2000 Stock Compensation Plan   Incorporated herein by
    reference to Exhibit 10(e) of the Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2000.*

10

(e)

2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan   Incorporated
    herein by reference to Exhibit 4 of the Registrant s
     S-8 
    Registration Statement filed with the Commission on May 10,
    2005 (file
     no. 333-124785).* 

10

(f)

Form of Stock Option Certificate and Restricted Shares to
    Non-Employee Directors Certificate under the 2005 Long-Term
    Incentive Plan   Incorporated herein by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant s
     Form 10-Q 
    Quarterly Report for the quarter ended July 3, 2005.*

10

(g)

Form of Restricted Stock Unit Certificate under the 2005
    Long-Term Incentive Plan   Incorporated herein by
    reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant s
     Form 10-Q 
    Quarterly Report for the quarter ended October 2, 2005.*

10

(h)

Executive Bonus Plan   Incorporated herein by
    reference to Exhibit 4 of the Registrant s
     Form S-8 
    Registration Statement filed with the Commission on
    November 8, 2005 (file
     no. 333-129542).* 

10

(i)

Executive Incentive Plan (as amended)   Incorporated
    herein by reference to Exhibit 10(f) of the
    Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2000.*

10

(j)

Domestic Deferred Compensation (Certificate of Extra
    Compensation) Plan (as amended)   Incorporated herein
    by reference to Exhibit 10(g) of the Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended December 28, 2003.*

10

(k)

Deferred Fee Plan for Non-Employee Directors (as amended)  
    Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(h) of the
    Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended January 2, 2005.*

17

Table of Contents   

Reg.
     S-K  

Exhibit Table 

Description 

Item No. 

of Exhibit 

10

(l)

Executive Income Deferral Plan (as amended)  
    Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(i) of the
    Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended December 28, 2003.*

10

(m)

Excess Savings Plan   Incorporated herein by reference
    to Exhibit 10(j) of the Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended December 29, 1996.*

10

(n)

Supplemental Retirement Plan   Incorporated herein by
    reference to Exhibit 10(h) of the Registrant s Form
     10-K  Annual
    Report for the year ended January 3, 1993.*

10

(o)

Executive Life Insurance Plan   Incorporated herein by
    reference to Exhibit 10(i) of the Registrant s Form
     10-K  Annual
    Report for the year ended January 3, 1993.*

10

(p)

Stock Option Gain Deferral Plan   Incorporated herein
    by reference to Exhibit 10(m) of the Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended January 2, 2000.*

10

(q)

Estate Preservation Plan   Incorporated herein by
    reference to Exhibit 10(n) of the Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended January 2, 2000.*

10

(r)

Summary of compensation arrangements for Named Executive
    Officers and Directors    Filed with this
    document.*

12

Statement of Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
      Filed with this document.

13

Pages 36 through 77 of the Company s Annual
    Report to Shareholders for fiscal year 2007 (only those portions
    of the Annual Report incorporated by reference in this report
    are deemed  filed )   Filed with this document.

21

Subsidiaries   Filed with this document.

23

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm   Filed with this document.

31

(a)

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act   Filed
    with this document.

31

(b)

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act   Filed
    with this document.

32

(a)

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act   Furnished
    with this document.

32

(b)

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act   Furnished
    with this document.

99

Cautionary Statement Pursuant to Private Securities Litigation
    Reform Act of 1995    Safe Harbor  for
    Forward-Looking Statements   Filed with this document.

*  
     
    Management contract or compensatory plan.

A copy of any of the Exhibits listed above will be provided
    without charge to any shareholder submitting a written request
    specifying the desired exhibit(s) to the Secretary at the
    principal executive offices of the Company.

18

<EX-10.R>
 2
 y47910exv10wr.htm
 EX-10.R: SUMMARY OF COMPENSATION ARRANGEMENTS FOR NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS

EX-10.R 

EXHIBIT 10(r)  

Summary
    of Compensation Arrangements for 
    Named Executive Officers and Directors  

Compensation
    Arrangements for Named Executive Officers  

Following is a description of the compensation arrangements that
    have been approved by the Compensation   Benefits
    Committee of the Board of Directors of Johnson  
    Johnson (the  Compensation Committee ) on
    February 11, 2008 for the Company s Chief Executive
    Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the other three most highly
    compensated executive officers in 2007 (the  Named
    Executive Officers ).

Annual
    Base Salary:   

The Compensation Committee has approved the following base
    salaries, effective February 25, 2008 (January 1, 2008
    in the case of Mr. Caruso), for the Named Executive
    Officers:

Performance
    Bonus:   

The Compensation Committee has approved the following bonus
    performance payments for performance in 2007 (paid in the form
    of 85% cash and 15% Company Common Stock as determined by the
    Compensation Committee):

Stock
    Option and Restricted Share Unit Grants:   

The Compensation Committee has approved the following stock
    option and Restricted Share Unit ( RSU ) grants under
    the Company s 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  LTI
    Plan ). The stock options were granted at an exercise price
    of $61.75, at the  fair market value  (calculated as
    the average of the high and low prices of the Company s
    Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange) on
    February 11, 2008. The options will become exercisable on
    February 12, 2011 and expire on February 10, 2018. The
    RSUs will vest on February 12, 2011, upon which, the
    holder, if still employed by the Company on such date, will
    receive one share of the Company s Common Stock for each
    RSU.

Non-Equity
    Incentive Plan Awards:   

The Compensation Committee has approved the following non-equity
    incentive plan awards in recognition of performance during 2007
    under the Company s Certificate of Extra Compensation
    ( CEC ) program. Awards are not paid out until
    retirement or other termination of employment. As of the end of
    fiscal year 2007, the CEC value per unit was $29.62. The CEC
    unit value will vary over time based on the performance of the
    Company. Awards of CEC units are not granted to every executive
    officer for every year.

Equity
    Compensation for Non-Employee Directors  

Each Non-Employee Director receives non-retainer equity
    compensation in the first quarter of each year under the LTI
    Plan in the form of shares of restricted Common Stock having a
    fair market value of $100,000 on the grant date. Accordingly,
    each Non-Employee Director was granted 1,619 shares of
    restricted Common Stock under the LTI Plan on February 11,
    2008 for service on the Board in 2007. The restricted shares
    will become freely transferable on February 11, 2011.

</EX-10.R>

<EX-12>
 3
 y47910exv12.htm
 EX-12: STATEMENT OF COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

EX-12 

EXHIBIT 12  

JOHNSON
      JOHNSON AND SUBSIDIARIES  

STATEMENT OF COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED
    CHARGES (1)  

(Dollars in Millions) 

(1)   
     
    The ratio of earnings to fixed charges is computed by dividing
    the sum of earnings before provision for taxes on income and
    fixed charges by fixed charges. Fixed charges represent interest
    expense (before interest is capitalized), amortization of debt
    discount and an appropriate interest factor on operating leases.

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 4
 y47910exv13.htm
 EX-13: PAGES 36 THROUGH 77 OF THE COMPANY'S ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS

EX-13 

Exhibit 13 

Table of Contents 

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  

36

Organization and Business Segments 

36

Results of Operations 

37

Analysis of Sales by Business Segments 

40

Analysis of Consolidated Earnings Before Provision for Taxes on Income 

42

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

44

Other Information 

47

Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results 

AUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

48

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

49

Consolidated Statements of Earnings 

50

Consolidated Statements of Equity 

51

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

52

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

74

Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

75

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

76

Summary of Operations and Statistical Data 1997 2007 

77

Shareholder Return Performance Graphs 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition 

Organization and Business Segments 

DESCRIPTION OF THE COMPANY AND BUSINESS SEGMENTS 

Johnson   Johnson and its subsidiaries (the  Company ) have approximately 119,200 employees
worldwide engaged in the research and development, manufacture and sale of a broad range of
products in the health care field. The Company conducts business in virtually all countries of the
world with the primary focus on products related to human health and well-being.

The Company is organized into three business segments: Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical
Devices and Diagnostics. The Consumer segment includes a broad range of products used in the baby
care, skin care, oral care, wound care and women s health care fields, as well as nutritional and
over-the-counter pharmaceutical products. These products are marketed principally to the general
public and sold both to wholesalers and directly to independent and chain retail outlets throughout
the world. The Pharmaceutical segment includes products in the following therapeutic areas:
anti-infective, antipsychotic, cardiovascular, contraceptive, dermatology, gastrointestinal,
hematology, immunology, neurology, oncology, pain management, urology and virology. These products
are distributed directly to retailers, wholesalers and health care professionals for prescription
use by the general public. The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment includes a broad range of
products used principally in the professional fields by physicians, nurses, therapists, hospitals,
diagnostic laboratories and clinics. These products include Cordis  circulatory disease management
products; DePuy s orthopaedic joint reconstruction and spinal care products; Ethicon s wound care
and women s health products; Ethicon Endo-Surgery s minimally invasive surgical products;
LifeScan s blood glucose monitoring and insulin delivery products; Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics 
professional diagnostic products and Vision Care s disposable contact lenses.

The Company s structure is based upon the principle of decentralized management. The Executive
Committee of Johnson   Johnson is the principal management group responsible for the operations and
allocation of the resources of the Company. This Committee oversees and coordinates the activities
of the Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnostics business segments. Each
subsidiary within the business segments is, with
some exceptions, managed by citizens of the country where it is located.

In all of its product lines, the Company competes with companies both large and small, located
throughout the world. Competition is strong in all product lines without regard to the number and
size of the competing companies involved. Competition in research, involving the development and
the improvement of new and existing products and processes, is particularly significant. The
development of new and improved products is important to the Company s success in all areas of its
business. This also includes protecting the Company s portfolio of intellectual property. The
competitive environment requires substantial investments in continuing research and multiple sales
forces. In addition, the development and maintenance of customer acceptance of the Company s
consumer products involves significant expenditures for advertising and promotion.

MANAGEMENT S OBJECTIVES 

A primary objective of the Company is to achieve superior levels of capital efficient profitable
growth. To accomplish this, the Company s management operates the business consistent with certain
strategic principles that have proven successful over time. To this end, the Company participates
in growth areas in human health care and is committed to attaining leadership positions in these
growth segments through the development of innovative products and services. New products
introduced within the past five years accounted for approximately 30% of 2007 sales. In 2007, $7.7
billion, or 12.6% of sales was invested in research and development, an increase of $0.6 billion
over 2006. This increase reflects management s commitment to the importance of on-going
development of new and differentiated products and services to sustain long-term growth.

With more than 250 operating companies located in 57 countries, the Company views its
principle of decentralized management as an asset and fundamental to the success of a broadly
based business. It also fosters an entrepreneurial spirit, combining the extensive
resources of a large organization with the ability to react quickly to local market changes
and challenges.

The Company is committed to developing global business leaders who can drive growth
objectives. Businesses are managed for the long term in order to sustain leadership positions and
achieve growth that provides an enduring source of value to our shareholders.

Unifying the management team and the Company s dedicated employees in achieving these
objectives is Our Credo. Our Credo provides a common set of values and serves as a constant
reminder of the Company s responsibilities to its customers, employees, communities and
shareholders. The Company believes that these basic principles, along with its overall mission of
improving the quality of life for people everywhere, will enable Johnson   Johnson to continue to
be among the leaders in the health care industry.

Results of Operations 

ANALYSIS OF CONSOLIDATED SALES 

In 2007, worldwide sales increased 14.6% to $61.1 billion, compared to increases of 5.6% in 2006
and 6.7% in 2005. These sales increases consisted of the following:

Sales by U.S. companies were $32.4 billion in 2007, $29.8 billion in 2006 and $28.4 billion in
2005. This represents an increase of 9.0% in 2007, 4.9% in 2006 and 2.2% in 2005. Sales by
international companies were $28.7 billion in 2007, $23.5 billion in 2006 and
$22.1 billion in 2005. This represents an increase of 21.7% in 2007, 6.4% in 2006 and 13.1% in 2005.

The five-year compound annual growth rates for worldwide, U.S. and international sales were
11.0%, 7.6% and 15.7%, respectively. The ten-year compound annual growth rates for worldwide, U.S.
and international sales were 10.5%, 10.6% and 10.3%, respectively.

All international geographic regions experienced sales growth during 2007, consisting of 22.4%
in Europe, 32.2% in the Western Hemisphere (excluding the U.S.) and 15.3% in the Asia-Pacific,
Africa regions. These sales increases include the impact of currency fluctuations between the U.S.
dollar and foreign currencies, which had positive impacts of 9.2% in Europe, 6.7% in the Western
Hemisphere (excluding the U.S.) and 3.5% in the Asia-Pacific, Africa region.

The acquisition of Pfizer Inc. s Consumer Healthcare business, net of the related
divestitures, increased both total sales growth and operational growth by 7.4%.

In 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company did not have a customer that represented 10% or more of
total revenues.

Analysis of Sales by Business Segments 

CONSUMER SEGMENT 

Consumer segment sales in 2007 were $14.5 billion, an increase of 48.3%, over 2006 with 44.2% of
this change due to operational growth and the remaining 4.1% due to positive currency
fluctuations. U.S. Consumer segment sales were $6.4 billion, an increase of 40.1%. International sales were $8.1 billion, an increase of 55.5%, with 47.8% as a result of
operations and 7.7% due to currency fluctuations over 2006.

The
acquisition of Pfizer Inc. s Consumer Healthcare business, net of the related
divestitures, increased both total sales growth and operational growth for the total Consumer
segment by 40.3%.

The
Over-the-Counter (OTC) Pharmaceuticals and Nutritionals franchise sales were $5.1 billion,
an increase of 87.5% from 2006. This was attributable to new products from acquisitions, as well
as strong sales growth achieved by analgesics and SPLENDA    products. The positive impact on OTC
Pharmaceuticals and Nutritionals total sales growth due to newly acquired brands from Pfizer Inc. was 80.0% for the fiscal year 2007.

In
2007, the Company announced a voluntary withdrawal of certain infant cough and cold products
from the market. When used as directed, these medicines have been generally recognized as safe and
effective. However, an assessment of available data on the use of pediatric cough and cold
medicines has identified rare instances of misuse leading to overdose, particularly in infants
under two years of age. As well, these products, along with children s cough and cold
products generally, were the subject of a recent U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
Nonprescription Drug Advisory Committee hearing, which recommended to the FDA certain changes
in the marketing and

Major Consumer Franchise Sales*: 

*  
       
      Prior year amounts have been
reclassified to conform with
current presentation.  

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 

37 

sale of such products. These actions are not expected to have a significant impact on sales for the
OTC Pharmaceuticals and Nutritionals franchise.

The Skin Care franchise sales in 2007 were $3.1 billion, representing an increase of 15.9%
over 2006. The increase was primarily due to sales growth in the suncare, CLEAN   CLEAR   , AVEENO   
and NEUTROGENA    product lines, as well as new products related to acquisitions. The positive impact
on Skin Care total sales growth due to newly acquired brands from Pfizer Inc. was 5.7% for the
fiscal year 2007.

The Baby Care franchise sales grew by 13.9% to $2.0 billion in 2007. This strong growth was
led by the success of the cleanser, haircare, lotion and cream and powder product lines. An
additional contributor to the growth were the new products related to acquisitions. The positive
impact on Baby Care total sales growth due to newly acquired brands from Pfizer Inc. and
divestitures related to the acquisition was 1.8% for the fiscal year 2007.

The Women s Health franchise sales grew by 8.4% to $1.8 billion in 2007. This growth was
primarily due to newly acquired brands from Pfizer Inc. The positive impact on Women s Health total
sales growth due to newly acquired brands from Pfizer Inc. was 4.8% for the fiscal year 2007.

The Oral Care franchise sales grew by 266.5% to $1.5 billion in 2007. This strong sales growth
was attributable to new products from acquisitions and newly launched products, such as LISTERINE   
mouthwashes and dissolvable whitening strips. The positive impact on Oral Care total sales growth
due to newly acquired brands from Pfizer Inc. and divestitures related to the acquisition was
276.6%.

Consumer segment sales in 2006 were $9.8 billion, an increase of 7.5%, over 2005 with
operational growth accounting for 6.4% of the total growth and 1.1% due to positive currency
fluctuations. U.S. Consumer segment sales were $4.6 billion, an increase of 3.8%. International
sales were $5.2 billion, an increase of 10.9%, with 8.7% as a result of operations and 2.2% due to
currency fluctuations over 2005.

PHARMACEUTICAL SEGMENT 

Pharmaceutical segment sales in 2007 were $24.9 billion, an increase of 6.9% over 2006, with 4.3%
of this change due to operational growth and the remaining 2.6% increase related to the positive
impact of currency fluctuations. U.S. Pharmaceutical
segment sales were $15.6 billion, an increase of 3.4%. International Pharmaceutical segment
sales were $9.3 billion, an increase of 13.3%, which included 5.9% of operational growth and 7.4%
related to the positive impact of currency fluctuations.

The Antipsychotics franchise achieved
sales of $4.7 billion in 2007, an increase of 12.3% over prior year. The Antipsychotics franchise
includes RISPERDAL    oral (risperidone), a medication that treats the symptoms of schizophrenia,
bipolar mania and irritability associated with autistic behavior in indicated patients, RISPERDAL   
CONSTA    (risperidone) a long acting injectable and INVEGA  (paliperdone) Extended-Release
tablets for the treatment of schizophrenia. Sales
growth was positively impacted by the continued global success of RISPERDAL    CONSTA   . The patent
for the RISPERDAL    compound expired in the U.S. and most major markets outside the U.S. in 2007.
In March 2007, the FDA granted pediatric exclusivity for RISPERDAL   , which extends the marketing
exclusivity in the U.S. for RISPERDAL    oral to the end of June 2008. In 2007, U.S. sales of
RISPERDAL    oral were $2.2 billion. Loss of market exclusivity for RISPERDAL    oral is likely to
result in a significant reduction in sales in the U.S.

REMICADE    (infliximab), a biologic approved for the treatment of Crohn s disease, ankylosing
spondylitis, psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, ulcerative colitis and use in the treatment of
rheumatoid arthritis, achieved sales of $3.3 billion in 2007, with growth of 10.4% over prior
year. Growth was driven by increased demand due to expanded indications and overall market growth.
During 2007, REMICADE    received approval from the European Commission for pediatric Crohn s
disease indications. REMICADE    is competing in a market which is experiencing increased competition
due to new entrants and the expansion of indications for existing competitors.

PROCRIT    (Epoetin alfa) and EPREX   
(Epoetin alfa) had combined sales of $2.9 billion in
2007, a decline of 9.3% compared to prior year. The decline was primarily due to the declining
markets for Erythropoiesis Stimulating Agents (ESAs). Earlier in the year The Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid issued a National Coverage Determination, which significantly limits the reimbursement of
ESAs in oncology in the U.S. Epoetin alfa products in the U.S. were subject to a label change,
which may negatively impact future sales. The label for Epoetin alfa products is also under review
in jurisdictions outside the U.S.

Major Pharmaceutical Product Revenues*: 

*  
       
      Prior year amounts have been reclassified to
conform with current presentation.  

TOPAMAX    (topiramate), which has been approved for adjunctive and monotherapy use in
epilepsy, as well as for the prophylactic treatment of migraines, achieved $2.5 billion in sales in
2007, an increase of 21.0% over prior year. The major contributor to the growth was the continued
success in the migraine category. The patent for TOPAMAX    (topiramate) in the U.S. will expire in
September 2008. The Company is on target to file for the pediatric
extension with the FDA, which if obtained, would grant market exclusivity in the U.S. until
March 2009. In 2007, U.S. sales of TOPAMAX    were $2.0 billion. The expiration of a product patent
or loss of market exclusivity is likely to result in a significant reduction in sales.

LEVAQUIN    (levofloxacin) and FLOXIN    (ofloxacin) achieved combined sales of $1.6 billion in
2007, representing growth of 7.6% over the prior year. This was primarily due to favorable market
growth partially offset by increased competitive pressure. In March 2007 the FDA granted pediatric
exclusivity in the U.S. for LEVAQUIN   , which will extend the marketing exclusivity by six months
to June 2011.

ACIPHEX   /PARIET    (rabeprazole
sodium), a proton pump inhibitor co-marketed with Eisai Co.
Ltd., achieved sales of $1.4 billion in 2007, an increase of 9.5% as compared to prior year. Growth
in the U.S. was due to overall market growth. Growth outside the U.S. was due to market growth
partially offset by increased competition in certain regions.

DURAGESIC   /Fentanyl Transdermal (fentanyl transdermal system) sales declined to
$1.2 billion
in 2007, a reduction of 10.1% from 2006. This decline was the result of the impact of generic
competition in the U.S. and major international markets. Generic competition in the U.S. began in
January 2005.

CONCERTA    (methylphenidate HCI), a product for the treatment of attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder, achieved sales of $1.0 billion in 2007, representing an increase of 10.5%
over 2006. Although the original CONCERTA    patent expired in 2004, the FDA has not approved any
generic version that is substitutable for CONCERTA   . Two parties have filed Abbreviated New Drug
Applications (ANDAs) for generic versions of CONCERTA   , which are pending and may be approved at
any time.

The hormonal contraceptive franchise sales declined to $0.9 billion in 2007, a reduction of
9.0% from 2006. ORTHO EVRA    (norelgestromin/ethinyl estradiol), the first contraceptive patch
approved by the FDA, experienced a significant decline in sales as a result of labeling changes and
negative media coverage concerning
product safety. The sales decline was also a result of continued generic competition in oral
contraceptives.

In 2007, Other Pharmaceutical sales were $5.4 billion, representing a growth of 10.9% over
prior year. The biggest contributor to the increase was VELCADE   , a product for the treatment of
multiple myeloma.

In
the fiscal fourth quarter of 2007, the Company recorded a special pre-tax, non-cash charge
of $678 million for the write-down of the intangible asset related to NATRECOR    (nesiritide), a
product for the treatment of patients with acutely decompensated
heart failure who have dyspnea at rest or with minimal activity. This charge results from revised estimates of future cash flows
from this product primarily due to a recent decline in NATRECOR    sales trends. The remaining
unamortized intangible value associated with NATRECOR    was $200 million at the end of 2007. The
Company believes that NATRECOR    is an important clinical option for the treatment of acutely
decompensated heart failure and the product will continue to be marketed by Scios Inc., a
subsidiary of the Company.

During 2007, the Company launched INVEGA  (paliperidone) Extended-Release Tablets, in both
the U.S. and Europe. Additionally, in 2007 the Company launched the antibacterial, DORIBAX 
(doripenem for injection) in the U.S. and the antiretroviral, PREZISTA  (darunavir), in Europe. The Company submitted five new molecular entities for approval: paliperidone palmitate for
schizophrenia in the U.S., ustekinumab, or CNTO 1275, for psoriasis in both the U.S. and Europe,
dapoxetine for premature ejaculation in several countries in Europe, antibacterial ceftobiprole in
the U.S. and Europe and anti-HIV medication, TMC 125 in the U.S. and Europe. TMC 125 was approved
by the U.S. FDA in January 2008 and will be marketed as
INTELENCE  (etravirine).

In response to the challenges facing the Pharmaceutical segment the Company announced a
restructuring initiative in 2007. See Note 22 for additional information regarding the
restructuring.

Pharmaceutical segment sales in 2006 were $23.2 billion, an increase of 4.2% over 2005, with 3.9% of this change due to operational growth and the
remaining 0.3% increase related to the positive impact of currency. U.S. Pharmaceutical segment
sales were $15.1 billion, an increase of 4.2%. International Pharmaceutical segment sales were
$8.1 billion, an increase of 4.2%, which included 3.4% of operational growth and 0.8% related to
the positive impact of currency.

MEDICAL DEVICES AND DIAGNOSTICS SEGMENT 

The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment achieved sales of $21.7 billion in 2007, representing
an increase over the prior

Major Medical Devices and Diagnostics Franchise Sales: 

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 

39 

year of 7.2%, with operational growth of 3.9% and
3.3% due to a positive impact from currency
fluctuations. U.S. sales were $10.4 billion, an
increase of 3.2%. International sales were $11.3
billion, an increase of 11.1%, with 4.6% from
operations and a positive currency impact of 6.5%.

The DePuy franchise achieved $4.6 billion in
sales in 2007, which was an 11.7% increase over
prior year. This growth was primarily due to DePuy s
orthopaedic joint reconstruction products including
the hip and knee product lines. Strong performance
was also achieved in Mitek s sports medicine
products.

The Ethicon Endo-Surgery franchise achieved
sales of $3.8 billion in 2007, a 13.6% increase
over 2006. A major contributor of growth continues
to be endocutter sales, which include products used
in performing bariatric procedures for the
treatment of obesity, an important focus area for
the franchise. Strong results were achieved with
the continued success of the HARMONIC SCALPEL   , an
ultrasonic cutting and coagulating surgical device.
There was also strong growth in the Advanced
Sterilization Products line.

The Ethicon franchise sales grew 11.8% in
2007, achieving $3.6 billion in sales. This was a
result of solid growth in the hemostasis, women s
health, biosurgicals, and the mesh product lines.
There was also continued growth in suture sales.

Sales in the Cordis franchise were $3.4
billion, a decline of 16.2% over 2006. This decline
reflects lower sales of the CYPHER   
Sirolimus-eluting Coronary Stent due to increased
competition outside the U.S., as well as the global
contraction of the drug-eluting stent market
following reports of a potential risk of late stent
thrombosis associated with the use of drug-eluting
stents. These results were partially offset by
strong performance by the Biosense Webster and the
neurovascular businesses. In response to challenges
facing the Cordis franchise the Company announced a
restructuring initiative in 2007. See Note 22 for
additional information regarding the restructuring.

On June 13, 2007, the FDA notified Cordis that
all items outlined in the Warning Letters received
in April and July 2004 regarding Good Manufacturing
Practice regulations and Good Clinical Practice
regulations have been resolved.

The LifeScan franchise achieved $2.4 billion
in sales in 2007, an increase of 14.4% over 2006,
reflecting the continued success of the ULTRA   
product lines. An additional contributor was the
growth of the Animas business due to the launch of
the 2020 insulin pump during the year.

The Vision Care franchise achieved sales of
$2.2 billion in 2007, a growth rate of 17.6% over
the prior year. This growth was led by the
continued success of such brands as ACUVUE    OASYS ,
ACUVUE    ADVANCE  for ASTIGMATISM, ACUVUE    ADVANCE ,
1-DAY ACUVUE    MOIST , 1-DAY ACUVUE    DEFINE  and
1-DAY ACUVUE    for ASTIGMATISM.

The Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics franchise
achieved $1.6 billion in sales in 2007, a 10.3%
increase over 2006. This is due to the continued
global growth in the Immunohematology product line,
as well as the growth in the Immunodiagnostic
product line and the 2007 launch of the Chagas
screening assay in the U.S.

The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment
achieved sales of $20.3 billion in 2006,
representing an increase over the prior year of
6.2%, with operational growth of 6.4% and a
negative impact from currency of 0.2%. U.S. sales
were $10.1 billion, an increase of 6.5%. International sales were $10.2 billion, an
increase of 5.9%, with 6.2% from operations and a
negative currency impact of 0.3%.

Analysis of Consolidated Earnings Before Provision
for Taxes on Income 

Consolidated earnings before provision for taxes on
income decreased by $1.3 billion to $13.3 billion
in 2007 as compared to the $14.6 billion earned in
2006. Lower earnings in 2007 were primarily due to
restructuring charges and the write-down of the
NATRECOR    intangible asset. The increase in 2006
was 11.2% over the $13.1 billion in 2005. As a
percent to sales, consolidated earnings before
provision for taxes on income in 2007 was 21.7%
versus 27.4% in 2006. The sections that follow
highlight the significant components of the changes
in consolidated earnings before provision for taxes
on income.

Cost of Products Sold and Selling, Marketing and
Administrative Expenses:  Cost of products sold
and selling, marketing and administrative
expenses as a percent to sales were as follows:

In 2007, there was an increase in the percent
to sales of cost of products sold primarily due to
the impact of newly acquired consumer brands. There
was an increase in the percent to sales of selling,
marketing and administrative expenses in 2007
primarily due to the impact of newly acquired
consumer brands partially offset by cost
containment efforts.

In 2006, there was an increase in the percent
to sales of cost of products sold. This was due to
unfavorable product mix and higher manufacturing
costs in the Pharmaceutical and Consumer segments.
There was a decrease in the percent to sales of
selling, marketing and administrative expenses in
2006. This was a result of leveraging selling
expenses and a reduction in advertising and
promotional spending.

In 2005, there was a decrease in the percent to
sales of cost of products sold. This was due to
lower manufacturing costs primarily related to the
CYPHER    Sirolimus-eluting Coronary Stent, as well as
ongoing cost containment activity across the
organization, partially offset by the negative
impact of pharmaceutical product mix. There was also
a decrease in the percent to sales of selling,
marketing and administrative expenses. This was due
to cost containment initiatives in the
Pharmaceutical segment partially offset by
increases in investment spending in the Medical
Devices and Diagnostics segment.

Research and Development:  Research and development
activities represent a significant part of the
Company s business. These expenditures relate to the
development of new products, improvement of existing
products, technical support of products and
compliance with governmental regulations for the
protection of consumers and patients. Worldwide
costs of research

activities, excluding in-process research and
development charges, were as follows:

Research and development expense as a percent of
sales for the Pharmaceutical segment was 21.2% for
2007, 21.3% for 2006 and 20.2% for 2005. Research
and development expense as a percent of sales for
the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment was
8.5% for 2007, 8.7% for 2006 and 8.2% for 2005.
Research and development expense as a percent of
sales for the Consumer segment was 3.9% for 2007,
4.0% for 2006 and 4.2% for 2005.

Research and development activities in the
Pharmaceutical segment increased to $5.3 billion,
or 6.1%, over 2006. The compound annual growth rate
was approximately 13.8% for the five-year period
since 2002.

The increased investment in research and
development in all segments demonstrates the
Company s focus on knowledge-based products, and
reflects a significant number of projects in
late-stage development.

Restructuring:  In 2007, the Company announced
initiatives that are expected to generate pre-tax,
annual cost savings of $1.3 $1.6 billion for 2008
in an effort to improve its overall cost
structure. The Company recorded $745 million in
related pre-tax charges. This action was taken to
offset the anticipated negative impacts associated
with generic competition in the Pharmaceutical
segment and challenges in the drug-eluting stent
market.

The Company s Pharmaceuticals segment will
reduce its cost base by consolidating certain
operations, while continuing to invest in recently
launched products and its late-stage pipeline of new
products. The Cordis franchise is moving to a more
integrated business model to address the market
changes underway with drug-eluting stents and to
better serve the broad spectrum of its patients 
cardiovascular needs, while reducing its cost base.
This program will allow the Company to accelerate
steps to standardize and streamline certain aspects
of its enterprise-wide functions such as human
resources, finance and information technology to
support growth across the business, while also leveraging its scale more
effectively in areas such as procurement to benefit
its operating companies. See Note 22 for more
details.

In-Process Research and Development:  In 2007, the
Company recorded a charge for in-process research
and development (IPR D) of $807 million before and
after tax related to the acquisition of Conor
Medsystems Inc. The IPR D charge was included in
the operating profit of the Medical Devices and
Diagnostics segment.

In 2006, the Company recorded IPR D charges of
$559 million before tax related to the acquisitions
of the Consumer Health-care business of Pfizer
Inc., Vascular Control Systems, Inc., Ensure
Medical, Inc., ColBar LifeScience Ltd., Hand
Innovations LLC and Future Medical Systems S.A. The
Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc.
accounted for $320 million before tax of the IPR D
charges and was included in the operating profit of
the Consumer segment. The IPR D charges for all of
the following acquisitions were included in the
operating profit of the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment. Vascular Control Systems,
Inc., a privately held company focused on developing
medical devices to treat fibroids and to control
bleeding in obstetric and gynecologic applications,
accounted for $87 million before tax of the IPR D
charges. Ensure Medical, Inc., a privately held
company that develops devices for
post-catheterization closure of the femoral artery,
accounted for $66 million before tax of the IPR D
charges. ColBar LifeScience Ltd., a privately held
company specializing in reconstructive medicine and
tissue engineering, accounted for $49 million before
tax of the IPR D charges. Hand Innovations LLC, a
privately held manufacturer of fracture fixation
products for the upper extremities, accounted for
$22 million before tax of the IPR D charges. Future
Medical Systems S.A., a privately held company that
primarily develops, manufactures and markets
arthroscopic fluid management systems, accounted
for $15 million before tax of the IPR D charges.

In 2005, the Company recorded IPR D charges of
$362 million before tax related to the acquisitions
of TransForm Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Closure Medical
Corporation, Peninsula Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and
the international commercial rights to certain
patents and know-how in the field of sedation and
analgesia from Scott Lab, Inc. TransForm
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a company specializing in the
discovery of superior formulations and novel
crystalline forms of drug molecules, accounted for
$50 million before tax of the IPR D charges and was
included in the operating profit of the
Pharmaceutical segment. Closure Medical Corporation,
a company with expertise and intellectual property
in the biosurgicals market, accounted for $51
million before tax of the IPR D charges and was
included in the operating profit of the Medical
Devices and Diagnostics segment. Peninsula
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company
focused on developing and commercializing
antibiotics to treat life-threatening infections,
accounted for $252 million before tax of the IPR D
charges and was included in the operating profit of
the Pharmaceutical segment. The $9 million before
tax IPR D charge related to Scott Lab, Inc. referred
to above was included in the operating profit of the
Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment.

Other (Income) Expense, Net:  Other (income) expense,
net includes gains and losses related to the sale
and write-down of certain investments in equity
securities held by Johnson   Johnson Development
Corporation, gains and losses on the disposal of
property, plant and equipment, currency gains and
losses, minority interests, litigation settlements
and liabilities and royalty income. The change in
other (income) expense, net from 2007 to 2006 was an
increase in expense of $1,205 million.

In 2007, other (income) expense, net included
a charge of $678 million before tax related to the
NATRECOR   
intangible asset write-down. A gain of
$622 million associated with the Guidant
acquisition agreement termination fee, less
associated expenses, was included in 2006. In
addition, 2006 also included expenses associated
with the recording of additional product liability
reserves and the integration costs associated with
the acquisition of the Consumer Healthcare business
of Pfizer Inc.

In 2005, other (income) expense, net included
royalty income partially offset by several expense
items, none of which were individually
significant.

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

41 

OPERATING PROFIT BY SEGMENT 

Operating profits by segment of business were as follows:

(1)    
       
       See Note 11 for more details.   

(2)   
       
      Amounts not allocated to segments
include interest (income)/expense, minority
interest, and general corporate
(income)/expense.  

Consumer Segment:  In 2007, Consumer segment
operating profit increased 65.7% from 2006. As a
percent to sales, 2007 operating profit increased to
15.7%. IPR D expenses of $320 million as well as
expenses associated with the Consumer Healthcare
business of Pfizer Inc. integration were recorded
during 2006. In 2006, Consumer segment operating
profit decreased 13.7% and as a percent to sales
declined to 14.1% over the prior year resulting from
$320 million of IPR D expenses as well as expenses
associated with the Consumer Healthcare
business of Pfizer Inc. integration recorded during
2006.

Pharmaceutical Segment:  In 2007, Pharmaceutical
segment operating profit decreased 5.1% from 2006.
As a percent to sales, 2007 operating profit
decreased to 26.3% resulting from $429 million of
restructuring charges and $678 million for the
NATRECOR    intangible asset write-down in 2007. In
2006, Pharmaceutical segment operating profit
increased 8.3% and as a percent to sales increased
to 29.6% over the prior year. This increase was the
result of $302 million of IPR D recorded during
2005 partially offset by increases in research and
development spending and lower gross margins in
2006.

Medical Devices and Diagnostics Segment:  In 2007,
the operating profit in the Medical Devices and
Diagnostics segment decreased 20.9% from 2006. As a
percent to sales, 2007, operating profit decreased
to 22.3% resulting from $807 million of IPR D
expenses and $301 million of restructuring charges
in 2007, while 2006 included the gain associated
with the Guidant acquisition agreement termination
fee, less associated expenses, of $622 million. In
2006, the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment
operating profit increased 16.9% and as a percent
to sales increased 2.8% over the prior year. The
primary driver of the improved operating profit was
the Guidant acquisition agreement termination fee,
less associated expenses, of $622 million recorded
during 2006. This was partially offset by higher
IPR D charges of $239 million in 2006 versus $60
million in 2005. In addition, advertising and
promotional expense leveraging were offset in part
by increases in research and development spending.

Interest (Income) Expense:  Interest income in 2007
decreased by $377 million due to a lower average
cash balance. The decline in the average cash
balance was due primarily to the acquisition of the
Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc. on
December 20, 2006. The cash balance, including
marketable securities was $9.3 billion at the end
of 2007, and averaged $6.6 billion as compared to
the $15.7 billion average cash balance in 2006.

Interest expense in 2007 increased by $233
million due to a higher average debt balance. The
net debt balance at the end of 2007 was $9.5 billion
as compared to $6.6 billion at the end of 2006. The
higher debt balance in 2007 was due to the debt
associated with the acquisition of the Consumer
Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc. and the Common
Stock repurchase program in 2007.

Interest income in 2006 increased by $342
million due primarily to higher rates of interest,
as well as a higher average cash balance, despite
the $5.0 billion Common Stock repurchase program
and an increase in acquisition activity as compared
to prior year. The cash balance, including current
marketable securities was $4.1 billion at the end
of 2006 and averaged $15.7 billion, as compared to
the $14.3 billion average cash balance in 2005.

Interest expense in 2006 increased slightly
as compared to 2005 due to a higher average debt
balance, from $2.6 billion in 2005 to $3.1 billion
in 2006. This was partially offset by a decrease
in interest rates.

Interest income in 2005 increased by $292
million due primarily to higher rates of interest,
as well as a higher average cash balance. The cash
balance, including current marketable securities,
was $16.1 billion at the end of 2005 and averaged $14.3 billion, as compared to the
$11.3 billion average cash balance in 2004.

Provision for Taxes on Income:  The worldwide
effective income tax rate was 20.4% in 2007, 24.2%
in 2006 and 23.3% in 2005. The 2007 tax rate
benefited from a one-time gain of $267 million
related to an international business restructuring
in certain countries, as well as increases in
taxable income in lower tax jurisdictions relative
to taxable income in higher tax jurisdictions and
lower international tax rates in certain countries.
The 2006 tax rate increased as compared to 2005
primarily due to a gain of $225 million recorded in
2005, which was partially offset by a benefit in
2006 related to the reversal of a tax allowance of
$134 million associated with the international
business. The 2005 effective tax rate benefited from
the previously mentioned $225 million, due to the
reversal of a tax liability previously recorded
during the fiscal fourth quarter of 2004, related to
a technical correction to the American Jobs Creation
Act of 2004.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

CASH FLOWS 

In 2007, cash flow from operations was $15.2
billion, an increase of $1.0 billion over 2006. The
$1.0 billion increase in cash flow from operations
is primarily attributable to non-cash expenses
associated with the NATRECOR    intangible asset
write-down

and increased depreciation and amortization.

Net cash used by investing activities in 2007
was $6.1 billion versus $20.3 billion in 2006 which
included the acquisition of the Consumer Healthcare
business of Pfizer Inc. For a more detailed
discussion on mergers and acquisitions, see Note
17. There was also a $1.6 billion net increase in
purchases of investments, primarily marketable
securities. Capital expenditures were $2.9 billion,
$2.7 billion and $2.6 billion in 2007, 2006 and
2005, respectively.

Net cash used by financing activities
decreased by $0.4 billion primarily due to a $1.1
billion decrease in the repurchase of Common Stock
in 2007 and a $0.4 billion increase in proceeds
from the exercise of stock options partially offset
by $0.7 billion decrease in proceeds from short and
long-term debt. There was also a $0.4 billion
increase in dividends to shareholders in 2007.

Cash and current marketable securities were
$9.3 billion at the end of 2007 as compared with
$4.1 billion at the end of 2006, primarily due to
cash flow from operations.

Cash generated from operations amounted to
$14.2 billion in 2006, which was $2.4 billion more
than the cash generated from operations in 2005 of
$11.8 billion. The major factors contributing to
the increase were a net income increase of $1.2
billion, net of the non-cash impact of IPR D
charges and a $2.7 billion increase in accounts
payable and accrued liabilities. This was
partially offset by a $0.9 billion increase in
deferred taxes and a $0.8 billion increase in
other current and non-current assets.

FINANCING AND MARKET RISK 

The Company uses financial instruments to manage
the impact of foreign exchange rate changes on cash
flows. Accordingly, the Company enters into forward
foreign exchange contracts to protect the value of
certain foreign currency assets and liabilities and
to hedge future foreign currency products costs.
Gains or losses on these contracts are offset by
the gains or losses on the underlying transactions.
A 10% appreciation of the U.S. Dollar from the
December 30, 2007 market rates would increase the
unrealized value of the Company s forward contracts
by $245 million. Conversely, a 10% depreciation of
the U.S. Dollar from the December 30, 2007 market
rates would decrease the unrealized value of the
Company s forward contracts by $299 million. In
either scenario, the gain or loss on the forward
contract would be offset by the gain or loss on the
underlying transaction and, therefore, would have
no impact on future earnings and cash flows.

The Company hedges the exposure to fluctuations
in currency exchange rates, and the effect on
certain assets and liabilities in foreign currency,
by entering into currency swap contracts. A 1%
change in the spread between U.S. and foreign
interest rates on the Company s interest rate
sensitive financial instruments would either
increase or decrease the unrealized value of the
Company s swap contracts by approximately $175
million. In either scenario, at maturity, the gain
or loss on the swap contract would be offset by the
gain or loss on the underlying transaction and
therefore would have no impact on future cash flows.

The Company does not enter into financial
instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Further, the Company has a policy of only entering
into contracts with parties that have at least an
 A  (or equivalent) credit rating. The
counterparties to these contracts are major
financial institutions and there is no significant
concentration of exposure with any one
counter-party. Management believes the risk of loss
is remote.

Total credit available to the Company
approximates $8.0 billion, of which $6.4 billion
expires September 25, 2008, and $1.6 billion
expires September 27, 2012.

Total borrowings at the end of 2007 and 2006
were $9.5 billion and $6.6 billion, respectively.
The increase in borrowings between 2006 and 2007 was
a result of financing general corporate purposes and
the Common Stock repurchase program in 2007. In
2007, net debt (cash and current marketable
securities, net of debt) was $0.2 billion compared
to net debt of $2.5 billion in 2006. Total debt
represented 18.0% of total capital (shareholders 
equity and total debt) in 2007 and 14.4% of total
capital in 2006. Shareholders  equity per share at
the end of 2007 was $15.25 compared with $13.59 at
year-end 2006, an increase of 12.2%.

For the period ended December 30, 2007, there
were no material cash commitments. Johnson  
Johnson continues to be one of a few industrial
companies with a Triple A credit rating. A summary
of borrowings can be found in Note 6.

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

43 

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS 

The Company has contractual obligations,
primarily lease, debt obligations and unfunded
retirement plans, with no other significant
obligations. To satisfy these obligations, the
Company will use cash from operations. The
following table summarizes the Company s
contractual obligations and their aggregate
maturities as of December 30, 2007 (see Notes 4, 6
and 13 to the Audited Consolidated Financial
Statements for further details):

(1)
    Amounts do not include interest expense.  

For tax matters, see Note 8.

SHARE REPURCHASE AND DIVIDENDS 

On July 9, 2007, the Company announced that
its Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase
program, authorizing the Company to buy back up to
$10.0 billion of the Company s Common Stock. The
repurchase program has no time limit and may be
suspended for periods or discontinued at any time.
Any shares acquired will be available for general
corporate purposes. The Company intends to fund the
share repurchase program through a combination of
available cash and debt. During 2007, the Company
repurchased an aggregate of 55.8 million shares of
Johnson   Johnson common stock under the current
repurchase program at a cost of $3.6 billion. In
addition the Company has an annual program to
repurchase shares for use in employee stock and
incentive plans.

The Company increased its dividend in 2007
for the 45th consecutive year. Cash dividends
paid were $1.620 per share in 2007, compared with
dividends of $1.455 per share in 2006 and $1.275
per share in 2005. The dividends were distributed
as follows:

On January 2, 2008, the Board of Directors
declared a regular cash dividend of $0.415 per
share, payable on March 11, 2008, to shareholders
of record as of February 26, 2008. The Company expects to continue the
practice of paying regular cash dividends.

Other Information 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 

Management s discussion and analysis of results of
operations and financial condition are based on the
Company s consolidated
financial statements that have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the U.S. The preparation of these
financial statements requires that management make
estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts
reported for revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities
and other related disclosures. Actual results may or
may not differ from these estimates. The Company
believes that the understanding of certain key
accounting policies and estimates are essential in
achieving more insight into the Company s operating
results and financial condition. These key
accounting policies include revenue recognition,
income taxes, legal and self-insurance
contingencies, valuation of long-lived assets,
assumptions used to determine the amounts recorded
for pensions and other employee benefit plans and
accounting for stock options.

Revenue Recognition: 
The Company recognizes revenue from product sales
when goods are shipped or delivered and title and
risk of loss pass to the customer. Provisions for
certain rebates, sales incentives, trade promotions,
coupons, product returns and discounts to customers
are accounted for as reductions in sales in the same
period the related sales are recorded.

Product discounts granted are based on the
terms of arrangements with direct, indirect and
other market participants, as well as market
conditions, including prices charged by
competitors. Rebates, the largest being the
Medicaid rebate provision, are estimated based on
sales terms, historical experience, trend analysis
and projected market conditions in the various
markets served. The Company evaluates market
conditions for products or groups of products
primarily through the analysis of wholesaler and
other third party sell-through and market research
data, as well as internally generated information.

Sales returns are generally estimated and
recorded based on historical sales and returns
information. Products that exhibit unusual sales or
return patterns due to dating, competition or other
marketing matters are specifically investigated and
analyzed as part of the accounting for sales return
accruals.

Sales returns allowances represent a reserve
for products that may be returned due to
expiration, destruction in the field, or in
specific areas, product recall. The returns reserve
is based on historical return trends by product and
by market as a percent to gross sales.

Promotional programs, such as product listing
allowances and cooperative advertising arrangements,
are recorded in the year incurred. Continuing
promotional programs include coupons and
volume-based sales incentive programs. The
redemption cost of consumer coupons is based on
historical redemption experience by product and
value. Volume-based incentive programs are derived
by estimating sales volumes for the incentive period
and are recorded as products are sold. Promotional
arrangements containing customer acceptance criteria
are evaluated to determine the appropriate amounts
to be deferred.

In addition, the Company enters into
collaboration arrangements, which contain multiple
revenue generating activities. The revenue for
these arrangements is recognized as each activity
is performed or delivered, based on the relative
fair value. Upfront fees received as part of these
arrangements, for which no further performance
obligations exist, are recognized as revenue on the
earlier of receipt of payment or collection is
assured. If performance obligations exist, the
Company will defer the upfront fees and recognize
as earned over the obligation period.

Reasonably likely changes to assumptions used
to calculate the accruals for rebates, returns and
promotions are not anticipated to have a material
effect on the financial statements. The Company
currently discloses the impact of changes to
assumptions in the quarterly or annual filing in
which there is a financial statement impact.

Below are tables which show the progression
of accrued rebates, returns, promotions, reserve
for doubtful accounts and reserve for cash
discounts by segment of business for the years
ended December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006.

CONSUMER SEGMENT 

PHARMACEUTICAL SEGMENT 

MEDICAL DEVICES AND DIAGNOSTICS SEGMENT 

The Company also earns service revenue for
co-promotion of certain products. For all years
presented, service revenues were less than 2% of
total revenues and are included in sales to
customers.

Income Taxes:  Income taxes are recorded
based on amounts refundable or payable for the
current year and include the results of any
difference between GAAP accounting and tax
reporting, recorded as deferred tax assets or
liabilities. The Company estimates deferred tax
assets and liabilities based on current tax
regulations and rates. Changes in tax laws and rates
may affect recorded deferred tax assets and
liabilities in the future. Management believes that
changes in these estimates would not have a material
effect on the Company s results of operations, cash
flows or financial position.

In 2007, the Company adopted FASB
Interpretation 48 (FIN48),  Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an interpretation of
FASB Statement No. 109.  This interpretation
prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement
attribute for the financial statement recognition
and measurement of a tax position taken or expected
to be taken in a tax return. The interpretation
also provides guidance on derecognition,
classification and other matters. See Note 8 for
further information regarding income taxes.

At December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006,
the cumulative amounts of undistributed
international earnings were approximately $24.2
billion and $17.9 billion, respectively. The
Company intends to continue to reinvest its
undistributed international earnings to expand its
international operations; therefore, no U.S. tax
expense has been recorded to cover the
undistributed portion not intended for
repatriation.

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

45 

Legal and Self Insurance Contingencies:  The Company
records accruals for various contingencies including
legal proceedings and product liability cases as
these arise in the normal course of business. The
accruals are based on management s judgment as to
the probability of losses, opinions of legal counsel
and, where applicable, actuarially determined
estimates. Additionally, the Company records
insurance receivable amounts from third-party
insurers when recovery is probable. As appropriate,
reserves against these receivables are recorded for
estimated amounts that may not be collected from
third-party insurers.

Long-Lived and Intangible Assets:  The Company
assesses changes in economic conditions and makes
assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows
in evaluating the value of the Company s property,
plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible
assets. As these assumptions and estimates may
change over time, it may or may not be necessary
for the Company to record impairment charges.

Employee Benefit Plans:  The Company sponsors various
retirement and pension plans, including defined
benefit, defined contribution and termination
indemnity plans, that cover most employees
worldwide. These plans are based on assumptions for
the discount rate, expected return on plan assets,
expected salary increases and health care cost trend
rates. See Note 13 for further detail on these rates
and the effect a rate change would have on the
Company s results of operations.

Stock Options:  During the fiscal first quarter of
2006, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123(R),  Share Based
Payment.  The Company has applied the modified
retrospective transition method to implement SFAS
No. 123(R). Previously reported financial
statements have been restated in accordance with
the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R). See Note 10 for
further information regarding stock options.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 

In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation 48 (FIN
48),  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  
an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 . This
interpretation prescribes a recognition threshold
and measurement attribute for the financial
statement recognition and measurement of a tax
position taken or expected to be taken in a tax
return. The interpretation also provides guidance
on derecognition, classification and other matters.
FIN 48 is effective for the fiscal year 2007 and
the Company adopted it in the first quarter of
2007.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No.
157,  Fair Value Measurements.  This statement
defines fair value, establishes a framework for
measuring fair value in generally accepted
accounting principles, and expands disclosures
about fair value measurements. The statement is
effective in the fiscal first quarter of 2008
except for non-financial assets and liabilities
recognized or disclosed at fair value on a
recurring basis, for which the effective date is
fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The
Company believes that the adoption of SFAS No. 157
will not have a material effect on its results of
operations, cash flows or financial position.

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No.
159,  Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and
Financial Liabilities , which permits an entity to
measure certain financial assets and financial
liabilities at fair value. SFAS No. 159 is effective for
fiscal year 2008 and the Company will adopt
accordingly. The Company is assessing the impact
of the adoption of SFAS No. 159 and currently does
not believe that the adoption will have a material
impact on its results of operations, cash flows or
financial position.

In December 2007, FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R),
 Business Combinations , and No. 160,  Noncontrolling
Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements .
These statements aim to improve, simplify, and
converge internationally the accounting for business
combinations and the reporting of noncontrolling
interests in consolidated financial statements.
These statements are effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2008. SFAS No. 141(R)
will have a significant impact on the manner in
which the Company accounts for future acquisitions
beginning in the fiscal year 2009. Significant
changes include the capitalization of IPR D,
expensing of acquisition related restructuring
actions and transaction related costs and the
recognition of contingent purchase price
consideration at fair value at the acquisition date.
The Company believes that the adoption of SFAS No.
141(R) and SFAS No. 160 will not have a material
effect on its results of operations, cash flows or
financial position.

EITF Issue 07-1:  Accounting for Collaborative
Arrangements Related to the Development and
Commercialization of Intellectual Property . This
issue is effective for financial statements issued
for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008.
This issue addresses the income statement
classification of payments made between parties in
a collaborative arrangement. The adoption of EITF
07-1 is not expected to have a significant impact
on the Company s results of operations, cash flows
or financial position.

EITF Issue 07-3:  Accounting for Nonrefundable
Advance Payments for Goods or Services Received for
Use in Future Research and Development Activities. 
This issue is effective for financial statements
issued for fiscal years beginning after December
15, 2007. This issue requires nonrefundable advance
payments for research and development to be
capitalized and recognized as an expense as related
goods are delivered or services are performed. The
adoption of EITF 07-3 is not expected to have a
significant impact on the Company s results of
operations, cash flows or financial position.

ECONOMIC AND MARKET FACTORS 

The Company is aware that its products are
used in an environment where, for more than a
decade, policymakers, consumers and businesses have
expressed concerns about the rising cost of health
care. In response to these concerns, The Company
has a long-standing policy of pricing products
responsibly. For the period 1997-2007, in the
United States, the weighted average compound annual
growth rate of the Company s net price increases
for health care products (prescription and
over-the-counter drugs, hospital and professional
products) was below the U.S. Consumer Price Index
(CPI).

Inflation rates, even though moderate in many
parts of the world during 2007, continue to have an
effect on worldwide economies and, consequently, on
the way companies operate. In the face of
increasing costs, the Company strives to maintain
its profit margins through cost reduction programs,
productivity improvements and periodic price
increases. The Company faces various worldwide
health care changes that may result in pricing
pressures that include health care cost
containment and government legislation relating to
sales, promotions and reimbursement.

The Company also operates in an environment
which has become increasingly hostile to
intellectual property rights. Generic drug firms
have filed ANDAs seeking to market generic forms of
most of the Company s key pharmaceutical products,
prior to expiration of the applicable patents
covering those products. In the event the Company is
not successful in defending the patent claims
challenged in ANDA filings, the generic firms will
then introduce generic versions of the product at
issue, resulting in the potential for substantial
market share and revenue losses for that product.
For further information see the discussion on
 Litigation Against Filers of Abbreviated New Drug
Applications  in Note 18.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

The Company is involved in numerous product
liability cases in the United States, many of
which concern adverse reactions to drugs and
medical devices. The damages claimed are
substantial, and while the Company is confident of
the adequacy of the warnings and instructions for
use which accompany such products, it is not
feasible to predict the ultimate outcome of
litigation. However, the Company believes that if
any liability results from such cases, it will be
substantially covered by existing amounts accrued
in the Company s balance sheet under its
self-insurance program and by third-party product
liability insurance.

The Company is also involved in a number of
patent, trademark and other lawsuits, as well as
investigations, incidental to its business. The
ultimate legal and financial liability of the
Company in respect to all claims, lawsuits and
proceedings referred to above cannot be estimated
with any certainty. However, in the Company s
opinion, based on its examination of these matters,
its experience to date and discussions with counsel,
the ultimate outcome of legal proceedings, net of
liabilities already accrued in the Company s balance
sheet, is not expected to have a material adverse
effect on the Company s financial position, although
the resolution in any reporting period of one or
more of these matters could have a significant
impact on the Company s results of operations and
cash flows for that period.

See Note 18 for further information
regarding legal proceedings.

COMMON STOCK MARKET PRICES 

The Company s common stock is listed on the New
York Stock Exchange under the symbol JNJ. The
composite market price ranges for Johnson  
Johnson common stock during 2007 and 2006 were:

Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results 

This Annual Report contains forward-looking
statements. Forward-looking statements do not
relate strictly to historical or current facts and
anticipate results based on management s plans that are subject to uncertainty.
Forward-looking statements may be identified by the
use of words such as  plans,   expects,   will, 
 anticipates,   estimates  and other words of
similar meaning in conjunction with, among other
things, discussions of future operations, financial
performance, the Company s strategy for growth,
product development, regulatory approval, market
position and expenditures.

Forward-looking statements are based on current
expectations of future events. The Company cannot
guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be
accurate, although the Company believes that it has
been reasonable in its expectations and assumptions.
Investors should realize that if underlying
assumptions prove inaccurate or that unknown risks
or uncertainties materialize, actual results could
vary materially from the Company s expectations and
projections. Investors are therefore cautioned not
to place undue reliance on any forward-looking
statements. The Company does not undertake to update
any forward-looking statements as a result of new
information or future events or developments.

Risks and uncertainties include general
industry conditions and competition; economic
conditions, such as interest rate and currency
exchange rate fluctuations; technological advances,
new products and patents attained by competitors;
challenges inherent in new product development,
including obtaining regulatory approvals;
challenges to patents; U.S. and foreign health care
reforms and governmental laws and regulations;
trends toward health care cost containment;
increased scrutiny of the health care industry by
government agencies; product efficacy or safety
concerns resulting in product recalls or regulatory
action.

The Company s report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 30, 2007 includes, in Exhibit
99, a discussion of additional factors that could
cause actual results to differ from expectations.
The Company notes these factors as permitted by
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995.

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

47 

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

Johnson   Johnson and Subsidiaries  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Consolidated Statements of Earnings 

Johnson   Johnson and Subsidiaries  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

49 

Consolidated Statements of Equity 

Johnson   Johnson and Subsidiaries  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

Johnson   Johnson and Subsidiaries  

See
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

51 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION 

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Johnson   Johnson and subsidiaries
(the  Company ). Intercompany accounts and transactions are
eliminated.

DESCRIPTION OF THE COMPANY AND BUSINESS SEGMENTS 

The Company has approximately 119,200 employees worldwide engaged in the research and development,
manufacture and sale of a broad range of products in the health care field. The Company conducts
business in virtually all countries of the world and its primary focus is on products related to
human health and well-being.

The Company is organized into three business segments: Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical
Devices and Diagnostics. The Consumer segment manufactures and markets a broad range of products
used in the baby care, skin care, oral care, wound care and women s health care fields, as well as
nutritional and over-the-counter pharmaceutical products. These products are marketed principally
to the general public and sold both to wholesalers and directly to independent and chain retail
outlets throughout the world. The Pharmaceutical segment includes products in the following
therapeutic areas: anti-infective, antipsychotic, cardiovascular, contraceptive, dermatology,
gastrointestinal, hematology, immunology, neurology, oncology, pain management, urology and
virology. These products are distributed directly to retailers, wholesalers and health care
professionals for prescription use by the general public. The Medical Devices and Diagnostics
segment includes a broad range of products used principally in the professional fields by
physicians, nurses, therapists, hospitals, diagnostic laboratories
and clinics. These products
include Cordis  circulatory disease management products; DePuy s orthopaedic joint reconstruction
and spinal care products; Ethicon s wound care and women s health products; Ethicon Endo-Surgery s
minimally invasive surgical products; LifeScan s blood glucose monitoring and insulin delivery
products; Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics  professional diagnostic products and Vision Care s disposable
contact lenses.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 

In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation 48 (FIN
48),  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes     an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109.  This
interpretation prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial
statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax
return. The interpretation also provides guidance on derecognition, classification and other
matters. FIN 48 is effective for the fiscal year 2007 and the Company adopted it in the first
quarter of 2007.

In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 157,
 Fair Value Measurements.  This statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring
fair value in generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value
measurements. The statement is effective in the fiscal first quarter of 2008 except for
non-financial assets and liabilities recognized or disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis,
for which the effective date is fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The Company believes
that the adoption of SFAS No. 157 will not have a material effect on its results of operations,
cash flows or financial position.

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,  Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and
Financial Liabilities,  which permits an entity to measure certain financial assets and financial
liabilities at fair value. SFAS No. 159 is effective for fiscal year 2008 and the Company will
adopt accordingly. The Company is assessing the impact of the adoption of SFAS No.159 and currently
does not believe that the adoption will have a material impact on its results of operations, cash
flows or financial position.

In December 2007, FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R),  Business Combinations,  and No. 160,
 Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements.  These statements aim to improve,
simplify, and converge internationally the accounting for business combinations and the reporting
of noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. These statements are
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. SFAS No. 141(R) will have a
significant impact on the manner in which the Company accounts for future acquisitions beginning in
the fiscal year 2009. Significant changes include the capitalization of IPR D, expensing of
acquisition related restructuring actions and transaction related costs and the recognition of
contingent purchase price consideration at fair value at the acquisition date. The Company believes
that the adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) and SFAS No. 160 will not have a material effect on its
results of operations, cash flows or financial position.

EITF Issue 07-1:  Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements Related to the Development and
Commercialization of Intellectual Property.  This issue is effective for financial statements
issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. This issue addresses the income
statement classification of payments made between parties in a collaborative arrangement. The
adoption of EITF 07-1 is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company s results of
operations, cash flows or financial position.

EITF Issue 07-3:  Accounting for Nonrefundable Advance Payments for Goods or Services
Received for Use in Future Research and Development Activities.  This issue is effective for
financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007. This issue
requires nonrefundable advance payments for research and development to be capitalized and
recognized as an expense as related goods are delivered or services are performed. The adoption of
EITF 07-3 is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company s results of operations,
cash flows or financial position.

CASH EQUIVALENTS 

The Company considers securities with maturities of three months or less, when purchased, to be
cash equivalents.

INVESTMENTS 

Short-term marketable securities are carried at cost, which
approximates fair value. Investments classified as available-for-sale are carried at estimated fair value with unrealized gains and
losses recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Long-term debt securities that the Company has
the ability and intent to hold until maturity are carried at amortized
cost, which also approximates fair value. Management determines
the appropriate classification of its investment in debt and equity
securities at the time of purchase and re-evaluates such determi-

nation at each balance sheet date. The Company periodically
reviews its investments in equity securities for impairment and
adjusts these investments to their fair value when a decline in
market value is deemed to be other than temporary.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND DEPRECIATION 

Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. The
Company utilizes the straight-line method of depreciation
over the estimated useful lives of the assets:

The Company capitalizes certain computer software and development costs, included in machinery and equipment, when
incurred in connection with developing or obtaining computer
software for internal use. Capitalized software costs are amortized over the estimated useful lives of the software, which
generally range from 3 to 5 years.

The Company reviews long-lived assets to assess recoverability using undiscounted cash flows. When necessary, charges
for impairments of long-lived assets are recorded for the amount
by which the present value of future cash flows is less than the
carrying value of these assets.

REVENUE RECOGNITION 

The Company recognizes revenue from product sales when the
goods are shipped or delivered and title and risk of loss pass to
the customer. Provisions for certain rebates, sales incentives,
trade promotions, product returns and discounts to customers
are accounted for as reductions in sales in the same period the
related sales are recorded.

Product discounts granted are based on the terms of
arrangements with direct, indirect and other market participants,
as well as market conditions, including prices charged by competitors. Rebates, the largest being the Medicaid rebate provision, are estimated based on sales terms, historical experience,
trend analysis and projected market conditions in the various
markets served. The Company evaluates market conditions for
products or groups of products primarily through the analysis of
wholesaler and other third party sell-through and market
research data, as well as internally generated information.

Sales returns are generally estimated and recorded based on
historical sales and returns information. Products that exhibit
unusual sales or return patterns due to dating, competition or
other marketing matters are specifically investigated and analyzed
as part of the accounting for sales return accruals. Sales returns
allowances represent a reserve for products that may be returned
due to expiration, destruction in the field, or in specific areas, product recall. The returns reserve is based on historical return trends
by product and by market as a percent to gross sales.

Promotional programs, such as product listing allowances
and cooperative advertising arrangements, are recorded in the
year incurred. Continuing promotional programs include
coupons and volume-based sales incentive programs. The
redemption cost of consumer coupons is based on historical
redemption experience by product and value. Volume-based
incentive programs are based on the estimated sales volumes for
the incentive period and are recorded as products are sold. The
Company also earns service revenue for co-promotion of certain
products and includes it in sales to customers. Promotional
arrangements containing customer acceptance criteria are evaluated to determine the appropriate
amounts to be deferred.

In addition, the Company enters into collaboration arrangements, which contain multiple
revenue generating activities. The revenue for these arrangements is recognized as each activity is
performed or delivered, based on the relative fair value. Upfront fees received as part of these
arrangements, for which no further performance obligations exist, are recognized as revenue on the
earlier of receipt of payment or collection is assured. If performance obligations exist, the
Company will defer the upfront fees and recognize as earned over the
obligation period.

SHIPPING AND HANDLING 

Shipping
and handling costs incurred were $934 million, $693 million and $736 million in 2007, 2006
and 2005, respectively, and are included in selling, marketing and administrative expense. The
amount of revenue received for shipping and handling is less than 0.5% of sales to customers for
all periods presented.

INVENTORIES 

Inventories
are stated at the lower of cost or market determined by the first-in, first-out method.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL 

SFAS No. 142 requires that goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets be assessed annually for
impairment. The Company completed the annual impairment test for 2007
in the fiscal fourth quarter
and no impairment was determined. Future impairment tests will be performed annually in the fiscal
fourth quarter, or sooner if a triggering event occurs.

Intangible assets that have finite useful lives continue to be amortized over their useful
lives, and are reviewed for impairment when warranted by economic conditions. See Note 7 for
further details on Intangible Assets.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 

The Company follows the provisions of SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities,  as amended. SFAS No. 133 requires that all derivative instruments be recorded
on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded each
period in current earnings or other comprehensive income, depending
on whether the derivative is
designated as part of a hedge transaction, and if so, the type of
hedge transaction.

The Company uses forward exchange contracts to manage its exposure to the variability of cash
flows, primarily related to the foreign exchange rate changes of future intercompany product and
third party purchases of raw materials denominated in foreign currency. The Company also uses
currency swaps to manage currency risk primarily related to borrowings. Both of these types of
derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges. Additionally, the Company uses forward exchange
contracts to offset its exposure to certain foreign currency assets and liabilities. These forward
exchange contracts are not designated as hedges and therefore, changes in the fair values of these
derivatives are recognized in earnings, thereby offsetting the current earnings effect of the
related foreign currency assets and liabilities.

The designation as a cash flow hedge is made at the entrance date into the derivative
contract. At inception, all derivatives are expected to be highly effective. Changes in the fair
value of a derivative that is designated as a cash flow hedge and is highly effective are recorded
in accumulated other comprehensive

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

53 

income until the underlying transaction affects earnings, and are then reclassified to earnings in
the same account as the hedged transaction. The fair value of a derivative instrument (i.e.,
forward foreign exchange contract, currency swap) is the aggregation, by currency, of all future
cash flows discounted to its present value at prevailing market interest rates and subsequently
converted to the U.S. Dollar at the current spot foreign exchange rate.

On an ongoing basis, the Company assesses whether each derivative continues to be highly
effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows of hedged items. If and when a derivative is no
longer expected to be highly effective, hedge accounting is discontinued. Hedge ineffectiveness, if
any, is included in current period earnings, and was insignificant in 2007, 2006 and 2005.

The Company documents all relationships between hedged items and derivatives. The overall risk
management strategy includes reasons for undertaking hedge transactions and entering into
derivatives. The objectives of this strategy are: (1) minimize foreign currency exposure s impact
on the Company s financial performance; (2) protect the Company s cash flow from adverse movements
in foreign exchange rates; (3) ensure the appropriateness of financial instruments; and (4) manage
the enterprise risk associated with financial institutions.

PRODUCT LIABILITY 

Accruals for product liability claims are recorded, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable
that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated
based on existing information. The accruals are adjusted periodically as additional information
becomes available. As a result of cost and availability factors, effective November 1, 2005, the
Company ceased purchasing third-party product liability insurance. Based on the availability of
prior coverage, receivables for insurance recoveries related to product liability claims are
recorded on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a recovery will be realized.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 

Research and development expenses are expensed as incurred. Upfront and milestone payments made to
third parties in connection with research and development collaborations are expensed as incurred
up to the point of regulatory approval. Payments made to third parties subsequent to regulatory
approval are capitalized and amortized over the remaining useful life of the related product.
Amounts capitalized for such payments are included in other intangibles, net of accumulated
amortization.

ADVERTISING 

Costs associated with advertising are expensed in the year incurred and are included in the
selling, marketing and administrative expenses. Advertising expenses worldwide, which are comprised
of television, radio, print media and Internet advertising, were $2.7 billion in 2007, $1.9 billion
in 2006 and $2.1 billion in 2005.

INCOME TAXES 

The Company intends to continue to reinvest its undistributed international earnings to expand its
international operations; therefore, no U.S. tax expense has been recorded to cover the
undistributed portion not intended for repatriation. At December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006,
the cumulative amount of undistributed international earnings were approximately $24.2 billion and
$17.9 billion, respectively.

Deferred income taxes are recognized for tax consequences of temporary differences by applying
enacted statutory tax rates,
applicable to future years, to differences between the financial reporting and the tax basis of
existing assets and liabilities.

NET EARNINGS PER SHARE 

Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net earnings available to common shareholders
by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per
share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities were exercised or converted
into common stock using the treasury stock method.

USE OF ESTIMATES 

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the amounts reported. Estimates are used when accounting for sales discounts, rebates,
allowances and incentives, product liabilities, income taxes, depreciation, amortization,
employee benefits, contingencies and intangible asset and liability valuations. For instance, in
determining annual pension and post-employment benefit costs, the Company estimates the rate of
return on plan assets, and the cost of future health care benefits. Actual results may or may
not differ from those estimates.

ANNUAL CLOSING DATE 

The Company follows the concept of a fiscal year which ends on the Sunday nearest to the end of
the month of December. Normally each fiscal year consists of 52 weeks, but every five or six
years, the fiscal year consists of 53 weeks.

2. Inventories 

At the end of 2007 and 2006, inventories were comprised of:

3. Property, Plant and Equipment 

At the end of 2007 and 2006, property, plant and equipment at
cost and accumulated depreciation were:

The Company capitalizes interest expense as part of the cost of construction of facilities and
equipment. Interest expense capitalized in 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $130 million, $118 million and
$111 million, respectively.

Depreciation expense, including the amortization of capitalized interest in 2007, 2006 and
2005 was $1.9 billion, $1.6 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively.

Upon retirement or other disposal of property, plant and equipment, the costs and related
amounts of accumulated depreciation

or amortization are eliminated from the asset and accumulated depreciation accounts, respectively.
The difference, if any, between the net asset value and the proceeds is recorded in earnings.

4. Rental Expense and Lease Commitments 

Rentals of space, vehicles, manufacturing equipment and office and data processing equipment under
operating leases were approximately $302 million in 2007, $285 million in 2006 and $248 million in
2005.

The approximate minimum rental payments required under operating leases that have initial or
remaining noncancelable lease terms in excess of one year at December 30, 2007 are:

Commitments under capital leases are not significant.

5. Employee Related Obligations 

At the end of 2007 and 2006, employee related obligations were:

Prepaid employee related obligations of $481
million and $259 million for 2007 and 2006,
respectively, are included in other assets on the
consolidated balance sheet.

6. Borrowings 

The components of long-term debt are as follows:

The Company has access to substantial sources of funds at numerous banks worldwide. Total credit
available to the Company approximates $8.0 billion of which $6.4 billion expire September 25, 2008,
and $1.6 billion expire September 27, 2012. Interest charged on borrowings under the credit line
agreements is based on either bids provided by banks, the prime rate or London Interbank Offered
Rates (LIBOR), plus applicable margins. Commitment fees under the agreements are not material.

The Company filed a shelf registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission that became
effective November 13, 2006 and which enables the Company to issue up to $10 billion in debt
securities and warrants to purchase debt securities. The Company issued bonds in August 2007 for a
total of $2.6 billion and in November 2007 for a total of $2.4 billion for general corporate
purposes and the Common Stock repurchase program in 2007. At December 30, 2007 the Company had $5.0
billion remaining on the shelf registration.

On July 28, 2000, ALZA Corporation, a subsidiary of the Company completed a private offering
of the 3% Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated Debentures, which were issued at a price of $551.26
per $1,000 principal amount at maturity. At December 30, 2007 the outstanding 3% Debentures had a
total principal amount at maturity of $258.8 million with a yield to maturity of 3% per annum,
computed on a semiannual bond equivalent basis. There are no periodic interest payments. Under the
terms of the 3% debentures, holders are entitled to convert their debentures into approximately
15.0 million shares of Johnson   Johnson common stock at a price of $40.102 per share.
Approximately 11.4 million shares have been issued as of December 30, 2007, due to voluntary
conversions by note holders. At the option of the holder, the 3% Debentures may be repurchased by
the Company on July 28, 2008 or 2013, at a purchase price equal to the issue price plus accreted
original issue discount to such purchase date. The Company, at its option, may elect to deliver
either Johnson   Johnson common stock or cash, or a combination of stock and cash, in the event of
repurchase of the 3% Debentures. The Company, at its option, may also redeem any or all of the 3%
Debentures after July 28, 2003 at the issue price plus accreted original issue discount. At
December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006, the fair value based on quoted market value of the 3%
Debentures was $240.0 million and $250.7 million, respectively.

Short-term borrowings and the current portion of long-term debt amounted to approximately $2.5
billion at the end of 2007, of which $2.0 billion was raised under the Commercial Paper Program.
The remainder represents principally local borrowing by international subsidiaries.

Aggregate maturities of long-term obligations commencing in 2007 are:

CERTAIN BUSINESS RELATIONSHIPS 

A member of the Company s Board of Directors is the former Chief Executive Officer of a major bank.
This bank has provided services to the Company, for which the payments made were not significant
for either the Company or the bank in 2007, 2006 or 2005. The Company plans to engage the bank to
provide

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

55 

services, including investment banking services, to the Company in 2008. The Company does not
anticipate payments for these services to be significant to either the bank or the Company in 2008.

7. Intangible Assets and Goodwill 

At the end of 2007 and 2006, the gross and net amounts of intangible assets and goodwill were:

Goodwill as of December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006, as allocated by segment of business is as
follows:

The weighted average amortization periods for patents and trademarks and other intangible assets
are 16 years and 28 years, respectively. The amortization expense of amortizable intangible assets
for the fiscal years ended December 30, 2007, December 31, 2006 and January 1, 2006 was $844
million, $594 million and $521 million before tax, respectively. Certain patents and intangible
assets were written down to fair value during fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, with the resulting
charge included in amortization expense. The reduction in total patent and trademarks compared to
2006 is primarily due to a write-down of $678 million before tax, related to the NATRECOR   
intangible asset. The remaining unamortized intangible value associated with NATRECOR    was $200
million at the end of 2007. This

charge results from revised estimates of future cash flows from this product due primarily to a
recent decline in NATRECOR    sales trends. NATRECOR    will continue to be marketed by Scios Inc., a
subsidiary of the Company.

The estimated amortization expense for the five succeeding years approximates $753 million before
tax, per year. Substantially all of the amortization expense is included in cost of products sold.

8. Income Taxes 

The provision for taxes on income consists of:

A comparison of income tax expense at the U.S. statutory rate of 35% in 2007, 2006 and 2005, to the
Company s effective tax rate is as follows:

The Company has subsidiaries manufacturing in Ireland under an incentive tax rate. In
addition, the Company has subsidiaries operating in Puerto Rico under various tax incentive grants.
Also, the U.S. possessions tax credit, which expired in 2006, applies to certain operations in
Puerto Rico. The decrease in the 2007 tax rate was mainly attributed to increases in taxable income
in lower tax jurisdictions relative to taxable income in higher jurisdictions and lower
international tax rates in certain countries. The international tax rate also benefited from a
business restructuring of certain international subsidiaries, resulting in a one-time benefit of
$267 million, which reduced the effective tax rate by 2%.

The increase in the 2006 tax rate was mainly due to the reversal of a tax liability of $225
million reported in the 2005 tax provision which resulted from a technical correction to the
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. This was partially offset by a benefit reported in 2006 for the
reversal of tax allowances of $134 million associated with the international business.

Temporary differences and carry forwards for 2007 and 2006 are as follows:

The difference between the net deferred tax on income per the balance sheet and the net deferred
tax above is included in taxes on income on the balance sheet.

The Company adopted FIN No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  effective January
1, 2007 which resulted in the recognition of an additional $19 million of previously unrecognized
tax benefits, with the corresponding adjustment to retained earnings. The Company had $1.3 billion
of gross unrecognized tax benefits, $1.1 billion net unrecognized tax benefits, as of January 1,
2007 including the previous adjustment mentioned above. The Company classifies liabilities for
unrecognized tax benefits and related interest and penalties as long-term liabilities. Interest
expense and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are classified as income tax expense.
During the year ended December 30, 2007 the Company recognized $42 million of interest income and
$58 million of interest expense, with an after-tax impact of $10 million. The total
amount of accrued interest was $187 million and $171 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively.

The following table summarizes the activity related to unrecognized tax benefits:

Included in the unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $1.7 billion at December 30, 2007, are
$1.4 billion of potential tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the Company s annual
effective tax rate. The Company conducts business and files tax
returns in numerous countries and currently has tax audits in progress with a number of tax
authorities. The U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed the audit for tax years through
1999; however, the years 1996 though 1999 remain open while a limited number of issues are being
considered at the IRS appeals level, which the Company expects to be resolved within the next
twelve months. In other major jurisdictions where the Company conducts business, the years remain
open generally back to the year 2001 with some jurisdictions remaining open as far back as 1995.
The Company does not expect that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits will significantly
change over the next twelve months. The Company does
not expect a significant payment within the next twelve months, and is not able to provide a
reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of any future tax payments, relating to uncertain tax
positions.

9. International Currency Translation 

For translation of its subsidiaries operating in non-U.S. Dollar currencies, the Company has
determined that the local currencies of its international subsidiaries are the functional
currencies except those in highly inflationary economies, which are defined as those which have had
compound cumulative rates of inflation of 100% or more during the past three years, or where a
substantial portion of its cash flows are not in the local currency.

In consolidating international subsidiaries, balance sheet currency effects are recorded as a
component of accumulated other comprehensive income. This equity account includes the results of
translating all balance sheet assets and liabilities at current exchange rates, except for those
located in highly inflationary economies. The translation of balance sheet accounts for highly
inflationary economies are reflected in the operating results.

An analysis of the changes during 2007, 2006 and 2005 for foreign currency translation
adjustments is included in Note 12.

Net currency transaction and translation gains and losses included in other (income) expense
were losses of $23 million, $18 million and $32 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

10. Common Stock, Stock Option Plans and Stock Compensation Agreements 

STOCK OPTIONS 

At December 30, 2007, the Company had 15 stock-based compensation plans. The shares outstanding are
for contracts under the Company s 1995 and 2000 Stock Option Plans, the 2005 Long-Term Incentive
Plan, the 2000 Stock Compensation Plan, the 1997 Non-Employee Director s Plan and the Centocor,
Innovasive Devices, ALZA, Inverness, and Scios Stock Option Plans. During 2007, no options or
restricted shares were granted under any of these plans except under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive
Plan.

The compensation cost recorded under SFAS No. 123(R) that has been charged against income for
these plans was $698 million for 2007, $659 million for 2006 and $540 million for 2005. The total
income tax benefit recognized in the income statement for share-based compensation costs was $238
million for 2007, $228 million for 2006 and $189 million for 2005. Share-based compensation costs
capitalized as part of inventory were insignificant in all periods.

Stock options expire 10 years from the date of grant and vest over service periods that range
from six months to five

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

57 

years. All options are granted at the average of the high and low prices of the Company s common
stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the date of grant. Under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan,
the Company may issue up to 260 million shares of Common Stock. Shares available for future grants
under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan were 194.5 million at the end of 2007.

The Company settles employee stock option exercises with treasury shares. Treasury shares are
replenished throughout the year for the number of shares used to settle employee stock option
exercises.

The fair value of each option award was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option valuation model that uses the assumptions noted in the following table. Starting in 2006,
expected volatility represents a blended rate of 4-year daily historical average volatility rate,
and a 5-week average implied volatility rate based on at-the-money traded Johnson   Johnson options
with a life of 2 years. Prior to 2006, expected volatility was based on 5-year weekly historical
volatility rate. Historical data is used to determine the expected life of the option. The
risk-free rate was based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.

The average fair value of options granted was $11.67, $12.22 and $15.48 in 2007, 2006 and
2005, respectively. The fair value was estimated based on the weighted average assumptions of:

A summary of option activity under the Plan as of December 30, 2007, December 31, 2006 and January
1, 2006 and changes during the years ending on those dates is presented below:

The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $625.4 million, $541.5 million and $664.0
million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The total unrecognized compensation cost was $651.9
million as of December 30, 2007, $648.8 million as of December 31, 2006 and $659.6 million as of
January 1, 2006.

The weighted average period for this cost to be recognized was 1.01 years for 2007, 0.99 years for
2006 and 1.15 years for 2005.

The following table summarizes stock options outstanding and exercisable at December 30, 2007:

(1)   
       
      Average contractual life remaining in years.  

Stock options exercisable at December 31, 2006 and January 1, 2006 were 131,077 at an average price
of $50.23 and an average life of 5.9 years, and 119,390 options at an average price of $47.90 and
an average life of 6.4 years, respectively.

RESTRICTED SHARE UNITS 

The Company grants restricted share units with a vesting period of three years. The Company settles
employee stock issuance with treasury shares. Treasury shares are replenished throughout the year
for the number of shares used for employee stock issuances.

A summary of share activity under the Plan as of December 30, 2007:

The average fair value of the restricted share units granted was $60.86 and $54.17 in 2007 and
2006, respectively using the fair market value at the date of grant. The fair value of restricted
share units was discounted for dividends, which are not paid on the restricted share units during
the vesting period. The fair value of restricted share units settled was $1.8 million and $1.7
million in 2007 and 2006, respectively.

11. Segments of Business   (1)    and Geographic Areas 

(1)   
       
      See Note 1 for a description of the segments in which the Company operates.  

(2)  

(3)    
       
      Export sales and intersegment sales are not significant. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, the
Company did not have a customer that represented 10% of total revenues.  

Amounts not
allocated to segments include interest (income)/expense, minority interest and general corporate
(income)/expense.  

(4)   
       
      General corporate includes cash and marketable securities.  

(5)   
       
      Includes $745 million of restructuring expense, comprised of $15 million, $429
million, and $301 million for the Consumer, Pharmaceutical, and Medical Devices and Diagnostics
segments, respectively. The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment Includes $807 million of
In-Process Research and Development (IPR D). The Pharmaceutical segment also includes $678 million
for the write-down of the NATRECOR    intangible asset.  

(6)   
       
      Includes $320 million and $239 million of IPR D for the Consumer and Medical Devices
and Diagnostics segments, respectively. The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment also includes
the Guidant acquisition agreement termination fee, less associated expenses, of $622 million.  

(7)   
       
      Includes $302 million and $60 million of IPR D for the Pharmaceutical and Medical
Devices and Diagnostics segments, respectively.  

(8)   
       
      Long-lived assets include property, plant and equipment, net for 2007, 2006 and 2005
of $14,185, $13,044 and $10,830, respectively, and intangible assets, net for 2007, 2006 and 2005
of $28,763, $28,688 and $12,175, respectively.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

59 

12. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income  
 
Components of other comprehensive income/(loss) consist of the following:

Total comprehensive income for 2007 includes reclassification adjustment gains of $7 million
realized from the sale of equity securities and the associated tax expense of $2 million.

Total other comprehensive income for 2006 includes reclassification adjustment gains of $13 million
realized from the sale of equity securities and the associated tax expense of $4 million.

Total other comprehensive income for 2005 includes reclassification adjustment gains of $23 million
realized from the sale of equity securities and the associated tax expense of $8 million.

The tax effect on the unrealized gains/(losses) on the equity securities balance is an expense
of $46 million, $33 million and $38 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The tax effect
related to employee benefit plans was $349 million, $891 million and $160 million in 2007, 2006 and
2005, respectively. The tax effect on the gains/(losses) on derivatives and hedges are gains of $24
million in 2007, and losses of $4 million and $11 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. See Note
15 for additional information relating to derivatives and hedging.

The currency translation adjustments are not currently adjusted for income taxes as they
relate to permanent investments in international subsidiaries.

13. Pensions and Other Benefit Plans 

The Company sponsors various retirement and pension plans, including defined benefit, defined
contribution and termination indemnity plans, which cover most employees worldwide. The Company
also provides postretirement benefits, primarily health care, to all U.S. retired employees and
their dependents.

Many international employees are covered by government-sponsored programs and the cost to the
Company is not significant.

Retirement plan benefits are primarily based on the employee s compensation during the last
three to five years before retirement and the number of years of service. International
subsidiaries have plans under which funds are deposited with trustees, annuities are purchased
under group contracts, or reserves are provided.

The Company does not fund retiree health care benefits in advance and has the right to modify
these plans in the future.

The Company uses the date of its consolidated financial statements (December 30, 2007 and
December 31, 2006, respectively) as the measurement date for all U.S. and international retirement
and other benefit plans.

In September 2006, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 158,  Employers 
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  was issued and amends further
the disclosure requirements for pensions and other postretirement benefits. This Statement was an
amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R). The incremental effect of applying FASB
No. 158 was a $1.7 billion reduction in Shareholder s Equity, net of deferred taxes.

Net periodic benefit costs for the Company s defined benefit retirement plans and other
benefit plans for 2007, 2006 and 2005 include the following components:

The net periodic benefit cost attributable to U.S. retirement plans was $379 million in 2007, $423
million in 2006 and $370 million in 2005.

Amounts expected to be recognized in net periodic benefit cost in the coming year for the Company s
defined benefit retirement plans and other postretirement plans:

(Dollars in Millions)  

Amortization of net transition obligation

$ 
     2 

Amortization of net actuarial losses

132 

Amortization of prior service cost

5 

The weighted-average assumptions in the following table represent the rates used to develop the
actuarial present value of projected benefit obligation for the year listed and also the net
periodic benefit cost for the following year.

The Company s discount rates are determined by considering current yield curves representing high
quality, long-term fixed income instruments. The resulting discount rates are consistent with the
duration of plan liabilities.

The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption is determined using a building
block approach, considering historical averages and real returns of each asset class. In certain
countries, where historical returns are not meaningful, consideration is given to local market
expectations of long-term returns.

The following table displays the assumed health care cost trend rates, for all individuals:

A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following
effect:

One-Percentage-  

One-Percentage-  

(Dollars in Millions)  
       
      Point Increase  

Point Decrease  

Health Care Plans 

Total interest and service cost

$ 
     35 

$ 
     (27 
     ) 

Postretirement benefit obligation

320 

(259 
     ) 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
   
     61 

The following table sets forth information related to the benefit obligation and the fair value of
plan assets at year-end 2007 and 2006 for the Company s defined benefit retirement plans and other
postretirement plans:

Plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets consist of the following:

Strategic asset allocations are determined by country, based on the nature of the liabilities and
considering the demographic composition of the plan participants (average age, years of service and
active versus retiree status). The Company s plans are considered non-mature plans and the
long-term strategic asset allocations are consistent with these types of plans. Emphasis is placed on diversifying equities
on a broad basis combined with currency matching of the fixed income assets.

The following table displays the projected future benefit payments from the Company s retirement
and other benefit plans:

The Company was not required to fund its U.S. retirement plans in 2007 and is not required, nor
does it anticipate funding in 2008 to meet minimum statutory funding requirements. International
plans are funded in accordance with local regulations. Additional discretionary contributions are
made when deemed appropriate to meet the long-term obligations of the plans. In certain countries other than the
United States, the funding of pension plans is not a common practice as funding provides no
economic benefit. Consequently the Company has several pension plans which are not funded.

The following table displays the projected future minimum contributions to the Company s U.S. and international unfunded retirement plans. These amounts do not include any
discretionary contributions that the Company may elect to make in the future.

The Company s retirement plan asset allocation at the end of 2007
and 2006 and target allocations for 2008 are as follows:

The Company s other benefit plans are unfunded except for U.S. life insurance contract assets of
$29 million and $30 million at December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively.

The fair value of Johnson   Johnson common stock directly held in plan assets was $462 million
(4.4% of total plan assets) at December 30, 2007 and $452 million (4.9% of total plan assets) at
December 31, 2006.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

63 

14. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities 

15. Financial Instruments 

The Company follows the provisions of SFAS No. 133 requiring that all derivative instruments be
recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.

As of December 30, 2007, the balance of deferred net losses on derivatives included in accumulated
other comprehensive income was $45 million after-tax. For additional information, see Note 12. The
Company expects that substantially all of this amount will be reclassified into earnings over the
next 12 months as a result of transactions that are expected to occur over that period. The maximum
length of time over which the Company is hedging transaction exposure is 18 months. The amount
ultimately realized in earnings will differ as foreign exchange rates change. Realized gains and
losses are ultimately determined by actual exchange rates at maturity of the derivative. Derivative
gains/(losses), initially reported as a component of other comprehensive income, are reclassified
to earnings in the period when the forecasted transactions affect earnings.

For the years ended December 30, 2007, December 31, 2006 and January 1, 2006, the net impact of
hedge ineffectiveness, transactions not qualifying for hedge accounting and discontinuance of
hedges, to the Company s financial statements was insignificant.

Refer to Note 12 for disclosures of movements in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income.

CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK 

The Company invests its excess cash in both deposits with major banks throughout the world and
other high-quality money market instruments. The Company has a policy of making investments only
with commercial institutions that have at least an A 
(or equivalent) credit rating. On average these investments mature within six months, and the
Company has not incurred any related losses.

16. Savings Plan 

The Company has voluntary 401(k) savings plans designed to enhance the existing retirement programs
covering eligible employees. The Company matches a percentage of each employee s contributions
consistent with the provisions of the plan for which he/she is eligible. Total Company matching
contributions to the plans were $169 million in 2007, $158 million in 2006 and $148 million in
2005.

17. Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures 

Certain businesses were acquired for $1,388 million in cash and $232 million of liabilities
assumed during 2007. These acquisitions were accounted for by the purchase method and,
accordingly, results of operations have been included in the financial statements from their
respective dates of acquisition.

The 2007 acquisitions included: Conor Medsystems, Inc., a cardiovascular device company, with new
drug delivery technology; Robert Reid, Inc., a Japanese orthopedic product distributor and Maya s
Mom, Inc., a social media company.

The excess of purchase price over the estimated fair value of tangible assets acquired amounted to
$636 million and has been assigned to identifiable intangible assets, with any residual recorded to
goodwill. Approximately $807 million has been identified as the value of IPR D associated with the
acquisition of Conor Medsystems, Inc.

The IPR D charge related to the acquisition of Conor Medsystems,
Inc. was $807 million and is associated with research related to the discovery and application
of the stent technology. The value of the IPR D was calculated using cash flow projections discounted for the risk inherent in
such projects. The discount rate applied was 19%.

Certain businesses
were acquired for $18.0 billion in cash and $1.3 billion of liabilities assumed
during 2006. These acquisitions were accounted for by the purchase method and, accordingly,
results of Operations have been included in the financial statements from their respective dates of
acquisition except as noted below.

On December 20, 2006,
the Company completed the acquisition of the Consumer Healthcare business of
Pfizer Inc. for a purchase price of $16.6 billion in cash. The operating results of the Consumer
Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc. were reported in the Company s financial statements
beginning in 2007, as 2006 results subsequent to the acquisition date were not significant.

In order to obtain regulatory approval of the transaction, the Company
agreed to divest certain overlapping businesses. The Company completed the divestiture of the
ZANTAC    product on December
20, 2006 and the divestitures of KAOPECTATE   , UNISOM   ,
CORTIZONE    , BALMEX    
and ACT    products
on January 2, 2007.

The following table provides pro forma results of operations for the fiscal year ended January 1,
2006 and the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, as if the Consumer Healthcare business of
Pfizer Inc. had been acquired as of the beginning of each

period presented. The pro forma results include the effect of divestitures and certain purchase
accounting adjustments such as the estimated changes in depreciation and amortization expense on
the acquired tangible and intangible assets. However, pro forma results do not include any
anticipated cost savings or other effects of the planned integration of the Consumer Healthcare
business of Pfizer Inc. Accordingly, such amounts are not necessarily indicative of the results if
the acquisition had occurred on the dates indicated or which may occur in the future.

During 2007, the Company completed the allocation of the purchase price to the individual assets
acquired and liabilities assumed. The following table presents the completed allocation of the
purchase price for the Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc. as of the date of the acquisition.

The acquisition of the Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc. resulted in $6.5 billion in
goodwill, which is allocated to the Consumer segment.

The purchase price allocation to the identifiable intangible assets before the effect of any
amortization included in the current period balance sheet is as follows:

The weighted average life of the $3,690 million of total amortizable intangibles is approximately
31 years from the date of acquisition.

The majority of the intangible asset valuation relates to brands. The assessment as to brands that
have an indefinite life and those that have a determinable life was based on a number of factors,
including the competitive environment, market share, brand history, product life cycles, operating plan and the macro-economic environment of the
countries in which the brands are sold. The brands that account for over 90% of the total value of
all indefinite-life brands include LISTERINE    , NICORETTE    , NEOSPORIN   , SUDAFED   , BENADRYL   ,
VISINE     and
BENYLIN   . The determinable-life brands include
PURELL   ,
ACTIFED   ,
EFFERDENT    and
other regional or country specific brands. The determinable-life brands have asset lives ranging
from 5 to 40 years. The patents and technology intangibles are concentrated in the upper
respiratory, oral care, medicated skin care, tobacco dependence and hair growth businesses and have
asset lives ranging from 5 to 20 years. The estimated customer relationship intangible asset
useful lives, ranging from 30 to 40 years, reflect the very low historical and projected customer
attrition rates among the Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc. s major retailer and distributor customers.

The IPR D charge related to the acquisition of the
Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc. was $320 million on a pre-tax basis and $217 million
on an after-tax basis and is primarily associated with rights obtained to the switch of ZYRTEC    from U.S. prescription to
over-the-counter status. The switch was approved by the FDA effective
November 2007. The value of the IPR D was calculated using cash flow projections discounted for
the risk inherent in such projects. A probability of success factor of 95% was used to reflect
inherent regulatory risk as of the acquisition date and the discount rate applied was 11%.

The Company completed the analysis of integration plans, pursuant to which the Company is incurring
costs primarily related to the elimination of certain duplicate selling, general and
administrative functions between the two companies in areas such as global business services,
corporate staff and go-to-market support, as well as excess manufacturing capacity.

In addition to the acquisition of the Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc., 2006
acquisitions included: Animas Corporation, a leading maker of insulin infusion pumps and related
products; Hand Innovations LLC, a privately held manufacturer of fracture fixation products for the upper
extremities; Future Medical Systems S.A., a privately held company that primarily develops, manufactures
and markets arthroscopic fluid management systems; Vascular Control Systems, Inc., a privately
held company focused on developing medical devices to treat fibroids and to control bleeding in
obstetric and gynecologic applications; Group Vend me S.A., a privately held French marketer of adult and baby
skin care products; ColBar Lifescience Ltd., a privately held company specializing in
reconstructive medicine and tissue engineering and Ensure Medical, Inc., a privately held company
that develops devices for post-catheterization closure of the femoral artery.

Excluding the acquisition of the Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc., the excess of
purchase price over the estimated fair value of tangible assets acquired in 2006 amounted to $1,209 million and has been assigned to identifiable intangible assets, with any residual recorded
to goodwill. Approximately $239 million has been identified as the value of IPR D primarily associated with the
acquisitions of Hand Innovations LLC, Future Medical Systems S.A., Vascular Control Systems, Inc.,
ColBar Lifescience Ltd. and Ensure Medical, Inc.

The IPR D charge related to the acquisition of Hand Innovations LLC was $22 million and is
associated with fracture

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

65 

repair technologies. The value of the IPR D was calculated using cash flow projections discounted
for the risk inherent in such projects. Probability of success factors ranging from 38 95% were
used to reflect inherent clinical and regulatory risk and the discount rate applied was 17%.

The IPR D charge related to the acquisition of Future Medical Systems S.A. was $15 million and is
associated with the NEXTRA and DUO PUMP product technologies. The value of the IPR D was calculated
using cash flow projections discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. A probability of
success factor of 90% for both technologies was used to reflect inherent clinical and regulatory
risk and the discount rate applied was 22%.

The IPR D charge related to the acquisition of Vascular Control Systems, Inc. was $87 million and
is associated with the FLOSTAT system technology. The value of the IPR D was calculated using cash
flow projections discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. A probability of success factor
of 75% was used to reflect inherent clinical and regulatory risk and the discount rate applied was
21%.

The IPR D charge related to the acquisition of ColBar Lifescience Ltd. was $49 million and is
associated with the EVOLENCE    family of products, which are biodegradable dermal fillers. The value
of the IPR D was calculated using cash flow projections discounted for the risk inherent in such
projects. Probability of success factors ranging from 70   80% were used to reflect inherent
clinical and regulatory risk and the discount rate applied was 21%.

The IPR D charge related to the acquisition of Ensure Medical, Inc. was $66 million and is
associated with the femoral artery closure device. The value of the IPR D was calculated using cash
flow projections discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. A probability of success factor
of 75% was used to reflect inherent clinical and regulatory risk and the discount rate applied was
22%.

Certain businesses were acquired for $987 million in cash and $141 million of liabilities assumed
during 2005. These acquisitions were accounted for by the purchase method and, accordingly, results
of operations have been included in the financial statements from their respective dates of
acquisition.

The 2005 acquisitions
included: TransForm Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a company specializing in the
discovery of superior formulations and novel crystalline forms of drug molecules; Closure Medical
Corporation, a company with expertise and intellectual property in the biosurgicals market;
Peninsula Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company focused on developing and
commercializing antibiotics to treat life-threatening infections; and rights to all consumer and
professionally dispensed REMBRANDT    Brand of oral care products, such as whitening toothpastes,
strips, systems and mouth rinses.

The excess of purchase price over the estimated fair value of tangible assets acquired amounted to
$720 million and has been assigned to identifiable intangible assets, with any residual recorded to
goodwill. Approximately $362 million has been identified as the value of IPR D primarily associated
with the acquisitions of TransForm Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Closure Medical Corporation and Peninsula
Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

The IPR D charge related to the acquisition
of TransForm Pharmaceuticals Inc. was $50 million and
is associated with research related to the discovery and application of superior formulations.
The value of the IPR D was calculated using cash flow projections discounted for the risk inherent
in such projects. The discount rate applied was 10%.

The IPR D charge related
to the acquisition of Closure Medical Corporation was $51 million and is
as associated with the OMNEX  Surgical Sealant in vascular indications outside Europe and in other
potential indications worldwide. The value of the IPR D was calculated using cash flow projections
discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. A probability of success factor of 90% for
vascular indications and 60% for all other indications was used to reflect inherent clinical and
regulatory risk. The discount rate applied to both vascular and other indications was 15%.

The IPR D charge related to the
acquisition of Peninsula Pharmaceuticals, Inc. was $252 million
and is associated with the development of doripenem, which is in Phase III clinical trials.
The value of the IPR D was calculated using cash flow projections discounted for the risk inherent in such
projects. A probability of success factor of 80% was used to reflect inherent clinical and
regulatory risk and the discount rate applied was 14%.

The remaining $9 million
in IPR D was associated with the acquisition of international commercial
rights to certain patents and know-how in the field of sedation and analgesia from Scott Lab, Inc.
The value of the IPR D was calculated using cash flow projections discounted for the risk inherent
in such projects. The discount rate was 17%.

With the
exception of the Consumer Health care business Pfizer Inc., supplemental pro forma
information for 2007, 2006 and 2005 per SFAS No. 141,  Business Combinations,  and SFAS No. 142,
 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,  is not provided, as the impact of the aforementioned
acquisitions did not have a material effect on the Company s results of operations, cash flows or
financial position.

Divestitures in 2007, 2006 and 2005 did not have a material effect on the Company s results of
operations, cash flows or financial position.

18. Legal Proceedings 

PRODUCT LIABILITY 

The Company is involved in numerous product
liability cases in the United States, many of which
concern adverse reactions to drugs and medical devices. The damages claimed are substantial, and
while the Company is confident of the adequacy of the warnings and instructions for use that
accompany such products, it is not feasible to predict the ultimate outcome of litigation. However, the
Company believes that if any liability results from such cases, it will be substantially covered
by existing amounts accrued in the Company s balance sheet and, where available, by third-party
product liability insurance.

Multiple products of Johnson   Johnson
subsidiaries are subject to numerous product
liability claims and lawsuits, including ORTHO
EVRA   , RISPERDAL   , DURAGESIC    and the CHARIT  
Artificial Disc. There are approximately 4,000
claimants who have filed lawsuits or made claims
regarding injuries allegedly due to ORTHO EVRA   ,
613 claimants with respect to RISPERDAL   , 260 with
respect to CHARIT   and 49 with respect to
DURAGESIC   . These claimants seek substantial
compensatory and, where available, punitive
damages.

With respect to RISPERDAL   , the Attorneys
General of five states and the Office of General
Counsel of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania have
filed actions seeking reimbursement of Medicaid or
other public funds for RISPERDAL    prescriptions
written for off-label use, compensation for
treating their citizens for alleged adverse
reactions to RISPERDAL   , civil fines or penalties,
punitive damages, or other relief. The Attorney
General of Texas has joined a qui tam action in
that state seeking similar relief. Certain of these
actions also seek injunctive relief relating to the
promotion of RISPERDAL   . The Attorneys General of a
number of other states have indicated a potential
interest in pursuing similar litigation against the
company s Janssen subsidiary, and have obtained a
tolling agreement staying the running of the
statute of limitations while they inquire into the
issues. In addition, there are six cases filed by
union health plans seeking damages for alleged
overpayments for RISPERDAL   , several of which seek
certification as class actions.

Numerous claims and lawsuits in the United
States relating to the drug PROPULSID   , withdrawn
from general sale by the Company s Janssen
subsidiary in 2000, have been resolved or are
currently enrolled in settlement programs with an
aggregate cap below $100 million. Litigation
concerning PROPULSID    is pending in Canada, where a
class action of persons alleging adverse reactions
to the drug has been certified.

AFFIRMATIVE STENT PATENT LITIGATION 

In patent infringement actions tried in Delaware
Federal District Court in late 2000, Cordis
Corporation (Cordis), a subsidiary of Johnson  
Johnson, obtained verdicts of infringement and
patent validity, and damage awards against Boston
Scientific Corporation (Boston Scientific) and
Medtronic AVE, Inc. (Medtronic) based on a number of
Cordis vascular stent patents. In December 2000,
the jury in the damage action against Boston
Scientific returned a verdict of $324 million and
the jury in the Medtronic action returned a verdict
of $271 million. The Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit recently upheld liability in these
cases and returned the cases to the District Court
for further proceedings, including on damages.

Cordis also has an arbitration claim against
Medtronic accusing Medtronic of infringement by
sale of stent products introduced by Medtronic
subsequent to its products subject to the earlier
action referenced above. Those subsequent products
were found to have been licensed to Medtronic
pursuant to a 1997 license by an arbitration panel
in March 2005. Further arbitration proceedings will
determine whether royalties are owed for those
products.

In January 2003, Cordis filed a patent
infringement action against Boston Scientific in
Delaware Federal District Court accusing its
Express2 , Taxus    and Liberte    stents of infringing
the Palmaz patent that expired in November 2005.
The Liberte    stent was also accused of infringing
Cordis  Gray patent that expires in 2016. In June
2005, a jury found that the Express2 , Taxus    and
Liberte    stents infringed the Palmaz patent and
that the Liberte    stent also infringed the Gray
patent. Boston Scientific has appealed to the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.

PATENT LITIGATION AGAINST VARIOUS  
 JOHNSON   JOHNSON SUBSIDIARIES 

The products of various Johnson   Johnson
subsidiaries are the subject of various patent
lawsuits, the outcomes of which could potentially
adversely affect the ability of those subsidiaries
to sell those products, or require the payment of
past damages and future royalties.

In July 2005, a jury in Federal District
Court in Delaware found that the Cordis CYPHER   
Stent infringed Boston Scientific s Ding  536
patent and that the Cordis CYPHER    and BX
VELOCITY    Stents also infringed Boston
Scientific s Jang  021 patent. The jury also found
both of those patents valid. Boston Scientific
seeks substantial damages and an injunction in
that action. The District Court denied motions by
Cordis to overturn the jury verdicts or grant a
new trial. Cordis has appealed to the Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The District
Court indicated it will consider damages,
willfulness and injunctive relief after the
appeals have been decided.

Boston Scientific has brought actions in
Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany and France under
its Kastenhofer patent, which purports to cover
two-layer catheters such as those used to deliver
the CYPHER    Stent, to enjoin the manufacture and
sale of allegedly infringing catheters in those
countries, and to recover damages. A hearing in the
Belgian case is scheduled for May 2008. A decision
by the lower court in the Netherlands in Boston
Scientific s favor was reversed on appeal in April
2007. Boston Scientific has filed an appeal to the
Dutch Supreme Court. In October 2007, Boston
Scientific prevailed in the nullity action
challenging the validity of the Kastenhofer patent
filed by Cordis in Germany. Cordis intends to
appeal. No hearings have been scheduled in the
French action.

Trial in Boston Scientific s U.S. case based
on the Kastenhofer patent concluded in Federal
Court in California in October 2007, with a jury
verdict in favor of Cordis. The jury found the
Kastenhofer patent invalid and found for Cordis
with respect to infringement of the patent asserted
by Cordis in its counterclaim. Post trial motions
and appeals are anticipated.

In Germany, Boston Scientific has several
actions based on its Ding patents pending against
the Cordis CYPHER    Stent. Cordis was successful in
these actions at the trial level, but Boston
Scientific has appealed.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

67 

The following chart summarizes various patent lawsuits concerning products of Johnson  
Johnson subsidiaries that have yet to proceed to trial:

J J  

Plaintiff/  

Product  
       
      Company  
       
      Patents  
       
      Patent Holder  
       
      Court  
       
      Trial Date  
       
      Date Filed  

Two-layer  
Catheters

Cordis

Kasten- 
hofer 
Forman

Boston Scientific
Corp.

Multiple European

*

09/07 

Contact Lenses

Vision Care

Nicolson

CIBA Vision

M.D. FL
Multiple European

* 
*

09/03 
09/07 

Stents

Cordis

Ricci

Medtronic and Evysio

E.D. TX

*

03/07 

CYPHER    Stent

Cordis

Wall

Wall

E.D. TX

*

11/07 

CYPHER    Stent

Cordis

Bonutti

MarcTec

S.D. IL

*

11/07 

CYPHER    Stent

Cordis

Saffran

Saffran

E.D. TX

*

10/07 

*  
       
      Trial date to be established.  

LITIGATION AGAINST FILERS OF ABBREVIATED NEW DRUG
APPLICATIONS (ANDA) 

The following chart indicates lawsuits pending
against generic firms that filed Abbreviated New
Drug Applications (ANDAs) seeking to market generic
forms of products sold by various subsidiaries of
the Company prior to expiration of the applicable
patents covering those products. These ANDAs
typically include allegations of non-infringement,
invalidity and unenforceability
of these patents. In the event the subsidiary of
the Company involved is not successful in these
actions, or the statutory 30-month stay expires
before a ruling from the district court is
obtained, the firms involved will have the
ability, upon FDA approval, to introduce generic
versions of the product at issue resulting in
very substantial market share and revenue losses
for the product of the Company s subsidiary.

As noted in the following chart, 30-month stays expired during 2006 and 2007, and will expire
in 2008, 2009 and 2010 with respect to ANDA challenges regarding various products:

*  
       
      Trial date to be established.  

Trial in the action against Teva, Dr. Reddy s and
Mylan with respect to their ANDA challenges to
the patent on ACIPHEX    of Eisai Inc., the
Company s subsidiary Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical,
Inc. s (Ortho-McNeil) marketing partner,
proceeded before the District Court in New York
in March 2007. In May 2007, the Court held that
the ACIPHEX    compound patent is enforceable. The
Court had previously held that the patent is
valid. Teva and Dr. Reddy s have appealed both
decisions to the Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit. Mylan withdrew its appeal.

In the action against Apotex regarding
RISPERDAL    (risperidone) Oral Solution, the trial
court dismissed Apotex s challenge to the validity
and infringement of two patents relating to
formulations for an oral solution product. Apotex
appealed this decision in October 2007.

In the actions against Mylan with respect to
the patent on TOPAMAX   , the District Court in New
Jersey, in 2006, granted the motion of Ortho-McNeil
for a preliminary injunction barring launch by
Mylan of its generic versions of TOPAMAX   . In
February 2007, the District Court granted
Ortho-McNeil s motion for summary judgment
dismissing Mylan s claim that the patent was
obvious, the only remaining issue in the case. The
Court entered judgment in the case for
Ortho-McNeil, and entered an injunction prohibiting
Mylan from marketing its generic topiramate
products until a date no earlier than patent
expiration in September 2008. Mylan has appealed
this ruling. In April 2007, the District Court
entered judgment against Cobalt pursuant to its
stipulation to be bound by the outcome in the Mylan
suit. Cobalt appealed this ruling. The Court of
Appeals heard argument on both appeals in November
2007. A ruling is expected in the near term.

In the action against Perrigo regarding a
patent for PEPCID COMPLETE   , the District Court for
the Southern District of New York, in June 2007,
held that the patent was invalid as obvious. The
Company s subsidiary McNEIL-PPC, Inc. has appealed
the decision with its partners, Merck   Co., Inc.,
and Johnson   Johnson*Merck Consumer
Pharmaceuticals Co.

In the action against Barr and AlphaPharm with
respect to their ANDA challenges to the RAZADYNE   
patent that Janssen licenses from Synaptech, Inc.,
a four-day non-jury trial was held in the District
Court in Delaware in May 2007. The Court has yet to
issue its ruling in that action.

In the action against Andrx with respect to
its ANDA challenge to the CONCERTA    patents, a
five-day non-jury trial was held in the District
Court in Delaware in December 2007. The Court has
yet to issue its ruling in that action.

In the action against Sandoz with respect to
its ANDA challenge to a RAZADYNE    ER patent that
Janssen licenses from Synaptech, Inc., the action
has been stayed pending the outcome in the above
litigation in Delaware federal court. Sandoz has
challenged only one of two patents for RAZADYNE   
ER, and has certified that it will await expiration
of the second patent in 2019 before marketing its
generic version of RAZADYNE    ER.

In the action against Teva with respect to its
ANDA challenge to an AXERT    patent that Janssen
licenses from Almirall Prodesfarma, S.A., the
parties settled their dispute and the court entered
a consent judgment in January 2008.

In the weeks following the adverse ruling in
the DITROPAN XL    ANDA litigation against Mylan in
September 2005, Johnson   Johnson and ALZA received
seven antitrust class action complaints filed by
purchasers of the product. They allege that Johnson
  Johnson and ALZA violated federal and state
antitrust laws by knowingly pursuing baseless
patent litigation, and thereby delaying entry into
the market by Mylan and Impax. In late 2007,
plaintiffs in all these cases dismissed their
claims with prejudice.

AVERAGE WHOLESALE PRICE (AWP) LITIGATION 

Johnson   Johnson and several of its pharmaceutical
subsidiaries, along with numerous other
pharmaceutical companies, are defendants in a
series of lawsuits in state and federal courts
involving allegations that the pricing and
marketing of certain pharmaceutical products
amounted to fraudulent and otherwise actionable
conduct because, among other things, the companies
allegedly reported an inflated Average Wholesale
Price (AWP) for the drugs at issue. Most of these
cases, both federal actions and state actions
removed to federal court, have been consolidated
for pre-trial purposes in a Multi-District
Litigation (MDL) in Federal District Court in
Boston, Massachusetts. The plaintiffs in these
cases include classes of private persons or
entities that paid for any portion of the purchase
of the drugs at issue based on AWP, and state
government entities that made Medicaid payments for
the drugs at issue based on AWP.

The MDL Court identified classes of
Massachusetts-only private insurers providing
 Medi-gap  insurance coverage and private payers for
physician-administered drugs where payments were
based on AWP ( Class 2  and  Class 3 ), and a
national class of individuals who made co-payments
for physician-administered drugs covered by Medicare
( Class 1 ). A trial of the two Massachusetts-only
class actions concluded before the MDL Court in
December 2006. In June 2007, the MDL Court issued
post-trial rulings, dismissing the Johnson   Johnson
defendants from the case
regarding all claims of Classes 2 and 3, and
subsequently of Class 1 as well. Trial in the action
brought by

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

69 

the Attorney General of the State of Alabama making
allegations related to AWP is expected to proceed
during 2008. Additional AWP cases brought by
various Attorneys General are expected to be set
for trial in 2008.

OTHER 

In July 2003, Centocor Inc., a Johnson  
Johnson subsidiary received a request that it
voluntarily provide documents and information to
the criminal division of the U.S. Attorney s
Office, District of New Jersey, in connection with
its investigation into various Centocor marketing
practices. Subsequent requests for documents have
been received from the U.S. Attorney s Office. Both
the Company and Centocor responded, or are in the
process of responding, to these requests for
documents and information.

In December 2003, Ortho-McNeil received a
subpoena from the U.S. Attorney s Office in Boston,
Massachusetts seeking documents relating to the
marketing, including alleged off-label marketing, of
the drug TOPAMAX    (topiramate). Additional subpoenas
for documents have been received. Ortho-McNeil is
cooperating in responding to the subpoenas. In
October 2004, the U.S. Attorney s Office in Boston
asked attorneys for Ortho-McNeil to cooperate in
facilitating the subpoenaed testimony of several
present and former Ortho-McNeil employees before a
federal grand jury in Boston. Cooperation in
securing the testimony of additional witnesses
before the grand jury has been requested and is
being provided.

In January 2004, Janssen received a subpoena
from the Office of the Inspector General of the
U.S. Office of Personnel Management seeking
documents concerning sales and marketing of, any
and all payments to physicians in connection with
sales and marketing of, and clinical trials for,
RISPERDAL    (risperidone) from 1997 to 2002.
Documents subsequent to 2002 have also been
requested. An additional subpoena seeking
information about marketing of and adverse
reactions to RISPERDAL    was received from the U.S.
Attorney s Office for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania in November 2005. Subpoenas seeking
testimony from various witnesses before a grand
jury have also been received. Janssen is
cooperating in responding to these subpoenas.

In August 2004, Johnson   Johnson Health Care
Systems, Inc. (HCS), a Johnson   Johnson subsidiary,
received a subpoena from the Dallas, Texas U.S.
Attorney s Office seeking documents relating to the
relationships between the group purchasing
organization, Novation, and HCS and other Johnson  
Johnson subsidiaries. The Company s subsidiaries
involved have responded to the subpoena.

In September 2004, Ortho Biotech Inc. (Ortho
Biotech), received a subpoena from the U.S. Office
of Inspector General s Denver, Colorado field
office seeking documents directed to sales and
marketing of PROCRIT    (Epoetin alfa) from 1997 to
the present, as well as to dealings with U.S.
Oncology Inc., a healthcare services network for
oncologists. Ortho Biotech has responded to the
subpoena.

In September 2004, plaintiffs in an employment
discrimination litigation initiated against the
Company in 2001 in Federal District Court in New
Jersey moved to certify a class of all African
American and Hispanic salaried employees of the
Company and its affiliates in the U.S., who were
employed at any time from November 1997 to the
present. Plaintiffs seek monetary
damages for the period 1997 through the present
(including punitive damages) and equitable relief.
The Court denied plaintiffs  class certification
motion in December 2006 and their motion for
reconsideration in April 2007. Plaintiffs are
seeking to appeal these decisions.

In March 2005, DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc.
(DePuy), a Johnson   Johnson subsidiary, received a
subpoena from the U.S. Attorney s Office, District
of New Jersey, seeking records concerning
contractual relationships between DePuy and surgeons
or surgeons-in-training involved in hip and knee
replacement and reconstructive surgery. This
investigation was resolved by DePuy and the four
other leading suppliers of hip and knee implants in
late September 2007 by agreements with the U.S.
Attorney s Office for the District of New Jersey.
The settlements include an 18-month Deferred
Prosecution Agreement (DPA), acceptance by each
company of a monitor to assure compliance with the
DPA and, with respect to four of the five companies,
payment of settlement monies and entry into five
year Corporate Integrity Agreements. DePuy paid $85
million as its settlement. In November 2007, the
Attorney General of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts issued a civil investigative demand to
DePuy seeking information regarding financial
relationships between a number of
Massachusetts-based orthopedic surgeons and
providers and DePuy, which relationships had been
publicly disclosed by DePuy pursuant to the DPA. In
February 2008, DePuy received a written request for
information from the United States Senate Special
Committee on Aging, as a follow-up to earlier
inquiries, concerning a number of aspects of the
DPA. Depuy is responding to both requests.

In June 2005, the U.S. Senate Committee on
Finance requested the Company to produce information
regarding use by several of its pharmaceutical
subsidiaries of educational grants. A similar
request was sent to other major pharmaceutical
companies. In July 2005, the Committee specifically
requested information about educational grants in
connection with the drug PROPULSID   . A follow up
request was received from the Committee for
additional information in January 2006. On October
30, 2007 another letter was received from the U.S.
Senate Committee on Finance requesting information
concerning payments to a list of physicians, and
specification as to whether any such payments were
for continuing medical education, honoraria,
research support, etc.

In July 2005, Scios Inc. (Scios), a Johnson  
Johnson subsidiary, received a subpoena from the
U.S. Attorney s Office, District of Massachusetts,
seeking documents related to the sales and
marketing of NATRECOR   . Scios is responding to the
subpoena. In early August 2005, Scios was advised
that the investigation would be handled by the
U.S. Attorney s Office for the Northern District
of California in San Francisco.

In September 2005, Johnson   Johnson received
a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney s Office,
District of Massachusetts, seeking documents
related to sales and marketing of eight drugs to
Omnicare, Inc., a manager of pharmaceutical
benefits for long-term care facilities. The Johnson
  Johnson subsidiaries involved are responding to
the subpoena. Several employees of the Company s
pharmaceutical subsidiaries have been subpoenaed to
testify before a grand jury in connection with this
investigation.

In November 2005, Amgen filed suit against
Hoffmann-LaRoche, Inc. in the U.S. District Court
for the District of Massachusetts seeking a
declaration that the Roche product CERA, which
Roche has indicated it will seek to introduce
into

the United States, infringes a number of Amgen
patents concerning EPO. Amgen licenses EPO for
sale in the United States to Ortho Biotech for
non-dialysis indications. Trial in this action
concluded in October with a verdict in Amgen s
favor. Roche is expected to appeal.

In late December 2005 and early 2006, three
purported class actions were filed on behalf of
purchasers of endo-mechanical instruments against
the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries,
Ethicon, Inc., Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc., and
Johnson   Johnson Health Care Systems, Inc. These
challenge suture and endo-mechanical contracts with
Group Purchasing Organizations and hospitals, in
which discounts are predicated on a hospital
achieving specified market share targets for both
categories of products. These actions have been
filed in the Federal District Court for the Central
District of California.

In February 2006, Johnson   Johnson received a
subpoena from the U.S. Securities   Exchange
Commission (SEC) requesting documents relating to
the participation by several Johnson   Johnson
subsidiaries in the United Nations Iraq Oil for
Food Program. The subsidiaries are cooperating with
the SEC and U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) in
producing responsive documents.

In June 2006, DePuy received a subpoena from
the DOJ s Antitrust Division, requesting documents
related to the manufacture, marketing and sale of
orthopaedic devices, and had search warrants
executed in connection with the investigation.
DePuy has responded to the request for documents.
In the wake of publicity about the subpoena, DePuy
was served with five civil antitrust class actions.
All of those cases have been dismissed without
prejudice to the right to file them in the future.

In September 2006, Janssen received a subpoena
from the Attorney General of the State of California
seeking documents regarding sales and marketing and
side-effects of RISPERDAL   , as well as interactions
with State officials regarding the State s formulary
for Medicaid-reimbursed drugs. Janssen has responded
to the subpoena.

In November 2006, Centocor received a subpoena
seeking documents in connection with an
investigation being conducted by the Office of the
United States Attorney
for the Central District of California
regarding Centocor s Average Selling Price (ASP)
calculations for REMICADE    under the company s
Contract Purchase Program. Centocor produced
material responsive to the subpoena. Centocor has
been advised that this investigation has been
closed.

In February 2007, Johnson   Johnson voluntarily
disclosed to the DOJ and the SEC that subsidiaries
outside the United States are believed to have made
improper payments in connection with the sale of
medical devices in two small-market countries, which
payments may fall within the jurisdiction of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). In the course
of continuing dialogues with the agencies, other
issues potentially rising to the level of FCPA
violations in additional markets have been brought
to the attention of the agencies by the Company. The
Company has provided and will continue to provide
additional information to DOJ and SEC, and will
cooperate with the agencies  reviews of these
matters.

In March 2007, Cordis received a letter request
for documents from the Committee on Oversight and
Government Reform of the U.S. House of
Representatives regarding marketing and safety of
drug-eluting stents. Cordis is cooperating in
responding to the request.

In March 2007, the Company received separate
subpoenas from the U.S. Attorney s Office in
Philadelphia, the U.S. Attorney s Office in Boston
and the U.S. Attorney s Office in San Francisco. The
subpoenas relate to investigations by these three
offices referenced above concerning, respectively,
sales and marketing of RISPERDAL    by Janssen,
TOPAMAX    by Ortho-McNeil and NATRECOR    by Scios. The
subpoenas request information regarding the
Company s corporate supervision and oversight of
these three subsidiaries, including their sales and
marketing of these drugs. The Company is cooperating
in responding to these requests. In addition, the
U.S. Attorney s office in Boston has issued
subpoenas to several employees of Johnson   Johnson.

In March 2007, the Company received a letter
from the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the
U.S. House of Representatives seeking answers to
several questions regarding marketing and safety of
PROCRIT   , the erythropoietin product sold by
Ortho-Biotech. In May 2007, Senator Grassley, the
ranking member of the United States Senate
Committee on Finance, sent the Company a letter
seeking information relating to PROCRIT   . The
Company provided its initial response in July 2007.
In May 2007, the New York State Attorney General
issued a subpoena seeking information relating to
PROCRIT   . Like the House and Senate requests, the
subpoena asks for materials relating to PROCRIT   
safety, marketing and pricing. The Company is
responding to these requests.

In April 2007, the Company received two
subpoenas from the Office of the Attorney General
of the State of Delaware. The subpoenas seek
documents and information relating to nominal
pricing agreements. For purposes of the subpoenas,
nominal pricing agreements are defined as
agreements under which the Company agreed to
provide a pharmaceutical product for less than ten
percent of the Average Manufacturer Price for the
product. The Company
is responding to the subpoenas and will
cooperate with the inquiry.

In August 2007, the Company received a request
for documents and interviews of witnesses from the
Committee on Energy and Commerce of the U.S. House
of Representatives concerning GMP (Good
Manufacturing Practice) issues involving the
CYPHER    Stent. The letter states that FDA
inspectors in 2003 identified  numerous systemic
violations  of GMP s in connection with CYPHER   
manufacturing but nonetheless allowed Cordis to
continue marketing CYPHER    Stents. Cordis is
cooperating in responding to this request.

In October 2007, the Company received a
request for documents from Senator Grassley on
behalf of the Committee on Finance of the U.S.
Senate concerning continuing medical education
payments to specific physicians. The Company is in
the process of complying with the request.

In December 2007, the Company and its
subsidiary Janssen received a request from Senator
Grassley on behalf of the Committee on Finance of
the U.S. Senate for documents and information
concerning the marketing and promotion of
RISPERDAL    for use by nursing home patients. The
companies are in the process of collecting
responsive documents and obtaining the relevant
information.

With respect to all the above matters, the
Company and its subsidiaries are vigorously
contesting the allegations asserted against them
and otherwise pursuing defenses to maximize the
prospect of success. The Company and its
subsidiaries involved in these matters continually
evaluate their strategies in managing these matters
and, where appropriate, pursue settlements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

71 

and other resolutions where those are in the best
interest of the Company.

The Company is also involved in a number of other
patent, trademark and other lawsuits incidental to its
business. The ultimate legal and financial liability of
the Company in respect to all claims, lawsuits and
proceedings referred to above cannot be estimated with
any certainty. However, in the Company s opinion, based
on its examination of these matters, its experience to
date and discussions with counsel, the ultimate outcome
of legal proceedings, net of liabilities accrued in the
Company s balance sheet, is not expected to have a
material adverse effect on the Company s financial
position, although the resolution in any reporting
period of one or more of these matters could have a
significant impact on the Company s results of
operations and cash flows for that period.

19. Earnings Per Share 

The following is a reconciliation of basic net
earnings per share to diluted net earnings per share
for the fiscal years ended December 30, 2007,
December 31, 2006 and January 1, 2006:

The diluted net earnings per share calculation
includes the dilutive effect of convertible debt: a
decrease in interest expense of $4 million, $4 million
and $11 million after tax for years 2007, 2006 and
2005, respectively.

Diluted net earnings per share excludes 64
million, 43 million and 45 million shares underlying
stock options for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, as
the exercise price of these options was greater than
their average market value, which would result in
an anti-dilutive effect on diluted earnings per share.

20. Capital and Treasury Stock 

Changes in treasury stock were:

Aggregate shares of Common Stock issued were
approximately 3,120 million shares at the end of 2007,
2006 and 2005.

Cash dividends paid were $1.620 per share in 2007,
compared with dividends of $1.455 per share in 2006,
and $1.275 per share in 2005.

21. Selected Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited) 

Selected unaudited quarterly financial data for the years 2007 and 2006 are summarized below:

(1)   
       
      The first quarter of 2007 includes an
after-tax charge of $807 million for IPR D.  

(2)   
       
      The third quarter of 2007 includes an after-tax
charge of $528 million for restructuring.  

(3)   
       
      The fourth quarter of 2007 includes an after-tax charge of $441 million for the
NATRECOR    intangible asset write-down and a one-time tax gain of $267 million for restructuring.
The low tax rate is due to increases in taxable income in lower tax jurisdictions relative to
taxable income in higher tax jurisdictions.  

(4)   
       
      The first quarter of 2006 includes an after-tax gain of $368 million for the
Guidant acquisition termination fee and an after-tax charge of $29 million for IPR D.  

(5)   
       
      The second quarter of 2006 includes an after-tax charge of $87 million for IPR D.  

(6)   
       
      The third quarter of 2006 includes an after-tax charge of $115 million for IPR D.  

(7)   
       
      The fourth quarter of 2006 includes an after-tax charge of $217 million for IPR D.  

22. Restructuring 

In the third quarter of 2007, the Company announced
restructuring initiatives in an effort to improve its
overall cost structure. This action was taken to
offset the anticipated negative impacts associated
with generic competition in the Pharmaceutical segment
and challenges in the drug-eluting stent market. The
Company s Pharmaceuticals segment will reduce its cost
base by consolidating certain operations, while
continuing to invest in recently launched products and
its late-stage pipeline of new products. The Cordis
franchise is moving to a more integrated business
model to address the market changes underway with
drug-eluting stents and to better serve the broad
spectrum of its patients  cardiovascular needs, while
reducing its cost base. This program will allow the
Company to accelerate steps to standardize and
streamline certain aspects of its enterprise-wide
functions such as human resources, finance and
information technology to support growth across the
business, while also leveraging its scale more
effectively in areas such as procurement to benefit
its operating companies. Additionally, as part of this
program the Company plans to eliminate approximately
4,400 positions of which approximately 1,400 were
eliminated in 2007.

During the fiscal third quarter of 2007, the
Company recorded $745 million in related pre-tax
charges of which, approximately $500 million of the
pre-tax restructuring charges are expected to require
cash payments. The $745 million of restructuring
charges consists of severance costs of $450 million,
asset write-offs of $272 million and $23 million
related to leasehold obligations. The $272 million of
asset write-offs relate to property, plant and
equipment of $166 million, intangible assets of $48
million and other assets of $58 million.

The following table summarizes the severance
charges and the associated spending for the fiscal
year ended 2007:

*  
       
      Cash outlays for severance are expected to be
paid out over the next 12 to 18 months in
accordance with the Company s plans and local
laws.  

For additional information on the restructuring as it
relates to the segments see Note 11.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

73 

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002, management is required to assess the
effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting as
of the end of each fiscal year and report, based on that
assessment, whether the Company s internal control over
financial reporting is effective.

Management of the Company is responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control
over financial reporting. The Company s internal
control over financial reporting is designed to provide
reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the
Company s financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles.

Internal controls over financial reporting, no
matter how well designed, have inherent limitations.
Therefore, internal control over financial reporting
determined to be effective can provide only reasonable
assurance with respect to financial statement
preparation and may not prevent or detect all
misstatements. Moreover, projections of any evaluation
of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the
risk that controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The Company s management has assessed the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 30, 2007. In making
this assessment, the Company used the criteria
established by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in
 Internal Control-Integrated Framework.  These criteria
are in the areas of control environment, risk
assessment, control activities, information and
communication, and monitoring. The Company s assessment
included extensive documenting, evaluating and testing
the design and operating effectiveness of its internal
controls over financial reporting.

Based on the Company s processes and assessment,
as described above, management has concluded that, as
of December 30, 2007, the Company s internal control
over financial reporting was effective.

The effectiveness of the Company s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 30,
2007 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm, as
stated in their report which appears herein.

William C. Weldon 
Chairman, Board of 
Directors, and Chief 
Executive Officer

Dominic J. Caruso 
Vice President, Finance, 
and Chief Financial Officer  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

To the Shareholders and Board of
Directors of Johnson   Johnson:

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets and the related consolidated statements of
earnings, statements of equity, and statements of cash
flows present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Johnson   Johnson and its
subsidiaries ( the Company ) at December 30, 2007 and
December 31, 2006, and the results of their operations
and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 30, 2007 in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company
maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of
December 30, 2007, based on criteria established in
 Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO). The Company s management is
responsible for these financial statements, for
maintaining effective internal control over financial
reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness
of internal control over financial reporting, included
in the accompanying,  Management s Report on Internal
Control over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility
is to express opinions on these financial statements
and on the Company s internal control over financial
reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted
our audits in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement and whether effective internal control
over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audits of the financial statements
included examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used
and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. Our audit of internal control over
financial reporting included obtaining an understanding
of internal control over financial reporting,
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and
testing and evaluating the design and operating
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed
risk. Our audits also included performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company s internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company s internal
control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements
in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the
company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on
the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal
control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.

New York, New York 
February 20, 2008

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

75 

Summary of Operations and Statistical Data 1997-2007 

(1)   
       
      Net of interest and other income.  

(2)   
       
      Also included in cost of materials and services category.  

(3)   
       
      Includes taxes on income, payroll, property and other business taxes.  

(4)   
       
      2007 includes a $678 million before tax write-down
related to the NATRECOR      intangible asset.  

76

SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS AND STATISTICAL DATA 

Shareholder Return Performance Graphs 

Set forth below are line graphs comparing the cumulative total shareholder return on the Company s Common Stock for
periods of five years and ten years ending December 31, 2007, against the cumulative total return of the Standard   Poor s 500
Stock Index, the Standard   Poor s Pharmaceutical Index and the Standard   Poor s Health Care Equipment
Index. The graphs and tables assume that $100 was invested on December 31, 2002 and December 31,1997 in each the Company s Common Stock,
the Standard   Poor s 500 Stock Index, the Standard   Poor s Pharmaceutical Index and the Standard   Poor s Health
Care Equipment Index and that all dividends were reinvested.

SHAREHOLDER RETURN PERFORMANCE GRAPHS 
       
     77 

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 5
 y47910exv21.htm
 EX-21: SUBSIDIARIES

EX-21 

EXHIBIT
    21  

SUBSIDIARIES  

Johnson   Johnson, a New Jersey corporation, had the
    domestic and international subsidiaries shown below as of
    December 30, 2007. Certain U.S. subsidiaries and
    international subsidiaries are not named because they were not
    significant in the aggregate. Johnson   Johnson has no
    parent.

Jurisdiction of 

Name of Subsidiary 

Organization 

U.S. Subsidiaries:

Advanced Sterilization Products Services Inc. 

New Jersey

ALZA Corporation

Delaware

ALZA Land Management, Inc. 

Delaware

Animas Corporation

Delaware

Biosense Webster, Inc. 

California

Centocor Biologics, LLC

Pennsylvania

Centocor, Inc. 

Pennsylvania

Centocor Ortho Biotech Services LLC

New Jersey

Centocor Research   Development, Inc. 

Pennsylvania

Closure Medical Corporation

Delaware

CNA Development LLC

Delaware

Codman   Shurtleff, Inc. 

New Jersey

Conor Medsystems, LLC

Delaware

Cordis Corporation

Florida

Cordis Development Corporation

Florida

Cordis International Corporation

Delaware

Cordis LLC

Delaware

Cordis Neurovascular, Inc. 

Florida

Crescendo Pharmaceuticals Corporation

Delaware

DePuy, Inc. 

Delaware

DePuy Mitek, Inc. 

Massachusetts

DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. 

Indiana

DePuy Products, Inc. 

Indiana

DePuy Spine, Inc. 

Ohio

DePuy Spine Sales Limited Partnership

Massachusetts

Diabetes Diagnostics, Inc. 

Delaware

Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. 

Ohio

Ethicon Endo-Surgery, LLC

Delaware

Ethicon Endo-Surgery Services, L.P. 

Texas

Ethicon, Inc. 

New Jersey

Ethicon LLC

Delaware

Global Biologics Supply Chain, LLC

Pennsylvania

GUH Corporation

Delaware

GynoPharma Inc. 

Delaware

Hand Innovations LLC

Delaware

Innovational Holdings, LLC

Delaware

ISO Holding Corp. 

Delaware

J J Holdings (Nevada), Inc. 

Nevada

Janssen Ortho LLC

Delaware

JJHC, LLC

Delaware

Jurisdiction of 

Name of Subsidiary 

Organization 

Johnson   Johnson Baby Products, Inc. 

Delaware

Johnson   Johnson Consumer Companies, Inc. 

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Development Corporation

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Finance Corporation

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Health Care Systems Inc. 

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson International

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Japan Inc. 

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson   Merck Consumer
    Pharmaceuticals Co. 

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson (Middle East) Inc. 

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Pharmaceutical Research  
    Development, L.L.C. 

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Pharmaceutical Services, LLC

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Pharmaceutical Trading Co., Inc. 

Delaware

Johnson   Johnson Professional Co. (P.R.) Inc. 

Delaware

Johnson   Johnson Regenerative Therapeutics, LLC

Delaware

Johnson   Johnson Sales and Logistics Company, LLC

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Services, Inc. 

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Urban Renewal Associates

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Vision Care, Inc. 

Florida

Joint Medical Products Corporation

Delaware

LifeScan, Inc. 

California

LifeScan LLC

Delaware

LifeScan Products, LLC

Delaware

McNeil Consumer Healthcare Latin America LLC

Delaware

McNeil Healthcare LLC 

Delaware

McNeil Nutritionals, LLC

Delaware

McNEIL-PPC, Inc. 

New Jersey

Middlesex Assurance Company Limited

Vermont

Neutrogena Corporation

Delaware

Nitinol Development Corporation

California

Noramco, Inc. 

Georgia

OMJ Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 

Delaware

OraPharma, Inc. 

Delaware

Ortho Biologics LLC

Delaware

Ortho Biotech Holding Corp. 

Delaware

Ortho Biotech Inc. 

New Jersey

Ortho Biotech Products, L.P. 

New Jersey

Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc. 

New York

Ortho-McNeil Finance Co. 

Florida

Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 

Pennsylvania

Rutan Realty LLC

New Jersey

Scios Inc. 

Delaware

TERAMed Corporation

Delaware

Therapeutic Discovery Corporation

Delaware

The Tylenol Company

New Jersey

TransForm Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 

Delaware

W V Resources, Inc. 

Delaware

Jurisdiction of 

Name of Subsidiary 

Organization 

International Subsidiaries:

Alza Ireland Limited

Ireland

Apsis S.A.S. 

France

Carlo Erba OTC S.r.l. 

Italy

Centocor Biologics (Ireland) Limited

Ireland

Centocor B.V. 

Netherlands

Cilag Advanced Technologies GmbH

Switzerland

Cilag AG

Switzerland

Cilag de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.

Mexico

Cilag GmbH International

Switzerland

Cilag Holding AG

Switzerland

Cilag Pharmaceuticals GmbH

Switzerland

Codman Sarl

Switzerland

ColBar LifeScience Ltd. 

Israel

Cordis Cashel Limited

Ireland

Cordis Europa N.V. 

Netherlands

Cordis Medizinische Apparate GmbH 

Germany

Cordis S.A.S. 

France

DePuy Ace Sarl 

Switzerland

DePuy France S.A.S. 

France

DePuy International Limited

United Kingdom

DePuy International (Holdings) Limited

United Kingdom

DePuy (Ireland) Limited

Ireland

DePuy Mitek Sarl

Switzerland

DePuy Orthopadie GmbH

Germany

DePuy Orthopedie S.A.S. 

France

DePuy Spine Sarl 

Switzerland

DePuy UK Holdings Limited

United Kingdom

Drumbeat Limited

United Kingdom

EES Holdings de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C. V.

Mexico

EES, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico

Ethicon GmbH

Germany

Ethicon Ireland Limited

Ireland

Ethicon Sarl

Switzerland

Ethicon SAS

France

Ethicon Women s Health   Urology Sarl

Switzerland

Ethnor Del Istmo S.A. 

Panama

Ethnor Farmaceutica, S.A. 

Venezuela

Ethnor (Proprietary) Limited

South Africa

FMS Future Medical System SA

Switzerland

GMED Health Care Limited

Ireland

Group Vend me SAS

France

High Wycombe Property Management Limited

United Kingdom

Janssen-Cilag AB

Sweden

Janssen-Cilag A/S

Denmark

Janssen-Cilag AG

Switzerland

Janssen-Cilag B.V. 

Netherlands

Janssen-Cilag Farmaceutica, Lda. 

Portugal

Jurisdiction of 

Name of Subsidiary 

Organization 

Janssen-Cilag Farmaceutica Ltda. 

Brazil

Janssen-Cilag GmbH

Germany

Janssen-Cilag Ltd. 

Thailand

Janssen-Cilag Limited 

United Kingdom

Janssen-Cilag NV 

Belgium

Janssen-Cilag OY

Finland

Janssen-Cilag Pharmaceutical S.A.C.I. 

Greece

Janssen-Cilag Pharma GmbH

Austria

Janssen-Cilag Polska, Sp. z o.o. 

Poland

Janssen-Cilag Pty. Ltd. 

Australia

Janssen-Cilag, S.A. 

Spain

Janssen-Cilag, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico

Janssen-Cilag S.A.S. 

France

Janssen-Cilag S.p.A. 

Italy

Janssen Korea Ltd. 

Korea

Janssen-Ortho Inc. 

Canada

Janssen Pharmaceutica NV 

Belgium

Janssen Pharmaceutica (Pty) Limited

South Africa

Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K. 

Japan

Janssen Pharmaceutical Limited

Ireland

J.C. General Services CVBA

Belgium

J-C Healthcare Ltd. 

Israel

JHC Nederland B.V. 

Netherlands

Johnson   Johnson AB

Sweden

Johnson   Johnson AG

Switzerland

Johnson   Johnson (China) Investment Co.,
    Ltd. 

China

Johnson   Johnson (China) Ltd. 

China

Johnson   Johnson Consumer France SAS 

France

Johnson   Johnson Consumer (Hong Kong) Limited

Hong Kong

Johnson   Johnson de Argentina S.A.C.e I. 

Argentina

Johnson   Johnson de Colombia S.A. 

Colombia

Johnson   Johnson de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico

Johnson   Johnson de Venezuela, S.A. 

Venezuela

Johnson   Johnson del Peru S.A. 

Peru

Johnson   Johnson do Brasil Industria E Comercio de
    Produtos Para Saude Ltda. 

Brazil

Johnson   Johnson European Treasury Company

Ireland

Johnson   Johnson (Egypt) S.A.E. 

Egypt

Johnson   Johnson Finance Limited

United Kingdom

Johnson   Johnson Financial Services GmbH

Germany

Johnson   Johnson Gesellschaft m.b.H.

Austria

Johnson   Johnson GmbH

Germany

Johnson   Johnson Group Holdings G.m.b.H 

Germany

Johnson   Johnson Hellas S.A. 

Greece

Johnson   Johnson Hemisferica S.A. 

Puerto Rico

Johnson   Johnson Holding AB

Sweden

Johnson   Johnson Holding GmbH

Germany

Johnson   Johnson (Hong Kong) Limited

Hong Kong

Johnson   Johnson Inc. 

Canada

Jurisdiction of 

Name of Subsidiary 

Organization 

Johnson   Johnson Industrial Ltda. 

Brazil

Johnson   Johnson International Financial Services Company

Ireland

Johnson   Johnson Kft. 

Hungary

Johnson   Johnson K. K. 

Japan

Johnson   Johnson Korea, Ltd. 

Korea

Johnson   Johnson Limitada

Portugal

Johnson   Johnson Limited

India

Johnson   Johnson LLC

Russia

Johnson   Johnson Luxembourg Finance Company Sarl

Luxembourg

Johnson   Johnson Management Limited

United Kingdom

Johnson   Johnson Medical B.V. 

Netherlands

Johnson   Johnson Medical (China) Ltd. 

China

Johnson   Johnson Medical
    Holding S.p.A. 

Italy

Johnson   Johnson Medical Korea Limited

Korea

Johnson   Johnson Medical Limited

United Kingdom

Johnson   Johnson Medical Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico

Johnson   Johnson Medical NV

Belgium

Johnson   Johnson Medical Products GmbH

Austria

Johnson   Johnson Medical (Pty) Limited 

South Africa

Johnson   Johnson Medical Pty Ltd. 

Australia

Johnson   Johnson Medical (Shanghai) Ltd. 

China

Johnson   Johnson Medical S.p.A. 

Italy

Johnson   Johnson Medical (Suzhou) Ltd. 

China

Johnson   Johnson Pacific Pty. Limited 

Australia

Johnson   Johnson Pakistan (Private) Limited

Pakistan

Johnson   Johnson (Philippines), Inc. 

Philippines

Johnson   Johnson Poland Sp. z o.o 

Poland

Johnson   Johnson (Proprietary) Limited

South Africa

Johnson   Johnson Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore

Johnson   Johnson Pty. Limited

Australia

Johnson   Johnson S.A. 

Spain

Johnson   Johnson SDN. BHD. 

Malaysia

Johnson   Johnson S.p.A 

Italy

Johnson   Johnson, s.r.o. 

Czech Republic

Johnson   Johnson, s.r.o. 

Slovakia

Johnson   Johnson Swiss Finance Company Limited 

United Kingdom

Johnson   Johnson Taiwan Ltd. 

Taiwan

Johnson   Johnson (Thailand) Ltd.

Thailand

Johnson   Johnson Vision Care (Ireland) Limited 

Ireland

Johnson   Johnson Vision Care (Shanghai) Ltd. 

China

Laboratoires Polive S.N.C. 

France

Laboratoires Vendome, SAS

France

Latam International Investment Company

Ireland

Latam Properties Holdings

Ireland

Lifescan Canada Ltd. 

Canada

Lifescan Scotland Limited

United Kingdom

McNeil AB

Sweden

McNeil Comm. VA

Belgium

Jurisdiction of 

Name of Subsidiary 

Organization 

McNeil Consumer Healthcare GmbH

Germany

McNeil Denmark ApS

Denmark

McNeil Esbjerg ApS

Denmark

McNeil GmbH   Co. oHG

Germany

McNeil Healthcare (UK) Limited

United Kingdom

McNeil Iberica S.L.U. 

Spain

McNEIL PDI Inc. 

Canada

McNeil Products Limited

United Kingdom

McNeil Sante Grand Public

France

McNeil Sweden AB

Sweden

Medos International Sarl

Switzerland

Medos Sarl

Switzerland

OBTECH Medical Sarl

Switzerland

OMJ Ireland Limited

Ireland

OMJ Manufacturing Limited

Ireland

Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics

United Kingdom

Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics GmbH

Germany

Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics K.K. 

Japan

Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics NV

Belgium

Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics S.A.S. 

France

Pfizer Consumer Healthcare Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.*

Mexico

Pfizer Consumer Healthcare S.com.p.A*

Spain

Pfizer Consumer Healthcare S.r.l.*

Italy

P.T. Johnson   Johnson Indonesia

Indonesia

Shanghai Johnson   Johnson Pharmaceuticals, Ltd.

China

Tasmanian Alkaloids Pty. Ltd. 

Australia

Tibotec Pharmaceuticals Limited 

Ireland

Tibotec-Virco Comm. VA

Belgium

Tibotec-Virco Virology BVBA

Belgium

Turnbuckle Investment Company

Ireland

Vania Expansion, S.N.C.

France

Xian-Janssen Pharmaceutical Ltd. 

China

*  
     
    Recently acquired. Name change pending.

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 6
 y47910exv23.htm
 EX-23: CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

EX-23 

EXHIBIT
    23  

CONSENT
    OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the
    Registration Statements on Form
     S-8 
     (No. 333-129542, 
     333-124785, 
     333-106007, 
     333-104828, 
     333-96541, 
     333-87736, 
     333-67370, 
     333-59380, 
     333-39238, 
     333-94367, 
     333-86611, 
     333-40681, 
     333-38055, 
     333-26979, 
     333-00391, 
     33-59009, 
     33-57583, 
     33-52252, 
     33-40295, 
     33-40294, 
     33-32875) 
    and
     Form S-3 
     (No. 333-138649, 
     333-111082, 
     333-104821, 
     333-67020, 
     333-91349, 
     33-55977, 
     33-47424)  of
    Johnson   Johnson of our report dated February 20,
    2008 relating to the financial statements and the effectiveness
    of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in
    the Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated in this
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report
    dated February 20, 2008 relating to the financial statement
    schedule, which appears in this
     Form 10-K. 

/s/   PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP 

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

New York, New York

February 25, 2008

</EX-23>

<EX-31.A>
 7
 y47910exv31wa.htm
 EX-31.A: CERTIFICATION

EX-31.A 

EXHIBIT
    31(a)  

CERTIFICATION
    OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  

PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT 

I, William C. Weldon, certify that:

1.  I have reviewed this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2007 (the
     report ) of Johnson   Johnson (the
     Company 

2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not
    contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state
    a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light
    of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements,
    and other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of, and
    for, the periods presented in this report;

4.  The Company s other certifying officer(s) and
    I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
    defined in Exchange Act Rules
     13a-15(f) 
    and 15d-15(f)) for the Company and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the Company, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared;

b) Designed such internal control  over financial
    reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
    reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
    external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles;

c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the Company s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and

d) Disclosed in this report any change in the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the Company s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the Company s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control
    over financial reporting; and

5.  The Company s other certifying officer(s) and
    I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
    internal control over financial reporting, to the Company s
    auditors and the audit committee of the Company s board of
    directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    Company s ability to record, process, summarize and report
    financial information; and

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/   William
    C. Weldon 

William C. Weldon

Chief Executive Officer 

Date: February 19, 2008

</EX-31.A>

<EX-31.B>
 8
 y47910exv31wb.htm
 EX-31.B: CERTIFICATION

EX-31.B 

EXHIBIT
    31(b)  

CERTIFICATION
    OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER  

PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT 

I, Dominic J. Caruso, certify that:

1.  I have reviewed this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2007 (the
     report ) of Johnson   Johnson (the
     Company 

2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not
    contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state
    a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light
    of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements,
    and other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of, and
    for, the periods presented in this report;

4.  The Company s other certifying officer(s) and
    I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
    defined in Exchange Act Rules
     13a-15(f) 
    and 15d-15(f)) for the Company and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the Company, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared;

b) Designed such internal control  over financial
    reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
    reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
    external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles;

c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the Company s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and

d) Disclosed in this report any change in the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the Company s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the Company s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control
    over financial reporting; and

5.  The Company s other certifying officer(s) and
    I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
    internal control over financial reporting, to the Company s
    auditors and the audit committee of the Company s board of
    directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    Company s ability to record, process, summarize and report
    financial information; and

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/   Dominic
    J. Caruso 

Dominic J. Caruso

Chief Financial Officer 

Date: February 15, 2008

</EX-31.B>

<EX-32.A>
 9
 y47910exv32wa.htm
 EX-32.A: CERTIFICATION

EX-32.A 

EXHIBIT
    32(a)  

CERTIFICATION
    OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  

PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT 

The undersigned, William C. Weldon, the Chief Executive Officer
    of Johnson   Johnson, a New Jersey corporation (the
     Company ), pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as
    adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
    of 2002, hereby certifies that, to the best of my knowledge:

(1) the Company s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2007 (the
     Report ) fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) the information contained in the Report fairly
    presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
    results of operations of the Company.

/s/   William
    C. Weldon 

William C. Weldon

Chief Executive Officer 

Dated: February 19, 2008

This certification is being furnished to the SEC with this
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
    and shall not, except to the extent required by such Act, be
    deemed filed by the Company for purposes of Section 18 of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise
    subject to the liability of that section.

</EX-32.A>

<EX-32.B>
 10
 y47910exv32wb.htm
 EX-32.B: CERTIFICATION

EX-32.B 

EXHIBIT
    32(b)  

CERTIFICATION
    OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER  

PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT 

The undersigned, Dominic J. Caruso, the Chief Financial Officer
    of Johnson   Johnson, a New Jersey corporation (the
     Company ), pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as
    adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
    of 2002, hereby certifies that, to the best of my knowledge:

(1) the Company s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2007 (the
     Report ) fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) the information contained in the Report fairly
    presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
    results of operations of the Company.

/s/   Dominic
    J. Caruso 

Dominic J. Caruso

Chief Financial Officer 

Dated: February 15, 2008

This certification is being furnished to the SEC with this
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
    and shall not, except to the extent required by such Act, be
    deemed filed by the Company for purposes of Section 18 of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise
    subject to the liability of that section.

</EX-32.B>

<EX-99>
 11
 y47910exv99.htm
 EX-99: CAUTIONARY STATEMENT

EX-99 

EXHIBIT
    99  

CAUTIONARY
    STATEMENT PURSUANT TO PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION
    REFORM  

ACT OF 1995    SAFE HARBOR  FOR
    FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

The Company may from time to time make certain forward-looking
    statements in publicly-released materials, both written and
    oral. Forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to
    historical or current facts and anticipate results based on
    management s plans that are subject to uncertainty.
    Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of words
    such as  plans,   expects, 
     will,   anticipates,   estimates 
    and other words of similar meaning in conjunction with, among
    other things, discussions of future operations, financial
    performance, the Company s strategy for growth, product
    development, regulatory approvals, market position and
    expenditures.

Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations of
    future events. The Company cannot guarantee that any
    forward-looking statement will be accurate, although the Company
    believes that it has been reasonable in its expectations and
    assumptions. Investors should realize that if underlying
    assumptions prove inaccurate or unknown risks or uncertainties
    materialize, actual results could vary materially from the
    Company s expectations and projections. Investors are
    therefore cautioned not to place undue reliance on any
    forward-looking statements. Furthermore, the Company does not
    undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result
    of new information or future events or developments.

Some important factors that could cause the Company s
    actual results to differ from the Company s expectations in
    any forward-looking statements are as follows:

Economic factors, including inflation and fluctuations in
    interest rates and currency exchange rates and the potential
    effect of such fluctuations on revenues, expenses and resulting
    margins;

Competitive factors, including technological advances achieved
    and patents attained by competitors as well as new products
    introduced by competitors;

Challenges to the Company s patents by competitors or
    allegations that the Company s products infringe the
    patents of third parties, which could potentially affect the
    Company s competitive position and ability to sell the
    products in question and require the payment of past damages and
    future royalties. In particular, generic drug firms have filed
    Abbreviated New Drug Applications seeking to market generic
    forms of most of the Company s key pharmaceutical products,
    prior to expiration of the applicable patents covering those
    products. In the event that the Company is not successful in
    defending the resulting lawsuits, generic versions of the
    product at issue will be introduced, resulting in very
    substantial market share and revenue losses;

Financial distress and bankruptcies experienced by significant
    customers and suppliers that could impair their ability, as the
    case may be, to purchase the Company s products, pay for
    products previously purchased or meet their obligations to the
    Company under supply arrangements;

The impact on political and economic conditions due to terrorist
    attacks in the U.S. and other parts of the world or U.S.
    military action overseas, as well as instability in the
    financial markets which could result from such terrorism or
    military actions;

Interruptions of computer and communication systems, including
    computer viruses, that could impair the Company s ability
    to conduct business and communicate internally and with its
    customers;

Health care changes in the U.S. and other countries resulting in
    pricing pressures, including the continued consolidation among
    health care providers, trends toward managed care and health
    care cost containment, the shift towards governments becoming
    the primary payers of health care expenses and government laws
    and regulations relating to sales and promotion, reimbursement
    and pricing generally;

Government laws and regulations, affecting U.S. and foreign
    operations, including those relating to securities laws
    compliance, trade, monetary and fiscal policies, taxes, price
    controls, regulatory approval of new products, licensing and
    patent rights, and possible drug reimportation legislation;

Competition in research, involving the development and the
    improvement of new and existing products and processes, is
    particularly significant and results from time to time in
    product and process obsolescence.

The development of new and improved products is important to the
    Company s success in all areas of its business;

Challenges and difficulties inherent in product development,
    including the potential inability to successfully continue
    technological innovation, complete clinical trials, obtain
    regulatory approvals in the United States and abroad, gain and
    maintain market approval of products and the possibility of
    encountering infringement claims by competitors with respect to
    patent or other intellectual property rights which can preclude
    or delay commercialization of a product;

Significant litigation adverse to the Company including product
    liability claims, patent infringement claims and antitrust
    claims;

The health care industry has come under increased scrutiny by
    government agencies and state attorneys general and resulting
    investigations and prosecutions carry the risk of significant
    civil and criminal penalties, including debarment from
    government business;

Product efficacy or safety concerns, whether or not based on
    scientific evidence, resulting in product withdrawals, recalls,
    regulatory action on the part of the FDA (or foreign
    counterparts) or declining sales;

The impact of business combinations, including acquisitions and
    divestitures, both internally for the Company and externally in
    the pharmaceutical, medical device and health care industries;
    and

Issuance of new or revised accounting standards by the American
    Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Financial
    Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange
    Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.

The foregoing list sets forth many, but not all, of the factors
    that could impact upon the Company s ability to achieve
    results described in any forward-looking statements. Investors
    should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify
    all such factors and should not consider this list to be a
    complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. The
    Company has identified the factors on this list as permitted by
    the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

</EX-99>

