<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090220_10-K_edgar_data_200406_0000950123-09-003187_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1831075</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>305497</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>137938</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>972005</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>98</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>16</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-09-003187.hdr.sgml : 20090220
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090220161845
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-09-003187
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		27
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081228
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090220
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090220

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			JOHNSON & JOHNSON
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000200406
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				221024240
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NJ
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0209

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-03215
		FILM NUMBER:		09625345

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE JOHNSON & JOHNSON PLZ
		CITY:			NEW BRUNSWICK
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			08933
		BUSINESS PHONE:		732-524-2455

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE JOHNSON & JOHNSON PLZ
		CITY:			NEW BRUNSWICK
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			08933

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 CksKIrapzlkM2W6StKzZyHxJxA5RGprfKCSw+iplWc15GfXUqfAFC7xag/zYEQg0
 SL6VLIuWkzFp3YyRdnvqaw==

 0000950123-09-003187.txt : 20090220

10-K
 1
 y74152e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

10-K 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
    COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C.
    20549  

FORM
     10-K   

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO
    SECTION 13 OF  

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
    1934  

JOHNSON  
    JOHNSON  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)

New Jersey 

22-1024240 

(State of incorporation)

(I.R.S. Employer Identification
    No.) 

One Johnson   Johnson Plaza 
    New Brunswick, New Jersey 

08933 

(Address of principal executive
    offices)

(Zip Code) 

Registrant s telephone number, including area code:
     (732)
     524-0400  

SECURITIES
    REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT  

Title of each class 

Name of each exchange on which registered 

Common Stock, Par Value $1.00

New York Stock Exchange 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes      No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange
    Act.  Yes      No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Exchange Act during the preceding 12 months (or for such
    shorter period that the registrant was required to file such
    reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
    requirements for the past 90
    days.  Yes      No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained
    herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
    registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
    statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
    Form 10-K or any amendment to this
    Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company (as defined in
    Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).

Large
    accelerated
    filer          Accelerated
    filer          Non-accelerated
    filer          Smaller
    reporting
    company     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
    Act).  Yes      No   

The aggregate market value of the Common Stock held by
    non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the
    Common Stock was last sold as of the last business day of the
    registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter
    was approximately $178 billion.

On February 9, 2009 there were 2,765,804,457 shares of
    Common Stock outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Parts I, II and III:

Portions of registrant s annual report to shareholders for
    fiscal year 2008 (the  Annual Report ).

Parts I and III:

Portions of registrant s proxy statement for its 2009
    annual meeting of shareholders filed within 120 days after the
    close of the registrant s fiscal year (the  Proxy
    Statement ).

Item 

Page 

PART I  

1. 

Business 

1

General 

1

Segments of Business 

1

Geographic Areas 

2

Raw Materials 

2

Patents and Trademarks 

2

Seasonality 

3

Competition 

3

Research and Development 

3

Environment 

3

Regulation 

3

Available Information 

4

1A. 

Risk Factors 

4

1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

4

2. 

Properties 

4

3. 

Legal Proceedings 

5

4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders 

5

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

5

PART II  

5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities 

7

6. 

Selected Financial Data 

8

7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operation 

8

7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk 

8

8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

8

9. 

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

9

9A. 

Controls and Procedures 

9

9B. 

Other Information 

9

PART III  

10. 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance 

10

11. 

Executive Compensation 

10

12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

10

13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
    and Director Independence 

11

14. 

Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

11

PART IV  

15. 

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

12

Schedule II   Valuation and
    Qualifying Accounts 

13

Signatures 

14

Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm on Financial Statement Schedule 

16

Exhibit Index 

17

EX-10.J: AMENDMENTS TO CERTIFICATE OF EXTRA COMPENSATION PLAN    
     EX-10.L: AMENDMENTS TO THE DEFERRED FEE PLAN FOR DIRECTORS    
     EX-10.N: AMENDMENTS TO THE EXECUTIVE INCOME DEFERRAL PLAN    
     EX-10.P: AMENDMENTS TO THE JOHNSON & JOHNSON EXCESS SAVINGS PLAN    
     EX-10.R: AMENDMENTS TO THE EXCESS BENEFIT PLAN    
     EX-10.V: SUMMARY OF COMPENSATION ARRANGEMENTS    
     EX-10.W: SEVERANCE ARRANGEMENT FOR ALEX GORSKY    
     EX-12: STATEMENT OF COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES    
     EX-13: PAGES OF COMPANY'S ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS    
     EX-21: SUBSIDIARIES    
     EX-23: CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
     EX-31.A: CERTIFICATION    
     EX-31.B: CERTIFICATION    
     EX-32.A: CERTIFICATION    
     EX-32.B: CERTIFICATION    
     EX-99: CAUTIONARY STATEMENT    

Table of Contents   

PART
    I  

Item
    1.  BUSINESS  

General  

Johnson   Johnson and its subsidiaries have
    approximately 118,700 employees worldwide engaged in the
    research and development, manufacture and sale of a broad range
    of products in the health care field. Johnson  
    Johnson is a holding company, which has more than 250 operating
    companies conducting business in virtually all countries of the
    world. Johnson   Johnson s primary focus has been
    on products related to human health and well-being.
    Johnson   Johnson was incorporated in the State of New
    Jersey in 1887.

The Company s structure is based on the principle of
    decentralized management. The Executive Committee of
    Johnson   Johnson is the principal management group
    responsible for the operations and allocation of the resources
    of the Company. This Committee oversees and coordinates the
    activities of the Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices
    and Diagnostics business segments. Each subsidiary within the
    business segments is, with some exceptions, managed by citizens
    of the country where it is located.

Segments
    of Business  

Johnson   Johnson s operating companies are
    organized into three business segments: Consumer, Pharmaceutical
    and Medical Devices and Diagnostics. Additional information
    required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the
    narrative and tabular (but not the graphic) descriptions of
    segments and operating results under the captions
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Results of
    Operations and Financial Condition  on pages 34
    through 43 and Note 11  Segments of Business and
    Geographic Areas  under  Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements  on page 55 of the Annual Report,
    filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on Form 10-K.

Consumer   

The Consumer segment includes a broad range of products used in
    the baby care, skin care, oral care, wound care and women s
    health care fields, as well as nutritional and over-the-counter
    pharmaceutical products. The Baby Care franchise includes the
    JOHNSON S   

    Baby line of products. Major brands in the Skin Care franchise
    include the
    AVEENO   ;

    CLEAN  
    CLEAR   ;

    JOHNSON S   

    Adult;
    NEUTROGENA   ;

    RoC   ;

    LUBRIDERM   ;

    Beijing Dabao Cosmetics Co., Ltd.; and Vend me product
    lines. The Oral Care franchise includes the
    LISTERINE   

    and
    REACH   

    oral care lines of products. Major brands in the Women s
    Health franchise are the
    CAREFREE   

    Pantiliners and
    STAYFREE   

    sanitary protection products. The nutritional and
    over-the-counter lines include
    SPLENDA   ,

    No Calorie Sweetener;  the broad family of
    TYLENOL   

    acetaminophen products;
    SUDAFED   

    cold, flu and allergy products;
    ZYRTEC   

    allergy products;
    MOTRIN   

    IB ibuprofen products; and
    PEPCID   

    AC Acid Controller from Johnson   Johnson   Merck
    Consumer Pharmaceuticals Co. These products are marketed
    principally to the general public and sold both to wholesalers
    and directly to independent and chain retail outlets throughout
    the world.

Pharmaceutical   

The Pharmaceutical segment includes products in the following
    therapeutic areas: anti-infective, antipsychotic,
    cardiovascular, contraceptive, dermatology, gastrointestinal,
    hematology, immunology, neurology, oncology, pain management,
    urology and virology. These products are distributed directly to
    retailers, wholesalers and health care professionals for
    prescription use by the general public. Key products in the
    Pharmaceutical segment include:
    REMICADE   

    (infliximab), a biologic approved for the treatment of
    Crohn s disease, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriasis,
    psoriatic arthritis, ulcerative colitis, and use in the
    treatment of rheumatoid arthritis;
    TOPAMAX   

    (topiramate), approved for adjunctive and monotherapy use in
    epilepsy, as well as for the prophylactic treatment of
    migraines;
    PROCRIT   

    (Epoetin alfa, sold outside the U.S. as
    EPREX   ),

    a
     biotechnology-derived 
    product that stimulates red blood cell production;
    RISPERDAL   

    oral (risperidone),  a medication that treats the symptoms of
    schizophrenia, bipolar mania and irritability associated with
    autistic behavior in indicated patients,
    RISPERDAL   

    CONSTA   

    (risperidone), a long-acting injectable, and
    INVEGA TM 

    (paliperdone) Extended-Release tablets, for the treatment of
    schizophrenia;
    LEVAQUIN   

    (levofloxacin) and
    FLOXIN   

    (ofloxacin), both in the anti-infective field;
    CONCERTA   

    (methylphenidate HCl), a product for the treatment of attention
    deficit hyperactivity disorder;
    ACIPHEX   /PARIET   ,

    a proton pump inhibitor co-marketed with Eisai Inc.; and
    DURAGESIC   /Fentanyl

    Transdermal (fentanyl transdermal system, sold outside the U.S.
    as
    DUROGESIC   ),

    a treatment for chronic pain that offers a novel delivery system.

Table of Contents   

Medical
    Devices and Diagnostics   

The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment includes a broad
    range of products distributed to wholesalers, hospitals and
    retailers, used principally in the professional fields by
    physicians, nurses, therapists, hospitals, diagnostic
    laboratories and clinics. These products include Cordis 
    circulatory disease management products; DePuy s
    orthopaedic joint reconstruction, spinal care and sports
    medicine products; Ethicon s surgical care and women s
    health products; Ethicon Endo-Surgery s minimally invasive
    surgical products; LifeScan s blood glucose monitoring and
    insulin delivery products; Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics 
    professional diagnostic products and Vistakon s disposable
    contact lenses. Distribution to these health care professional
    markets is done both directly and through surgical supply and
    other dealers.

Geographic
    Areas  

The international business of Johnson   Johnson is
    conducted by subsidiaries located in 56 countries outside the
    United States, which are selling products in virtually all
    countries throughout the world. The products made and sold in
    the international business include many of those described above
    under    Segments of Business  
    Consumer,     Pharmaceutical  and
       Medical Devices and Diagnostics. 
    However, the principal markets, products and methods of
    distribution in the international business vary with the country
    and the culture. The products sold in international business
    include not only those developed in the United States, but also
    those developed by subsidiaries abroad.

Investments and activities in some countries outside the United
    States are subject to higher risks than comparable U.S.
    activities because the investment and commercial climate is
    influenced by restrictive economic policies and political
    uncertainties.

Raw
    Materials  

Raw materials essential to Johnson   Johnson s
    operating companies  businesses are generally readily
    available from multiple sources.

Patents
    and Trademarks  

Johnson   Johnson and its operating companies have made a
    practice of obtaining patent protection on their products and
    processes where possible. They own or are licensed under a
    number of patents relating to their products and manufacturing
    processes, which in the aggregate are believed to be of material
    importance to Johnson   Johnson in the operation of its
    businesses. Sales of the Company s two largest products,
    REMICADE   

    (infliximab) and
    TOPAMAX   

    (topiramate), accounted for approximately 6% and 4% of Johnson
      Johnson s total revenues, respectively, for fiscal
    2008. Accordingly, the patents related to these products are
    believed to be material to Johnson   Johnson as a
    whole.

The material patents that expired in 2007 and 2008 are related
    to
    RISPERDAL   

    (risperidone), which expired in the United States in December
    2007, and
    TOPAMAX   ,

    which expired in the United States in September 2008. The
    Company has received pediatric extensions for
    RISPERDAL   

    oral and
    TOPAMAX   

    from the FDA, which granted market exclusivity in the United
    States through June 2008 and March 2009, respectively. The next
    significant patent scheduled to expire on December 20, 2010
    is for
    LEVAQUIN   

    (levofloxacin), which accounted for 2.5% of the Company s
    2008 sales. A pediatric extension for
    LEVAQUIN   

    was granted by the FDA, which extends market exclusivity in the
    United States through June 20, 2011.

Johnson   Johnson s operating companies have made a
    practice of selling their products under trademarks and of
    obtaining protection for these trademarks by all available
    means. These trademarks are protected by registration in the
    United States and other countries where such products are
    marketed. Johnson   Johnson considers these trademarks in
    the aggregate to be of material importance in the operation of
    its businesses.

2

Table of Contents   

Seasonality  

Worldwide sales do not reflect any significant degree of
    seasonality; however, spending has been heavier in the fourth
    quarter of each year than in other quarters. This reflects
    increased spending decisions, principally for advertising and
    research and development activity.

Competition  

In all of their product lines, Johnson   Johnson s
    operating companies compete with companies both large and small,
    located throughout the world. Competition is strong in all
    product lines without regard to the number and size of the
    competing companies involved. Competition in research, involving
    the development and the improvement of new and existing products
    and processes, is particularly significant. The development of
    new and improved products is important to Johnson  
    Johnson s success in all areas of its businesses. This also
    includes protecting the Company s portfolio of intellectual
    property. The competitive environment requires substantial
    investments in continuing research and multiple sales forces. In
    addition, the development and maintenance of customer acceptance
    of the products of Johnson   Johnson s consumer
    businesses involves significant expenditures for advertising and
    promotion.

Research
    and Development  

Research activities represent a significant part of Johnson
      Johnson s subsidiaries  businesses. Major
    research facilities are located not only in the United States
    but also in Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany,
    India, Japan, the Netherlands, Singapore and the United Kingdom.
    The costs of worldwide Company-sponsored research activities
    relating to the development of new products, improvement of
    existing products, technical support of products and compliance
    with governmental regulations for the protection of consumers
    and patients, excluding in-process research and development
    charges, amounted to $7.6 billion, $7.7 billion and
    $7.1 billion for fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. These costs are charged directly to expense, or
    directly against income, in the year in which incurred.

Environment  

Johnson   Johnson s operating companies are subject to
    a variety of federal, state and local environmental protection
    measures. Johnson   Johnson believes that its operations
    comply in all material respects with applicable environmental
    laws and regulations. Johnson   Johnson s compliance
    with these requirements did not during the past year, and is not
    expected to, have a material effect upon its capital
    expenditures, cash flows, earnings or competitive position.

Regulation  

Most of Johnson   Johnson s businesses are subject to
    varying degrees of governmental regulation in the countries in
    which operations are conducted, and the general trend is toward
    increasingly stringent regulation. In the United States, the
    drug, device, diagnostics and cosmetic industries have long been
    subject to regulation by various federal and state agencies,
    primarily as to product safety, efficacy, manufacturing,
    advertising, labeling and safety reporting. The exercise of
    broad regulatory powers by the FDA continues to result in
    increases in the amounts of testing and documentation required
    for FDA clearance of new drugs and devices and a corresponding
    increase in the expense of product introduction. Similar trends
    are also evident in major markets outside of the United States.

The costs of human health care have been and continue to be a
    subject of study, investigation and regulation by governmental
    agencies and legislative bodies around the world. In the United
    States, attention has been focused on drug prices and profits
    and programs that encourage doctors to write prescriptions for
    particular drugs or recommend, use or purchase particular
    medical devices. Payers have become a more potent force in the
    market place and increased attention is being paid to drug and
    medical device pricing, appropriate drug and medical device
    utilization and the quality and costs of health care. In the
    United States, implementation of the Medicare Prescription Drug,
    Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and the Deficit
    Reduction Act of 2005 may cause uncertainty in reimbursement
    levels in certain product segments.

3

Table of Contents   

The regulatory agencies under whose purview Johnson  
    Johnson s operating companies operate have administrative
    powers that may subject those companies to such actions as
    product withdrawals, recalls, seizure of products and other
    civil and criminal sanctions. In some cases, Johnson  
    Johnson s operating companies may deem it advisable to
    initiate product recalls.

In addition, business practices in the health care industry have
    come under increased scrutiny, particularly in the United
    States, by government agencies and state attorneys general, and
    resulting investigations and prosecutions carry the risk of
    significant civil and criminal penalties.

Available
    Information  

The Company s main corporate Web site address is
     www.jnj.com.  Copies of Johnson   Johnson s
    Quarterly Reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    and Current Reports on
     Form 8-K 
    filed or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
    Commission (the  SEC ), and any amendments to the
    foregoing, will be provided without charge to any shareholder
    submitting a written request to the Secretary at the principal
    executive offices of the Company or by calling
     1-800-950-5089. 
    All of the Company s SEC filings are also available on the
    Company s Web site at
     www.investor.jnj.com/governance.cfm , as soon as
    reasonably practicable after having been electronically filed or
    furnished to the SEC. All SEC filings are also available at the
    SEC s Web site at  www.sec.gov . In addition, the
    written charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation  
    Benefits Committee and the Nominating   Corporate
    Governance Committee of the Board of Directors and the
    Company s Principles of Corporate Governance, Policy on
    Business Conduct for employees and Code of Business Conduct
      Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors and
    Executive Officers are available at the
     www.investor.jnj.com/governance.cfm  Web site address and
    will be provided without charge to any shareholder submitting a
    written request, as provided above.

Item
    1A.  RISK FACTORS  

Not applicable.

Item
    1B.  UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

Not applicable.

Item
    2.  PROPERTIES  

Johnson   Johnson and its subsidiaries operate 147
    manufacturing facilities occupying approximately
    21.6 million square feet of floor space.

The manufacturing facilities are used by the industry segments
    of Johnson   Johnson s business approximately as
    follows:

Within the United States, eight facilities are used by the
    Consumer segment, 12 by the Pharmaceutical segment and 41 by the
    Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment. Johnson  
    Johnson s manufacturing operations outside the United
    States are often conducted in facilities that serve more than
    one business segment.

4

Table of Contents   

The locations of the manufacturing facilities by major
    geographic areas of the world are as follows:

In addition to the manufacturing facilities discussed above,
    Johnson   Johnson and its subsidiaries maintain numerous
    office and warehouse facilities throughout the world. Research
    facilities are also discussed in Item 1 under  Business
      Research and Development. 

Johnson   Johnson and its subsidiaries generally seek to
    own their manufacturing facilities, although some, principally
    in locations abroad, are leased. Office and warehouse facilities
    are often leased.

Johnson   Johnson s properties are maintained in good
    operating condition and repair and are well utilized.

For information regarding lease obligations, see Note 4
     Rental Expense and Lease Commitments  under
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  on
    page 51 of the Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to
    this Report on Form 10-K. Segment information on additions
    to property, plant and equipment is contained in Note 11
     Segments of Business and Geographic Areas  under
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  on
    page 55 of the Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to
    this Report on Form 10-K.

Item
    3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  

The information set forth in Note 18  Legal
    Proceedings  under  Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements  on pages 62 through 66 of the Annual
    Report is incorporated herein by reference and filed as
    Exhibit 13 to this Report on
     Form 10-K. 

The Company or its subsidiaries are parties to a number of
    proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental
    Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as
    Superfund, and comparable state laws, in which the primary
    relief sought is the cost of past and future remediation. While
    it is not feasible to predict or determine the outcome of these
    proceedings, in the opinion of the Company, such proceedings
    would not have a material adverse effect on the results of
    operations, cash flows or financial position of the Company.

Item
    4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY
    HOLDERS  

Not applicable.

EXECUTIVE
    OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  

Listed below are the executive officers of Johnson  
    Johnson as of February 9, 2009, each of whom, unless
    otherwise indicated below, has been an employee of the Company
    or its affiliates and held the position indicated during the
    past five years. There are no family relationships between any
    of the executive officers, and there is no arrangement or
    understanding between any executive officer and any other person
    pursuant to which the executive officer was selected. At the
    annual meeting of the Board of Directors, the executive officers
    are elected by the Board to hold office for one year and until
    their respective successors are elected and qualified, or until
    earlier resignation or removal.

5

Table of Contents   

Information with regard to the directors of the Company,
    including those of the following executive officers who are
    directors, is incorporated herein by reference to the material
    captioned  Election of Directors  in the Proxy
    Statement.

Name 

Age 

Position 

Dominic J. Caruso

51

Member, Executive Committee; Vice President, Finance; Chief
    Financial Officer(a)

Donald M. Casey, Jr.

49

Member, Executive Committee; Worldwide Chairman, Comprehensive
    Care Group(b)

Russell C. Deyo

59

Member, Executive Committee; Vice President, General Counsel(c)

Kaye I. Foster-Cheek

49

Member, Executive Committee; Vice President, Human Resources(d)

Colleen A. Goggins

54

Member, Executive Committee; Worldwide Chairman, Consumer
    Group(e)

Alex Gorsky

48

Member, Executive Committee; Worldwide Chairman, Surgical Care
    Group(f)

Sherilyn S. McCoy

50

Member, Executive Committee; Worldwide Chairman, Pharmaceuticals
    Group(g)

Christine A. Poon

56

Vice Chairman, Board of Directors; Member, Executive Committee(h)

Nicholas J. Valeriani

52

Member, Executive Committee; Vice President, Office of Strategy
      Growth(i)

William C. Weldon

60

Chairman, Board of Directors; Chairman, Executive Committee;
    Chief Executive Officer

(a)  

Mr. D. J. Caruso joined the Company in 1999 when the
    Company acquired Centocor, Inc. At the time of that acquisition,
    he had been Senior Vice President, Finance of Centocor.
    Mr. Caruso was named Vice President, Finance of
    Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical, Inc. in 2001 and Vice President,
    Group Finance of the Company s Medical Devices and
    Diagnostics Group in 2003. In 2005, Mr. Caruso was named
    Vice President of the Company s Group Finance organization.
    Mr. Caruso became a Member of the Executive Committee and
    Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer in 2007. 

(b)  

Mr. D. M. Casey, Jr., joined the Company in 1985 and
    held various positions before becoming President of
    Johnson   Johnson   Merck Consumer
    Pharmaceuticals Co. in 1997. In 2001, he was named President of
    Personal Products Company Division of Johnson  
    Johnson Consumer Companies, Inc. In 2002, Mr. Casey became
    the Group President of Johnson   Johnson Vision Care,
    Inc., and in 2004 was named Company Group Chairman, Vision Care.
    In 2006, he was named Company Group Chairman of the LifeScan
    franchise. In 2008, he became a Member of the Executive
    Committee and Worldwide Chairman, Comprehensive Care Group. 

(c)  

Mr. R. C. Deyo joined the Company in 1985 and became Associate
    General Counsel in 1991. He became a Member of the Executive
    Committee and Vice President, Administration in 1996 and Vice
    President, General Counsel in 2004. 

(d)  

Ms. K. I. Foster-Cheek joined the Company in 2003 as
    Vice President, Human Resources for the Johnson   Johnson
    consumer products companies. In 2004, she was named Vice
    President, Human Resources for the Consumer   Personal Care
    Group and was named a member of the Human Resources Leadership
    Team and the Consumer   Personal Care Group Operating
    Committee. Ms. Foster-Cheek became a Member of the Executive
    Committee and Vice President, Human Resources for the Company in
    2005. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Foster-Cheek served
    in various human resources management positions with Pfizer Inc.
    for 13 years, most recently supporting its pharmaceutical
    businesses in Japan, Asia, Africa, Middle East and Latin America. 

(e)  

Ms. C. A. Goggins joined the Company in 1981 and held
    various positions before becoming President of Personal Products
    Company in 1994. She was named President of Johnson  
    Johnson Consumer Companies, Inc. in 1995 and Company Group
    Chairman, North America, Johnson   Johnson Consumer
    Products in 1998. Ms. Goggins became a Member of the
    Executive Committee and Worldwide Chairman, Consumer  
    Personal Care Group in 2001, now known as the Consumer Group. 

6

Table of Contents   

(f)  

Mr. A. Gorsky joined the Company in 2008 as Company Group
    Chairman and Worldwide Franchise Chairman for Ethicon, Inc.
    Previously, he was head of the North American pharmaceuticals
    business at Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation from 2004 to
    2008. Prior to Novartis, Mr. Gorsky served in various
    management positions at Johnson   Johnson, including
    Company Group Chairman for the Company s pharmaceutical
    business in Europe, Middle East and Africa and President of
    Janssen Pharmaceutica Inc. (U.S.). In January 2009, he became a
    Member of the Executive Committee and Worldwide Chairman,
    Surgical Care Group. 

(g)  

Ms. S. S. McCoy joined the Company in 1982 as an Associate
    Scientist in Research   Development for Personal
    Products Company. She was named Vice President,
    Research   Development for the Personal Products
    Worldwide Division of McNEIL-PPC, Inc. in 1995, and Vice
    President, Marketing for its Skin Care franchise in 2000. In
    2002, Ms. McCoy became Global President for its Baby and
    Wound Care franchise. She was named Company Group Chairman and
    Worldwide Franchise Chairman of Ethicon, Inc. in 2005. In 2008
    she became a Member of the Executive Committee and Worldwide
    Chairman, Surgical Care Group. In January 2009, she became
    Worldwide Chairman, Pharmaceuticals Group. 

(h)  

Ms. C. A. Poon joined the Company in 2000 as a Company
    Group Chairman in the Pharmaceuticals Group. She became a Member
    of the Executive Committee and Worldwide Chairman,
    Pharmaceuticals Group in 2001, was named Worldwide Chairman,
    Medicines   Nutritionals in 2003 and was appointed
    Vice Chairman of the Company s Board of Directors in 2005.
    She was again named Worldwide Chairman, Pharmaceuticals Group in
    2008. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Poon served in
    various management positions at Bristol-Myers Squibb Company for
    15 years, most recently as President of International
    Medicines
     (1998-2000) 
    and President of Medical Devices
     (1997-1998). 
    Ms. Poon plans to retire from the Company in March 2009. 

(i)  

Mr. N. J. Valeriani joined the Company in 1978 and held
    various positions before becoming President of Ethicon
    Endo-Surgery, Inc. in 1997. In 2001 he was named Company Group
    Chairman for Ethicon Endo-Surgery with additional responsibility
    for the Johnson   Johnson Medical Products Medical
    Devices and Diagnostics business in Canada. He became Worldwide
    Franchise Chairman for the DePuy Franchise in 2002.
    Mr. Valeriani became a Member of the Executive Committee
    and Vice President, Human Resources in 2003. In 2004 he assumed
    additional responsibilities as Worldwide Chairman, Diagnostics.
    In 2005, Mr. Valeriani was appointed Worldwide Chairman,
    Cardiovascular Devices and Diagnostics and relinquished his
    Human Resources responsibilities. He became Worldwide Chairman,
    Medical Devices and Diagnostics Group in 2006. In 2008
    Mr. Valeriani became Vice President, Office of Strategy
      Growth. 

PART
    II  

Item
    5.    

MARKET
    FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
    AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  

As of February 9, 2009, there were 168,784 record holders
    of Common Stock of the Company. Additional information called
    for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to: the
    material under the captions  Management s Discussion
    and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition   Liquidity and Capital
    Resources   Share Repurchase and Dividends  on
    page 41;     Other
    Information   Common Stock Market Prices  on
    page 43; Note 10  Common Stock, Stock Option
    Plans and Stock Compensation Agreements  under  Notes
    to Consolidated Financial Statements  on pages 53 and
    54; and  Shareholder Return Performance Graphs  on
    page 71 of the Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to
    this Report on
     Form 10-K; 
    and Item 12  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
    Matters   Equity Compensation Plan Information 
    of this Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Issuer
    Purchases of Equity Securities  

On July 9, 2007, the Company announced that its Board of
    Directors approved a stock repurchase program, authorizing the
    Company to buy back up to $10 billion of the Company s
    Common Stock. Share repurchases take place on the open market
    from time to time based on market conditions.  The repurchase
    program has no time limit and may be suspended for periods or
    discontinued at any time.  Any shares acquired will be available
    for general corporate purposes.  The Company funds the share
    repurchase program through a combination of available cash and
    debt. The Company does not expect its triple-A credit rating to
    be affected by the share repurchase program.

7

Table of Contents   

In addition, Common Stock purchases on the open market are made
    as part of a systematic plan related to the Company s
    compensation programs.

The following table provides information with respect to Common
    Stock purchases by the Company during the fiscal fourth quarter
    of 2008.

Item
    6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the material under the caption  Summary of
    Operations and Statistical Data 1998-2008  on page 70
    of the Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Item
    7.    

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATION  

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the narrative and tabular (but not the graphic)
    material under the caption  Management s Discussion
    and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition  on pages 34 through 43 of the Annual
    Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Item 7A.  QUANTITATIVE
    AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the material under the caption
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Results of
    Operations and Financial Condition   Liquidity and
    Capital Resources   Financing and Market Risk  on
    page 40 and Note 1  Summary of Significant
    Accounting Policies   Financial Instruments 
    under  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  on
    pages 49 and 50 of the Annual Report, filed as
    Exhibit 13 to this Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Item
    8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY
    DATA  

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements
    and Notes thereto and the material under the caption
     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm  on pages 44 through 69 of the Annual Report,
    filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on
     Form 10-K. 

8

Table of Contents   

Item
    9.    

CHANGES
    IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
    FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  

Not applicable.

Item 9A.    

CONTROLS
    AND PROCEDURES  

Disclosure Controls and Procedures.   At the end
    of the period covered by this report, the Company evaluated the
    effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure
    controls and procedures. The Company s disclosure controls
    and procedures are designed to ensure that information required
    to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or
    submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
    summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in
    the SEC s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and
    procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures
    designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by
    the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the
    Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the
    Company s management, including its principal executive and
    principal financial officers, or persons performing similar
    functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding
    required disclosure. William C. Weldon, Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer, and Dominic J. Caruso, Chief Financial
    Officer, reviewed and participated in this evaluation. Based on
    this evaluation, Messrs. Weldon and Caruso concluded that,
    as of the end of the period covered by this report, the
    Company s disclosure controls and procedures were effective.

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting.   Under Section 404 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, management is required to assess the
    effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year and
    report, based on that assessment, whether the Company s
    internal control over financial reporting is effective.

Management of the Company is responsible for establishing and
    maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.
    The Company s internal control over financial reporting is
    designed to provide reasonable assurance as to the reliability
    of the Company s financial reporting and the preparation of
    external financial statements in accordance with generally
    accepted accounting principles.

Internal control over financial reporting, no matter how well
    designed, has inherent limitations. Therefore, internal control
    over financial reporting determined to be effective can provide
    only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement
    preparation and may not prevent or detect all misstatements.
    Moreover, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
    future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The Company s management has assessed the effectiveness of
    the Company s internal control over financial reporting as
    of December 28, 2008. In making this assessment, the
    Company used the criteria established by the Committee of
    Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in
     Internal Control-Integrated Framework.  These
    criteria are in the areas of control environment, risk
    assessment, control activities, information and communication,
    and monitoring. The Company s assessment included extensive
    documenting, evaluating and testing the design and operating
    effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting.

Based on the Company s processes and assessment, as
    described above, management has concluded that, as of
    December 28, 2008, the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting was effective.

The effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 28, 2008 has been
    audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
    public accounting firm, as stated in their report, which appears
    in the  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm  on page 69 of the Annual Report, which is
    incorporated herein by reference and filed as Exhibit 13 to
    this Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting.   During the fiscal quarter ended
    December 28, 2008, there were no changes in the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting
    identified in connection with the evaluation of such referred to
    above in this Item 9A that have materially affected, or are
    reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s
    internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B.    

OTHER
    INFORMATION  

Not applicable.

9

Table of Contents   

PART
    III  

Item
    10.  DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE
    GOVERNANCE  

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the material under the captions  Election
    of Directors  and  Stock Ownership and Section 16
    Compliance   Section 16(b) Beneficial Ownership
    Reporting Compliance  and the discussion of the Audit
    Committee under the caption  Corporate
    Governance   Board Committees  in the Proxy
    Statement; and the material under the caption  Executive
    Officers of the Registrant  in Part I of this Report
    on
     Form 10-K. 

The Company s Policy on Business Conduct, which covers all
    employees (including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief
    Financial Officer and Controller), meets the requirements of the
    SEC rules promulgated under Section 406 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Policy on Business Conduct is
    available on the Company s Web site at
     www.investor.jnj.com/governance/policies.cfm , and copies
    are available to shareholders without charge upon written
    request to the Secretary at the Company s principal
    executive offices. Any substantive amendment to the Policy on
    Business Conduct or any waiver of the Policy granted to the
    Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer or the
    Controller will be posted on the Company s Web site at
      www.investor.jnj.com/governance.cfm  
    within five business days (and retained on the Web site for at
    least one year).

In addition, the Company has adopted a Code of Business Conduct
      Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors and
    Executive Officers. The Code of Business Conduct   Ethics
    for Members of the Board of Directors and Executive Officers is
    available on the Company s Web site at
     www.investor.jnj.com/governance/policies.cfm , and copies
    are available to shareholders without charge upon written
    request to the Secretary at the Company s principal
    executive offices. Any substantive amendment to the Code or any
    waiver of the Code granted to any member of the Board of
    Directors or any executive officer will be posted on the
    Company s Web site at
     www.investor.jnj.com/governance.cfm  within five business
    days (and retained on the Web site for at least one year).

Item
    11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the material under the captions
     Compensation Discussion and Analysis, 
     Executive and Director Compensation  and
     Compensation Committee Report  in the Proxy Statement.

The material incorporated herein by reference to the material
    under the caption  Compensation Committee Report  in
    the Proxy Statement shall be deemed furnished, and not filed, in
    this Report on
     Form 10-K 
    and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any
    filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as a result of this
    furnishing, except to the extent that the Registrant
    specifically incorporates it by reference.

Item
    12.    

SECURITY
    OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
    RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  

Additional information called for by this item is incorporated
    herein by reference to the material under the captions
     Stock Ownership and Section 16 Compliance  in
    the Proxy Statement and Note 10  Common Stock, Stock
    Option Plans and Stock Compensation Agreements  under
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  on
    pages 53 and 54 of the Annual Report, filed as
    Exhibit 13 to this Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Equity
    Compensation Plan Information  

The following table provides certain information as of
    December 28, 2008 concerning the shares of the
    Company s Common Stock that may be issued under existing
    equity compensation plans.

10

Table of Contents   

(1)  

Included in this category are the following equity compensation
    plans, which have been approved by the Company s
    shareholders: 1995 Stock Option Plan, 2000 Stock Compensation
    Plan and 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan.

(2)  

Included in this category are 835,744 shares of Common
    Stock of the Company issuable under various equity compensation
    plans which were assumed by the Company upon acquisition of the
    following companies: ALZA Corporation, Scios Inc.,
    Innovasive Devices, Inc., Inverness Medical
    Technology, Inc. and Centocor, Inc. 596,296 of the
    shares listed as issuable in this category were issued under
    plans that were approved by the shareholders of these companies
    prior to the acquisition and the assumption of these plans by
    the Company. At the time of each of these acquisitions, options
    to acquire equity of the acquired company were replaced by
    options to acquire the Common Stock of the Company. No stock
    options or equity awards of any type have been made under any of
    these plans since the assumption of these plans by the Company,
    and no further stock options or other equity awards of any type
    will be made under any of these plans in the future.

The shares that are included in this column that were issued
    under plans not approved by shareholders of the applicable
    acquired company are: 204,277 shares issuable under the
    1996 Scios Non-Officer Stock Option Plan; and 35,171 shares
    issuable under warrants under an Inverness Medical plan.

(3)  

Also included in this category are 121,100 shares of Common
    Stock of the Company issuable upon the exercise of outstanding
    stock options under the Company s 1997 Stock Option
    Plan for Non-Employee Directors.

(4)  

This column excludes shares reflected under the column
     Number of Securities to be Issued Upon Exercise of
    Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights. 

Item
    13.    

CERTAIN
    RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
    INDEPENDENCE  

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the material under the captions
     Transactions with Related Persons  and
     Corporate Governance   Director
    Independence  in the Proxy Statement.

Item
    14.    

PRINCIPAL
    ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES  

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the material under the caption
     Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered
    Public Accounting Firm  in the Proxy Statement.

11

Table of Contents   

PART
    IV  

Item
    15.  EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT
    SCHEDULES  

(a) The following documents are filed as part of this
    report:

1.  Financial Statements 

The following Audited Consolidated Financial Statements and
    Notes thereto and the material under the caption  Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  on
    pages 44 through 69 of the Annual Report are incorporated
    herein by reference and filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report
    on
     Form 10-K: 

Consolidated Balance Sheets at end of Fiscal Years 2008 and 2007

Consolidated Statements of Earnings for Fiscal Years 2008, 2007
    and 2006

Consolidated Statements of Equity for Fiscal Years 2008, 2007
    and 2006

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for Fiscal Years 2008,
    2007 and 2006

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

2.  Financial Statement Schedules 

Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

Schedules other than those listed above are omitted because they
    are not required or are not applicable.

3.  Exhibits Required to be Filed by Item 60l of
    Regulation
     S-K  

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the Exhibit Index in this report.

12

Table of Contents   

JOHNSON  
    JOHNSON AND SUBSIDIARIES  

SCHEDULE II   VALUATION AND
    QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 

Fiscal Years Ended December 28, 2008, December 30,
    2007 and December 31, 2006 

(Dollars in Millions) 

13

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report
    to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
    authorized.

Date: February 9, 2009

JOHNSON   JOHNSON

(Registrant)

By 

/s/   W.
    C. Weldon 

W. C. Weldon, Chairman, Board of Directors,

and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

Signature 

Title 

Date 

/s/   W.
    C. Weldon 

W.
    C. Weldon

Chairman, Board of Directors, 
    Chief Executive Officer, and Director (Principal Executive
    Officer)

February 9, 2009

/s/   C. A.
    Poon 

C. A.
    Poon

Vice Chairman, Board of Directors, and Director

February 9, 2009

/s/   D. J.
    Caruso 

D. J.
    Caruso

Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)

February 9, 2009

/s/   S.
    J. Cosgrove 

S.
    J. Cosgrove

Controller (Principal Accounting Officer)

February 9, 2009

/s/   M.
    S. Coleman 

M.
    S. Coleman

Director

February 9, 2009

/s/   J.
    G. Cullen 

J.
    G. Cullen

Director

February 9, 2009

/s/   M.
    M. E. Johns 

M.
    M. E. Johns

Director

February 9, 2009

14

Table of Contents   

15

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON 
    FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE  

To the Board
    of Directors of

Johnson   Johnson:

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements and of the
    effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
    referred to in our report dated February 17, 2009 appearing
    in the 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders of Johnson  
    Johnson (which report and consolidated financial statements are
    incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K) 
    also included an audit of the financial statement schedule
    listed in Item 15(a) of this
     Form 10-K. 
    In our opinion, this financial statement schedule presents
    fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
    therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated
    financial statements.

/s/   PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP 

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

New York, New York

February 17, 2009

16

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT
    INDEX  

Reg.
     S-K  

Exhibit Table 

Description 

Item No. 

of Exhibit 

3

(a)(i)

Restated Certificate of Incorporation dated April 26,
    1990   Incorporated herein by reference to
    Exhibit 3(a) of the Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended December 30, 1990.

3

(a)(ii)

Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of
    Incorporation of the Company dated May 20, 1992  
    Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(a) of the
    Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended January 3, 1993.

3

(a)(iii)

Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of
    Incorporation of the Company dated May 21, 1996  
    Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(a)(iii) of
    the Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended December 29, 1996.

3

(a)(iv)

Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of
    Incorporation of the Company effective May 22,
    2001   Incorporated herein by reference to
    Exhibit 3 of the Registrant s
     Form 10-Q 
    Quarterly Report for the quarter ended July 1, 2001.

3

(a)(v)

Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of
    Incorporation of the Company effective April 27,
    2006   Incorporated herein by reference to
    Exhibit 3(i) of the Registrant s Form 10-Q Quarterly
    Report for the quarter ended April 2, 2006.

3

(b)

By-Laws of the Company, as amended effective February 9,
    2009   Incorporated herein by reference to
    Exhibit 3.1 the Registrant s
     Form 8-K 
    Current Report filed February 13, 2009.

4

(a)

Upon the request of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
    Registrant will furnish a copy of all instruments defining the
    rights of holders of long term debt of the Registrant.

10

(a)

Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors  
    Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) of the
    Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended December 29, 1996.*

10

(b)

2000 Stock Option Plan (as amended)   Incorporated
    herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b) of the
    Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended December 29, 2002.*

10

(c)

1995 Stock Option Plan (as amended)   Incorporated
    herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b) of the
    Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended January 3, 1999.*

10

(d)

2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan   Incorporated
    herein by reference to Exhibit 4 of the Registrant s
     S-8 
    Registration Statement filed with the Commission on May 10,
    2005 (file
     no. 333-124785).* 

10

(e)

Form of Stock Option Certificate and Restricted Shares to
    Non-Employee Directors Certificate under the 2005 Long-Term
    Incentive Plan   Incorporated herein by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant s
     Form 10-Q 
    Quarterly Report for the quarter ended July 3, 2005.*

10

(f)

Form of Restricted Stock Unit Certificate under the 2005
    Long-Term Incentive Plan   Incorporated herein by
    reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant s
     Form 10-Q 
    Quarterly Report for the quarter ended October 2, 2005.*

10

(g)

Executive Bonus Plan   Incorporated herein by
    reference to Exhibit 4 of the Registrant s
     Form S-8 
    Registration Statement filed with the Commission on
    November 8, 2005 (file
     no. 333-129542).* 

10

(h)

Executive Incentive Plan (as amended)   Incorporated
    herein by reference to Exhibit 10(f) of the
    Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2000.*

10

(i)

Domestic Deferred Compensation (Certificate of Extra
    Compensation) Plan (as amended)   Incorporated herein
    by reference to Exhibit 10(g) of the Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended December 28, 2003.*

10

(j)

Amendments to the Certificate of Extra Compensation Plan
    effective as of January 1, 2009   Filed with this
    document.*

10

(k)

Deferred Fee Plan for Non-Employee Directors (as amended)  
    Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(h) of the
    Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended January 2, 2005.*

17

Table of Contents   

Reg.
     S-K  

Exhibit Table 

Description 

Item No. 

of Exhibit 

10

(l)

Amendments to the Deferred Fee Plan for Directors effective as
    of January 1, 2009   Filed with this document.*

10

(m)

Executive Income Deferral Plan (as amended)  
    Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(i) of the
    Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended December 28, 2003.*

10

(n)

Amendments to the Executive Income Deferral Plan effective as of
    January 1, 2009   Filed with this document.*

10

(o)

Excess Savings Plan   Incorporated herein by reference
    to Exhibit 10(j) of the Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended December 29, 1996.*

10

(p)

Amendments to the Johnson   Johnson Excess Savings Plan
    effective as of January 1, 2009   Filed with this
    document.*

10

(q)

Excess Benefit Plan (Supplemental Retirement Plan)  
    Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(h) of the
    Registrant s Form
     10-K  Annual
    Report for the year ended January 3, 1993.*

10

(r)

Amendments to the Excess Benefit Plan of Johnson   Johnson
    and Affiliated Companies effective as of January 1, 2009
      Filed with this document.*

10

(s)

Executive Life Insurance Plan   Incorporated herein by
    reference to Exhibit 10(i) of the Registrant s Form
     10-K  Annual
    Report for the year ended January 3, 1993.*

10

(t)

Stock Option Gain Deferral Plan   Incorporated herein
    by reference to Exhibit 10(m) of the Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended January 2, 2000.*

10

(u)

Estate Preservation Plan   Incorporated herein by
    reference to Exhibit 10(n) of the Registrant s
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report for the year ended January 2, 2000.*

10

(v)

Summary of compensation arrangements for Named Executive
    Officers and Directors    Filed with this
    document.*

10

(w)

Severance Arrangement for Alex Gorsky   Filed with
    this document.*

12

Statement of Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
      Filed with this document.

13

Pages 34 through 71 of the Company s
    Annual Report to Shareholders for fiscal year 2008 (only those
    portions of the Annual Report incorporated by reference in this
    report are deemed  filed )   Filed with this
    document.

21

Subsidiaries   Filed with this document.

23

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm   Filed with this document.

31

(a)

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act   Filed
    with this document.

31

(b)

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act   Filed
    with this document.

32

(a)

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act   Furnished
    with this document.

32

(b)

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act   Furnished
    with this document.

99

Cautionary Statement Pursuant to Private Securities Litigation
    Reform Act of 1995    Safe Harbor  for
    Forward-Looking Statements   Filed with this document.

*  

Management contract or compensatory plan. 

A copy of any of the Exhibits listed above will be provided
    without charge to any shareholder submitting a written request
    specifying the desired exhibit(s) to the Secretary at the
    principal executive offices of the Company.

18

<EX-10.J>
 2
 y74152exv10wj.htm
 EX-10.J: AMENDMENTS TO CERTIFICATE OF EXTRA COMPENSATION PLAN

EX-10.J 

Exhibit 10(j) 

AMENDMENTS TO THE  
  CERTIFICATE OF EXTRA COMPENSATION PLAN  

Effective as of January 1, 2009, the Certificate of Extra Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) shall be
amended as follows:

1.  Plan Name Change . The Plan shall be renamed the  Certificate of Long-Term Compensation
Plan,  and all references in the Plan to  CEC  shall be changed to  CLC. 

2.  Section 409A Amendments . The following new Article  SEVENTEENTH  shall be inserted at
the end of the Plan:

SEVENTEENTH:  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, the terms of
this Article  SEVENTEENTH  shall apply to the payment of the Formula Value of the Employee s
409A Shares. For purposes of this Plan, the term  409A Shares  shall mean CLC Shares that
are awarded or vested after December 31, 2004 (the  409A Shares ). This Article
 SEVENTEENTH  is intended to ensure that the terms of the Plan comply with Section 409A of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations and other guidance issued
thereunder ( Section 409A ). 

(a) 
       
      Payment of 409A Shares . The Formula Value of an Employee s 409A Shares
shall be payable only upon the occurrence of a 409A Payment Event. Subject to the
limitations applicable to Specified Employees set forth in this Article  SEVENTEENTH, 
the Company shall pay the Formula Value of the Employee s 409A Shares in a single lump
sum within the 90-day period beginning on the date of the 409A Payment Event. The
Employee shall have no influence on any determination as to the tax year in which the
payment is made. 

(b) 
       
      409A Payment Event . For purposes of this Plan, the term  409A Payment
Event  shall mean the date on which one of the following occurs with respect to an
Employee (or a date related to the occurrence of one of the following): 

i) 
       
     Separation from Service (within the meaning of Treasury
Regulations Section 1.409A-1(h) and other applicable rules under Section
409A); 

ii) 
       
     Death; or 

iii) 
       
     Disability (within the meaning of Section 409A(a)(2)(C) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, (the  Code ) and the
regulations thereunder). 

With respect to an Employee who is placed on  long-term disability  as provided in
Article  THIRD,  above, the Company shall determine whether a Separation from Service
has occurred with respect to the Employee based on the facts and circumstances for
purposes of establishing the time of payment for the Employee s 409A Shares. The
Company s determination shall be made initially within 60 days of the date the Employee
is placed on  long-term disability,  and each anniversary of such date thereafter. 

(c) 
       
      No Deferral of Payment . An Employee may not elect to defer receipt of
any portion of the Formula Value of his/her 409A Shares or to receive such amounts in
the form of installment payments. An Employee s election to defer receipt of any
portion of his/her CEC holdings or to be paid in installments pursuant to the provisions of Articles  FOURTH  and  SEVENTH, 
above, shall be effective solely with respect to the portion of the Formula Value of the
Employee s CLC Shares that were awarded and vested before January 1, 2005 (the
 Grandfathered Shares ). 

(d) 
       
      Limitations Applicable to Specified Employees . No portion of the
Formula Value of a Specified Employee s 409A Shares shall be paid before the expiration
of the six-month period specified in Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) and the regulations
thereunder. This delay shall not affect the payment of any portion of the Formula
Value of a Specified Employee s Grandfathered Shares. For purposes of this Plan,
 Specified Employee  shall mean a  key employee  (within the meaning of Code Section
416(i) without regard to paragraph (5) thereof) who is one of the top 50 highest paid
officers of the Company on the applicable determination date pursuant to procedures
adopted by the Company. For purposes of identifying Specified Employees under this
Article  SEVENTEENTH,   compensation  shall be determined under the safe harbor
definition set forth in Treasury Regulation Section 1.415(d)-2(d)(3) and shall exclude
all compensation permitted under Treasury Regulation Section 1.415(c)-2(g)(ii). 

(e) 
       
      Payment Upon Termination of the Plan . Upon termination of the Plan
pursuant to Article  SIXTEENTH  hereof with respect to all Employees and the
termination of all other arrangements sponsored by the Company that would be aggregated
with the Plan under Section 409A, the Company shall have the right, in its sole
discretion, and notwithstanding any elections made by an Employee, to pay the Formula
Value of an Employee s 409A Shares in a lump sum to the extent permitted under Section
409A and the regulations and guidance thereunder. All payments made under this Article
 SEVENTEENTH  upon termination of the Plan shall be made no earlier than the thirteenth
(13 th ) month and no later than the twenty-fourth (24 th ) month
after the termination of the Plan. The Company may not accelerate payments pursuant to
this Article  SEVENTEENTH  if the termination of the Plan is proximate to a downturn in
the Company s financial health. If the Company exercises its discretion to accelerate
payments under this Article  SEVENTEENTH,  the Company shall not adopt any new
arrangement that would have been aggregated with the Plan under Section 409A within
three (3) years following the date of the Plan s termination. 

(f) 
       
      Provisions Intended to Ensure Compliance with Code Section 409A . This
Article  SEVENTEENTH  and any other provision of this Plan that applies to 409A Shares,
including the rights of the Company or an Employee with respect to the 409A Shares,
shall be limited to those terms permitted under Section 409A. Any terms not permitted
under Section 409A shall be automatically modified and limited to the extent necessary
to comply with Section 409A, but only to the extent such modification or limitation is
permitted under Section 409A. 

Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary, effective as of October 3, 2004,
the Company may, in its discretion, require or permit on an elective basis a change in
the payment terms applicable to an Employee s 409A Shares in accordance with, and to the
fullest extent permitted by, applicable guidance under Section 409A, including, but not
limited to, IRS Notice 2005-1, Proposed Treasury Regulations Section 1.409A, Preamble
Section XI.C, and IRS Notice 2007-86, provided that such election (i) is made on or
before December 31, 2008, (ii) applies only to amounts that would not otherwise be
payable in the year of the election, and (iii) does not cause an amount to be paid in
the year of the election that would not otherwise be payable in that year. 

(g) 
       
      Provisions Not Applicable to Grandfathered Shares . This Article
 SEVENTEENTH  shall in no event apply to any portion of the Formula Value of an
Employee s Grandfathered Shares. No amendment or change to this Plan or any other change (including an exercise of
discretion) with respect to the Grandfathered Shares made after October 3, 2004, shall
be effective if such amendment or change would constitute a  material modification 
within the meaning of Section 409A.  

CERTIFICATION OF SECTION 409A AMENDMENTS  
  TO CERTAIN DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLANS  

WHEREAS, Johnson   Johnson (the  Company ) maintains the Certificate of Extra Compensation
Plan, the Executive Income Deferral Plan, and the Deferred Fee Plan for Directors (collectively,
the  Plans 

WHEREAS, the Compensation   Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the
 Committee ) has previously approved and authorized certain amendments to the Plans to comply with
the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and all
regulations and other guidance thereunder, ( Section 409A ), and to make other non-material
changes; and

WHEREAS, the Committee has delegated to the Management Compensation Committee ( the MCC ) the
authority (i) to take all actions necessary and proper to effectuate amendments to the Plans that
have been approved and authorized by the Committee; and (ii) to approve and adopt any amendment(s)
to the Plans that may be necessary to comply with changes to any legal or regulatory requirements
that apply to the Plans.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the MCC hereby certifies that each Plan shall be amended
to incorporate the amendments attached hereto, effective as of January 1, 2009, unless otherwise
specifically set forth therein; and

FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Vice President, Human Resources of the Company, upon consultation
and approval of counsel, is hereby authorized to take any and all actions that she, in her
discretion, determines (i) to be necessary or appropriate to incorporate the attached amendments
into the applicable Plan, or (ii) to ensure that each Plan, as amended, is properly administered,
including, but not limited to, (A) making all conforming changes to the Plan and/or restating the
Plan in its entirety, (B) adopting any additional amendments to the Plan that may be necessary or
proper to comply with Section 409A, and (C) adopting and/or amending administrative policies and
procedures under the Plan.

DATED: December 16, 2008 
       
      MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION COMMITTEE 
OF JOHNSON   JOHNSON  

NAME:

/s/ W. C. Weldon 

W. C. WELDON

TITLE:

(Chairman) 

NAME:

/s/ D. J. Caruso 

D. J. CARUSO

TITLE:

(Member) 

NAME:

/s/ K. Foster-Cheek 

K. FOSTER-CHEEK

TITLE:

(Member) 

NAME:

/s/ C. A. Poon 

C. A. POON

TITLE:

(Member) 

</EX-10.J>

<EX-10.L>
 3
 y74152exv10wl.htm
 EX-10.L: AMENDMENTS TO THE DEFERRED FEE PLAN FOR DIRECTORS

EX-10.L 

Exhibit 10(l) 

AMENDMENTS TO THE  
  DEFERRED FEE PLAN FOR DIRECTORS  

The Deferred Fee Plan for Directors (the  Plan ) shall be amended by inserting the following new
Section at the end of the Plan, effective as of January 1, 2009, or as of the date otherwise
specifically provided below:

18.  Section 409A Requirements . Notwithstanding any other provision of the
Plan to the contrary, effective as of January 1, 2009, the terms of this Section 18 shall
apply to the payment of a participant s deferred compensation account under the Plan. This
Section 18 is intended to ensure that the terms of the Plan comply with Section 409A of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations and other guidance issued
thereunder ( Section 409A ).

(a) 
       
      Payment of Accounts . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan
to the contrary, effective as of January 1, 2009, the value of a participant s deferred
compensation account shall be payable solely in a single lump sum within the 90-day
period beginning on the participant s Completion Date or date of death, if earlier.
The participant shall have no influence on any determination as to the tax year in
which the payment is made. 

(b) 
       
      No Deferral of Payment . Effective as of January 1, 2009, a participant
may not elect to defer receipt of any portion of his deferred compensation account or
to receive such amounts in the form of installment payments. A participant s election
to defer receipt of any portion of his deferred compensation account or to be paid in
installments pursuant to the provisions of Section 10, above, shall be null and void as
of January 1, 2009. 

(c) 
       
      Provisions Intended to Ensure Compliance with Section 409A . This
Section 18 and any other provision of this Plan that applies to deferrals, including
the rights of the Company or a participant with respect to the deferrals, shall be
limited to those terms permitted under Section 409A. Any terms not permitted under
Section 409A shall be automatically modified and limited to the extent necessary to
comply with Section 409A, but only to the extent such modification or limitation is
permitted under Section 409A. 

(d) 
       
      Payment Upon Termination of the Plan . Upon termination of the Plan
pursuant to this Section 18 with respect to all participants and the termination of all
other arrangements sponsored by the Company that would be aggregated with the Plan
under Section 409A, the Company shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to pay to
each participant the value of his deferred compensation account in a lump sum to the
extent permitted under Section 409A. All payments made under this Section 18 upon
termination of the Plan shall be made no earlier than the thirteenth (13 th )
month and no later than the twenty-fourth (24 th ) month after the termination
of the Plan. The Company may not accelerate payments pursuant to this Section 18 if
the termination of the Plan is proximate to a downturn in the Company s financial
health. If the Company exercises its discretion to accelerate payments under this
Section 18, the Company shall not adopt any new arrangement that would have been
aggregated with the Plan under Section 409A within three (3) years following the date
of the Plan s termination.  

CERTIFICATION OF SECTION 409A AMENDMENTS  
  TO CERTAIN DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLANS  

WHEREAS, Johnson   Johnson (the  Company ) maintains the Certificate of Extra Compensation
Plan, the Executive Income Deferral Plan, and the Deferred Fee Plan for Directors (collectively,
the  Plans 

WHEREAS, the Compensation   Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the
 Committee ) has previously approved and authorized certain amendments to the Plans to comply with
the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and all
regulations and other guidance thereunder, ( Section 409A ), and to make other non-material
changes; and

WHEREAS, the Committee has delegated to the Management Compensation Committee ( the MCC ) the
authority (i) to take all actions necessary and proper to effectuate amendments to the Plans that
have been approved and authorized by the Committee; and (ii) to approve and adopt any amendment(s)
to the Plans that may be necessary to comply with changes to any legal or regulatory requirements
that apply to the Plans.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the MCC hereby certifies that each Plan shall be amended
to incorporate the amendments attached hereto, effective as of January 1, 2009, unless otherwise
specifically set forth therein; and

FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Vice President, Human Resources of the Company, upon consultation
and approval of counsel, is hereby authorized to take any and all actions that she, in her
discretion, determines (i) to be necessary or appropriate to incorporate the attached amendments
into the applicable Plan, or (ii) to ensure that each Plan, as amended, is properly administered,
including, but not limited to, (A) making all conforming changes to the Plan and/or restating the
Plan in its entirety, (B) adopting any additional amendments to the Plan that may be necessary or
proper to comply with Section 409A, and (C) adopting and/or amending administrative policies and
procedures under the Plan.

DATED: December 16, 2008 
       
      MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION COMMITTEE  

OF JOHNSON   JOHNSON  

NAME:

/s/ W. C. Weldon

W. C. WELDON

TITLE:

(Chairman) 

NAME:

/s/ D. J. Caruso

D. J. CARUSO

TITLE:

(Member) 

NAME:

/s/ K. Foster-Cheek

K. FOSTER-CHEEK

TITLE:

(Member) 

NAME:

/s/ C. A. Poon

C. A. POON

TITLE:

(Member) 

</EX-10.L>

<EX-10.N>
 4
 y74152exv10wn.htm
 EX-10.N: AMENDMENTS TO THE EXECUTIVE INCOME DEFERRAL PLAN

EX-10.N 

Exhibit 10(n) 

AMENDMENTS TO THE  
  EXECUTIVE INCOME DEFERRAL PLAN  

The Executive Income Deferral Plan (the  Plan ) shall be amended by inserting the following two new
Sections at the end of the Plan, effective as of January 1, 2009, or as of the date otherwise
specifically provided below:

13.  Section 409A Requirements . Notwithstanding any other provision of the
Plan to the contrary, effective as of January 1, 2009, the terms of this Section 13 shall
apply to the deferral of income elected on or after January 1, 2005 (the  409A Deferrals ),
and the payment of such amounts. This Section 13 is intended to ensure that the terms of
the Plan comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the
regulations and other guidance issued thereunder ( Section 409A ).

(a) 
       
      Creation of 409A Accounts . Effective as of January 1, 2005, each
participant s Income Deferral Account shall be divided into two separate accounts as
follows: (i) a  409A Account,  which shall consist of all 409A Deferrals and the
earnings thereon; and (ii) a  Grandfathered Account,  which shall consist of all
Deferred Awards credited to a participant s Income Deferral Account before January 1,
2005 (the  Grandfathered Deferrals ). Except as specifically provided in this Section
13, all references in this Plan to Income Deferral Accounts shall include the 409A
Account and the Grandfathered Account, and all references to Deferred Awards shall
include the 409A Deferrals and the Grandfathered Deferrals. 

(b) 
       
      Election of 409 Deferrals : No participant may elect to defer any
portion of any dividend equivalents that are payable under the Company s CEC Plan on
or after January 1, 2009. Effective as of January 1, 2005, each participant may elect
(i) to defer any non-performance-based compensation, incentive payment, or dividend
equivalent monies for services performed during a taxable year, provided such election
is made on or before the end of the taxable year preceding the year in which services
are rendered; and (ii) to defer any performance based compensation (as defined in
Treasury Regulations Section 1.409A-1(e)) on or before the date that is six months
before the end of the performance period, provided that in no event may such election
be made after such compensation has become readily ascertainable. The Company shall
establish procedures applicable to the form and timing of such deferral elections in
accordance with the provisions of this Section 13(b). 

(c) 
       
      Payment of 409A Accounts . The value of a participant s 409A Account
shall be payable only upon the occurrence of a 409A Payment Event. The Company shall
pay the value of a participant s 409A Account in a single lump sum as soon as
practicable after the later of (i) the expiration of the six-month period specified in
Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, (the
 Code ) and the regulations thereunder, and (ii) January 15 of the year immediately
following the year of the 409A Payment Event. The participant shall have no influence
on any determination as to the tax year in which the payment is made. 

(d) 
       
      409A Payment Event . For purposes of this Plan, the term  409A
Payment Event  shall mean the date on which one of the following occurs with respect
to a participant (or a date related to the occurrence of one of the following): 

i) 
       
     Separation from Service (within the meaning
of Treasury Regulations Section 1.409A-1(h) and other applicable
rules under Section 409A); 

ii) 
       
     Death; or 

iii) 
       
     Disability (within the meaning of Code
Section 409A(a)(2)(C) and the regulations thereunder). 

With respect to a participant who is placed on  long-term disability,  the Company
shall determine whether a Separation from Service has occurred with respect to the
participant based on the facts and circumstances for purposes of establishing the
time of payment for the participant s 409A Account. The Company s determination
shall be made initially within 60 days of the date the participant is placed on
 long-term disability,  and each anniversary of such date thereafter. 

(e) 
       
      No Deferral of Payment . A participant may not elect to defer receipt
of any portion of his 409A Account or to receive such amounts in the form of
installment payments. A participant s election to defer receipt of any portion of his
Income Deferral Account or to be paid in installments pursuant to the provisions of
Section 7, above, shall be effective solely with respect to the participant s
Grandfathered Account and shall in no event apply to his 409A Account. 

(f) 
       
      Provisions Intended to Ensure Compliance with Section 409A . This
Section 13 and any other provision of this Plan that applies to 409A Deferrals and
409A Accounts, including the rights of the Company or a participant with respect to
the 409A Deferrals and 409A Accounts, shall be limited to those terms permitted under
Section 409A. Any terms not permitted under Section 409A shall be automatically
modified and limited to the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, but only to
the extent such modification or limitation is permitted under Section 409A. 

Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary, effective as of October 3,
2004, the Company may, in its discretion, require or permit on an elective basis a
change in the payment terms applicable to a participant s 409A Account in
accordance with, and to the fullest extent permitted by, applicable guidance under
Section 409A, including, but not limited to, IRS Notice 2005-1, Proposed Treasury
Regulations Section 1.409A, Preamble Section XI.C, and IRS Notice 2007-86, provided
that such election (i) is made on or before December 31, 2008, (ii) applies only to
amounts that would not otherwise be payable in the year of the election, and (iii)
does not cause an amount to be paid in the year of the election that would not
otherwise be payable in that year. 

(g) 
       
      Provisions Not Applicable to Grandfathered Deferrals and Grandfathered
Accounts . This Section 13 shall in no event apply to any portion of a
participant s Grandfather Deferrals or Grandfathered Account. No amendment or change
to this Plan or any other change (including an exercise of discretion) with respect to
the Grandfathered Deferrals or Grandfathered Accounts made after October 3, 2004,
shall be effective if such amendment or change would constitute a  material
modification  within the meaning of Section 409A. 

14.  Payment Upon Termination of the Plan . The Company may terminate the Plan at any time.
However, such amendment shall not without the consent of a participant, materially adversely affect
any right or obligation with respect to any Deferred Award made theretofore. Upon termination of
the Plan pursuant to this Section 14 with respect to all participants and the termination of all
other arrangements sponsored by the Company that would be aggregated with the Plan under Section
409A, the Company shall have the right, in its sole discretion, and notwithstanding any elections
made by a participant, to pay to each participant the value of his Income Deferral Account in a
lump sum to the extent permitted under Section 409A. All payments made under this Section 14 upon
termination of the Plan shall be made no earlier than the thirteenth (13 th ) month and no
later than the twenty-fourth (24 th ) month after the termination of the Plan. The
Company may not accelerate payments pursuant to this Section 14 if the termination of the Plan is
proximate to a downturn in the Company s financial health. If the Company exercises its discretion
to accelerate payments under this Section 14, the Company shall not adopt any new arrangement that
would have been aggregated with the Plan under Section 409A within three (3) years following the
date of the Plan s termination. 

CERTIFICATION OF SECTION 409A AMENDMENTS  
  TO CERTAIN DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLANS  

WHEREAS, Johnson   Johnson (the  Company ) maintains the Certificate of Extra Compensation
Plan, the Executive Income Deferral Plan, and the Deferred Fee Plan for Directors (collectively,
the  Plans 

WHEREAS, the Compensation   Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the
 Committee ) has previously approved and authorized certain amendments to the Plans to comply with
the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and all
regulations and other guidance thereunder, ( Section 409A ), and to make other non-material
changes; and

WHEREAS, the Committee has delegated to the Management Compensation Committee ( the MCC ) the
authority (i) to take all actions necessary and proper to effectuate amendments to the Plans that
have been approved and authorized by the Committee; and (ii) to approve and adopt any amendment(s)
to the Plans that may be necessary to comply with changes to any legal or regulatory requirements
that apply to the Plans.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the MCC hereby certifies that each Plan shall be amended
to incorporate the amendments attached hereto, effective as of January 1, 2009, unless otherwise
specifically set forth therein; and

FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Vice President, Human Resources of the Company, upon consultation
and approval of counsel, is hereby authorized to take any and all actions that she, in her
discretion, determines (i) to be necessary or appropriate to incorporate the attached amendments
into the applicable Plan, or (ii) to ensure that each Plan, as amended, is properly administered,
including, but not limited to, (A) making all conforming changes to the Plan and/or restating the
Plan in its entirety, (B) adopting any additional amendments to the Plan that may be necessary or
proper to comply with Section 409A, and (C) adopting and/or amending administrative policies and
procedures under the Plan.

DATED: December 16, 2008 
       
      MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION COMMITTEE 

OF JOHNSON   JOHNSON  

NAME:

/s/ W. C. Weldon

W. C. WELDON

TITLE:

(Chairman) 

NAME:

/s/ D. J. Caruso

D. J. CARUSO

TITLE:

(Member) 

NAME:

/s/ K. Foster-Cheek

K. FOSTER-CHEEK

TITLE:

(Member) 

NAME:

/s/ C. A. Poon

C. A. POON

TITLE:

(Member) 

</EX-10.N>

<EX-10.P>
 5
 y74152exv10wp.htm
 EX-10.P: AMENDMENTS TO THE JOHNSON & JOHNSON EXCESS SAVINGS PLAN

EX-10.P 

Exhibit 10(p) 

AMENDMENTS TO THE  
  JOHNSON   JOHNSON EXCESS SAVINGS PLAN  

Effective as of January 1, 2009, or the date otherwise specifically provided below, the Johnson  
Johnson Excess Savings Plan (the  Plan ) shall be amended to insert the following new 409A Addendum
at the end of the Plan:

409A Addendum  

1. 
       
      Section 409A Requirements . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to
the contrary, effective as of January 1, 2009, the terms of this 409A Addendum shall apply
to the payment of a participant s Excess Savings Account. This 409A Addendum is intended
to ensure that the terms of the Plan comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended, and the regulations and other guidance issued thereunder ( Section
409A ). The provisions of this 409A Addendum and any other section of the Plan that
applies to the payment of benefits on or after January 1, 2009, shall be limited to those
terms permitted under Section 409A. Any terms of the Plan that are not permitted under
Section 409A shall be automatically modified and limited to the extent necessary to comply
with Section 409A, but only to the extent such modification or limitation is permitted
under Section 409A. 

2. 
       
      409A Payment Event . No payment shall be made to, or in respect of, any
participant under this Plan prior to the occurrence of a 409A Payment Event. For purposes
of this Plan, the term  409A Payment Event  shall mean the date on which one of the
following occurs with respect to a participant (or a date related to the occurrence of one
of the following): 

a. 
       
     Separation from Service (within the meaning of Treasury Regulations
Section 1.409A-1(h) and other applicable rules under Section 409A); 

b. 
       
     Death; 

c. 
       
     Disability (within the meaning of Code Section 409A(a)(2)(C) and the
regulations thereunder); 

With respect to a participant who retires from an Approved Absence from  long-term
disability  as defined in the Company s long-term disability income plan, the Company
shall determine whether a Separation from Service has occurred with respect to the
participant based on the facts and circumstances for purposes of establishing the time
of payment for the participant s benefits under the Plan. The Company s determination
shall be made initially within 60 days of the date the participant is placed on
 long-term disability,  and each anniversary of such date thereafter.

3. 
       
      Payment of Excess Savings Accounts   General . Upon the occurrence of a 409A
Payment Event, the value of a participant s Excess Savings Account shall be paid in a
single lump sum within the 90-day period beginning on the date of the 409A Payment Event.
In no event shall a participant have any influence on any determination as to the tax year
in which a payment is made under this Section 3. 

4. 
       
      Payment of Excess Savings Account   Grandfathered Payment Election .
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, if a participant has an
Effective Grandfathered Payment Election in place and his 409A Payment Event occurs after
the participant attains age 55, the value of a participant s Excess Savings Account shall be paid in the form and at
the time so elected by the participant. For purposes of this Plan, an  Effective
Grandfathered Payment Election  is an election by a participant to defer receipt of his
Excess Savings Account and/or to receive payment of his Excess Savings Account in the
form of installment payments that (i) was submitted on or before December 15, 2008; (ii)
was made in accordance with the Plan s rules and procedures in place at the time of such
election, including but not limited to, the form and timing of such election; and (iii)
was made at least 12 months before the participant s 409A Payment Event. The payment
commencement date of a participant s Excess Savings Account under this Section 4 shall
be within the 90-day period beginning on the date of the first scheduled payment
pursuant to the participant s Effective Grandfathered Payment Election. In no event
shall a participant have any influence on any determination as to the tax year in which
a payment is made under this Section 4. The Company shall have the sole and
discretionary authority to determine whether a participant has made an Effective
Grandfathered Payment Election, including the effective date of such election. A
participant s Effective Grandfathered Payment Election shall be irrevocable as of
December 15, 2008, and shall apply to the total value of a participant s Excess Savings
Account. 

5. 
       
      Death of Participant Before Commencement of Benefits . If a participant dies
before his Excess Savings Account is paid, the value of the participant s Excess Savings
Account shall be paid to the participant s beneficiary as soon practicable within the
90-day period beginning on the date of the participant s death. 

The delayed payment rules applicable to Specified Employees shall not apply to payments
made on account of a participant s death.

6. 
       
      No Deferral of Payment . Except as provided in Section 4 of this 409A Addendum
with respect to a participant s Effective Grandfathered Payment Election, a participant may
not elect to defer receipt of any portion of his benefit under the Plan. 

7. 
       
      Delayed Payment Rules for Specified Employees . Notwithstanding anything herein
to the contrary, no portion of a Specified Employee s Excess Savings Account that was
earned or vested after December 31, 2004, and the earnings thereon (the  409A Amount )
shall be payable before the expiration of the six-month period specified in Code Section
409A(a)(2)(B)(i) and the regulations thereunder. For purposes of this Plan,  Specified
Employee  shall mean a  key employee  (within the meaning of Code Section 416(i) without
regard to paragraph (5) thereof) who is one of the top 50 highest paid officers of the
Company on the applicable determination date pursuant to procedures adopted by the Company.
For purposes of identifying Specified Employees under this 409A Addendum,  compensation 
shall be determined under the safe harbor definition set forth in Treasury Regulation
Section 1.415(d)-2(d)(3) and shall exclude all compensation permitted under Treasury
Regulation Section 1.415(c)-2(g)(ii). Any amount that would have been paid to a Specified
Employee but for the six-month delay imposed by this Section 7 of the 409A Addendum shall
be paid in a single lump sum to the participant during the seventh month after the
participant s 409A Payment Event. 

8. 
       
      Designated Payment Date . A payment shall be treated as being made on the
designated payment date if it is actually made on the designated payment date or on a later
date that is either in the same calendar year as the designated payment date or, if later,
by the 15th day of the third calendar month following the designated payment date. In
addition, a payment shall be treated as made on the designated payment date if it is made
no more than 30 days before the designated payment date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a
participant shall in no way be permitted, either directly or indirectly, to designate the
taxable year of a payment under this Plan. 

9. 
       
      Payment Upon Plan Termination . The Company may terminate the Plan at any time.
Upon termination of the Plan with respect to all participants and the termination of all
other arrangements sponsored by the Company that would be aggregated with the Plan under
Section 409A, the Company shall have the right, in its sole discretion, and notwithstanding
any elections made by a participant, to pay to each participant the value of his 409A
Amount in a lump sum to the extent permitted under Section 409A. All payments made under
this Section 9 of the 409A Addendum upon termination of the Plan shall be made no earlier
than the 13 th  month and no later than the 24 th  month after the
termination of the Plan. The Company may not accelerate payments pursuant to this Section
9 of the 409A Addendum if the termination of the Plan is proximate to a downturn in the
Company s financial health. If the Company exercises its discretion to accelerate payments
under this Section 9 of the 409A Addendum, the Company shall not adopt any new arrangement
that would have been aggregated with the Plan under Section 409A within three years
following the date of the Plan s termination.  

CERTIFICATION OF SECTION 409A AMENDMENTS  
  TO CERTAIN EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS  

Effective as of January 1, 2009, or as of such other date otherwise specified therein, the
Severance Pay Plan of Johnson   Johnson and Affiliated Companies, the Excess Benefit Plan of
Johnson   Johnson and Affiliated Companies, and the Johnson   Johnson Excess Savings Plan (the
 Benefit Plans ) shall each be amended to incorporate the applicable amendments attached hereto.

DATED: December 23, 2008

PENSION COMMITTEE  

OF JOHNSON   JOHNSON  

NAME:

/s/ K. Foster-Cheek

K. FOSTER-CHEEK 

TITLE:

(Chair) 

NAME:

/s/ D. J. Caruso 

D. J. CARUSO 

TITLE:

(Member) 

NAME:

/s/ E. Dlugacz 

E. DLUGACZ 

TITLE:

(Member) 

NAME:

/s/ J. A. Papa 

J. A. PAPA 

TITLE:

(Member) 

</EX-10.P>

<EX-10.R>
 6
 y74152exv10wr.htm
 EX-10.R: AMENDMENTS TO THE EXCESS BENEFIT PLAN

EX-10.R 

Exhibit 10(r) 

AMENDMENTS TO THE  
  EXCESS BENEFIT PLAN OF JOHNSON   JOHNSON AND AFFILIATED COMPANIES   

Effective as of January 1, 2009, or the date otherwise specifically provided below, the Excess
Benefit Plan of Johnson   Johnson and Affiliated Companies (the  Plan ) shall be amended to insert
the following new 409A Addendum at the end of the Plan:

409A Addendum  

1. 
       
      Section 409A Requirements . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to
the contrary, effective as of January 1, 2009, the terms of this 409A Addendum shall apply
to the payment of a participant s 409A Benefit. This 409A Addendum is intended to ensure
that the terms of the Plan comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended, and the regulations and other guidance issued thereunder ( Section 409A ). The
provisions of this 409A Addendum and any other section of the Plan that applies to the
payment of benefits on or after January 1, 2009, shall be limited to those terms permitted
under Section 409A. Any terms of the Plan that are not permitted under Section 409A shall
be automatically modified and limited to the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A,
but only to the extent such modification or limitation is permitted under Section 409A. 

2. 
       
      409A Benefit . Effective as of January 1, 2009, each participant s Excess
Pension Benefit shall be split into the participant s 409A Benefit and the participant s
Grandfathered Benefit, as follows: 

a. 
       
      409A Benefit.  A participant s  409A Benefit  shall be equal to
the participant s total accrued benefit under the Plan less the participant s
Grandfathered Benefit. 

b. 
       
      Grandfathered Benefit . A participant s  Grandfathered Benefit 
shall be  the portion of the participant s benefit that was accrued, earned,
and vested as of December 31, 2004, determined under the rules in effect as of that
date. 

3. 
       
      409A Payment Event . No payment shall be made to, or in respect of, a
participant s 409A Benefit under this Plan prior to the occurrence of a 409A Payment Event.
For purposes of this Plan, the term  409A Payment Event  shall mean the date on which one
of the following occurs with respect to a participant (or a date related to the occurrence
of one of the following): 

a. 
       
     Separation from Service (within the meaning of Treasury Regulations
Section 1.409A-1(h) and other applicable rules under Section 409A); 

b. 
       
     Death; 

c. 
       
     Disability (within the meaning of Code Section 409A(a)(2)(C) and the
regulations thereunder); 

With respect to a participant who retires from an Approved Absence from  long-term
disability  as defined in the Company s long-term disability income plan, the Company
shall determine whether a Separation from Service has occurred with respect to the
participant based on the facts and circumstances for purposes of establishing the time
of payment for the participant s benefits
under the Plan. The Company s determination shall be made initially within 60 days of
the date the participant is placed on  long-term disability,  and each anniversary of
such date thereafter.

4. 
       
      Payment of 409A Benefit . Upon the occurrence of a 409A Payment Event, a
participant s 409A Benefit shall be paid on the participant s Pension Commencement Date.
For purposes of this Plan, a participant s  Pension Commencement Date  shall be the first
day of the month on or after the participant s (i) 55 th  birthday or (ii) 409A
Payment Event, whichever is later. The time and form of payment of a participant s
Grandfathered Benefit shall be governed by the terms of the Plan in effect as of October 3,
2004. 

5. 
       
      Form of Payment of 409A Benefit . Unless otherwise elected by a participant
pursuant to applicable rules and procedures under the Plan, a participant s 409A Benefit
shall be payable in the form of a single life annuity if the participant is single when the
payment commences, or in the form of a joint and 50% surviving spouse annuity if the
participant is married when the distribution commences. A participant may elect in
writing, in such manner, at such times, and pursuant to any rules and procedures as the
Company may adopt, to receive his 409A Benefit in any form of payment that is available
under the Consolidated Retirement Plan of Johnson   Johnson (the  Qualified Plan ), other
than the Level Income Options, provided that such election satisfies each of the following
conditions: 

a. 
       
     The change in the form of payment complies with Section 409A and
Treasury Regulations Section 1.409A-2(b)(2)(ii); 

b. 
       
     Payment of the participant s 409A Benefit has not commenced as of the
date of the election; 

c. 
       
     The actuarially equivalent life annuity form elected by the participant
has the same scheduled Payment Commencement Date as the annuity that would otherwise
have been paid absent such election; and 

d. 
       
     The annuities are determined by the Company to be actuarially
equivalent applying reasonable actuarial assumptions and methods. 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the lump sum value of a participant s total accrued
benefit under the Plan is less than $5,000, the participant s total benefit under the
Plan shall be paid to the participant or the participant s beneficiary, in the event of
the participant s death, in a single lump sum as soon as practicable within the 90-day
period commencing on the participant s 409A Payment Event. In addition, if a
participant is eligible to receive any portion of his 409A Benefit in the form of a lump
sum payment, that portion of his 409A Benefit shall be paid to him in the form of a lump
sum on the participant s Pension Commencement Date, and the remaining portion of his
409A Benefit shall be paid in the applicable annuity form in accordance with this
Section 5.

6. 
       
      Death of Participant Before Commencement of Benefits . If a participant dies
before his Pension Commencement Date, his 409A Benefit shall be paid to the participant s
beneficiary commencing as of the first day of the month on or after (i) the participant s
55th birthday or (ii) the participant s date of death, whichever is later. The delayed
payment rules applicable to Specified Employees shall not apply to payments made on account
of a participant s death. 

7. 
       
      No Deferral of Payment . A participant may not elect to defer receipt of any
portion of his benefit under the Plan. 

8. 
       
      Delayed Payment Rules for Specified Employees . Notwithstanding anything herein
to the contrary, no portion of a Specified Employee s 409A Benefit shall be payable before
the expiration of the six-month period specified in Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) and the
regulations thereunder. For purposes of this Plan,  Specified Employee  shall mean a  key
employee  (within the meaning of Code Section 416(i) without regard to paragraph (5)
thereof) who is one of the top 50 highest paid officers of the Company on the applicable
determination date pursuant to procedures adopted by the Company. For purposes of
identifying Specified Employees under this 409A Addendum,  compensation  shall be
determined under the safe harbor definition set forth in Treasury Regulation Section
1.415(d)-2(d)(3) and shall exclude all compensation permitted under Treasury Regulation
Section 1.415(c)-2(g)(ii). Any amount that would have been paid to a Specified Employee
but for the six-month delay imposed by this Section 8 of the 409A Addendum shall be paid in
a single lump sum to the participant during the seventh month after the participant s 409A
Payment Event. 

This Section 8 of the 409A Addendum shall in no event apply to a participant s Grandfathered
Benefit.

9. 
       
      Designated Payment Date . A payment shall be treated as being made on the
designated payment date if it is actually made on the designated payment date or on a later
date that is either in the same calendar year as the designated payment date or, if later,
by the 15th day of the third calendar month following the designated payment date. In
addition, a payment shall be treated as made on the designated payment date if it is made
no more than 30 days before the designated payment date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a
participant shall in no way be permitted, either directly or indirectly, to designate the
taxable year of a payment under this Plan. 

10. 
       
      Payment Upon Plan Termination . The Company may terminate the Plan at any time.
Upon termination of the Plan with respect to all participants and the termination of all
other arrangements sponsored by the Company that would be aggregated with the Plan under
Section 409A, the Company shall have the right, in its sole discretion, and notwithstanding
any elections made by a participant, to pay to each participant the actuarially equivalent
value of his Excess Pension Benefit determined as of the Plan termination date in a lump
sum, to the extent permitted under Section 409A. All payments made under this Section 10
of the 409A Addendum upon termination of the Plan shall be made no earlier than the
13 th  month and no later than the 24 th  month after the termination of
the Plan. The Company may not accelerate payments pursuant to this Section 10 of the 409A
Addendum if the termination of the Plan is proximate to a downturn in the Company s
financial health. If the Company exercises its discretion to accelerate payments under
this Section 10 of the 409A Addendum, the Company shall not adopt any new arrangement that
would have been aggregated with the Plan under Section 409A within three years following
the date of the Plan s termination. 

11. 
       
      Special Transition Election . Notwithstanding any other provision to the
contrary, effective as of October 3, 2004, the Company may, in its discretion, require or
permit on an elective basis a change in the payment terms applicable to a participant s
409A Benefit in accordance with, and to the fullest extent permitted by, applicable
guidance under Section 409A, including, but not limited to, IRS Notice 2005-1, Proposed
Treasury Regulations Section 1.409A, Preamble Section XI.C, and IRS Notice 2007-86,
provided that such election (i) is made on or before December 31, 2008, (ii) applies only
to amounts that would not otherwise be payable in the year of the election, and (iii) does
not cause an amount to be paid in the year of the election that would not otherwise be
payable in that year. In particular, with respect to a participant who is eligible to
receive a portion of his 409A Benefit in the form of a lump sum payment, the Company may,
in its discretion, permit such participant to make an irrevocable
election on or before December 31, 2008, to receive such portion in a lump sum payment as of his
Pension Commencement Date. Any payment election made by a participant to receive his
benefit in a lump sum payment under this Section 11 of the 409A Addendum shall be
irrevocable as of the date submitted in accordance with the procedures established by
the Company.

12. 
       
      Provisions Not Applicable to Grandfathered Benefits . Unless otherwise
specifically provided for herein, this 409A Addendum shall in no event apply to any portion
of a participant s Grandfathered Benefit. No amendment or change to this Plan or any other
change (including an exercise of discretion) with respect to a participant s Grandfathered
Benefit made after October 3, 2004, shall be effective if such amendment or change would
constitute a  material modification  within the meaning of Section 409A. 

CERTIFICATION OF SECTION 409A AMENDMENTS  
  TO CERTAIN EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS  

Effective as of January 1, 2009, or as of such other date otherwise specified therein, the
Severance Pay Plan of Johnson   Johnson and Affiliated Companies, the Excess Benefit Plan of
Johnson   Johnson and Affiliated Companies, and the Johnson   Johnson Excess Savings Plan (the
 Benefit Plans ) shall each be amended to incorporate the applicable amendments attached hereto.

DATED: December 23, 2008

PENSION COMMITTEE  

OF JOHNSON   JOHNSON  

NAME:

/s/ K. Foster-Cheek

K. FOSTER-CHEEK 

TITLE:

(Chair) 

NAME:

/s/ D. J. Caruso 

D. J. CARUSO 

TITLE:

(Member) 

NAME:

/s/ E. Dlugacz 

E. DLUGACZ 

TITLE:

(Member) 

NAME:

/s/ J. A. Papa 

J. A. PAPA 

TITLE:

(Member) 

</EX-10.R>

<EX-10.V>
 7
 y74152exv10wv.htm
 EX-10.V: SUMMARY OF COMPENSATION ARRANGEMENTS

EX-10.V 

EXHIBIT 10(v)  

Summary
    of Compensation Arrangements for 
    Named Executive Officers and Directors  

Compensation
    Arrangements for Named Executive Officers  

Following is a description of the compensation arrangements that
    have been approved by the Compensation   Benefits
    Committee of the Board of Directors of Johnson  
    Johnson (the  Compensation Committee ) on
    February 9, 2009 for the Company s Chief Executive
    Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the other three most highly
    compensated executive officers in 2008 (the  Named
    Executive Officers ).

Annual
    Base Salary:   

The Compensation Committee has approved the following base
    salaries, effective February 23, 2009, for the Named
    Executive Officers:

While the Compensation Committee had recommended a merit
    increase in Mr. Weldon s base salary for 2009 based on
    his strong performance in 2008, Mr. Weldon recommended to
    the Compensation Committee that his salary for 2009 stay the
    same as it was for 2008, in recognition of the current global
    economic environment. The Compensation Committee accepted and
    approved Mr. Weldon s recommendation.

Performance
    Bonus:   

The Compensation Committee has approved the following bonus
    performance payments for performance in 2008 (paid in the form
    of 85% cash and 15% Company Common Stock as determined by the
    Compensation Committee):

Stock
    Option and Restricted Share Unit Grants:   

The Compensation Committee has approved the following stock
    option and Restricted Share Unit ( RSU ) grants under
    the Company s 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  LTI
    Plan ). The stock options were granted at an exercise price
    of $58.33, at the  fair market value  (calculated as
    the average of the high and low prices of the Company s
    Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange) on February 9,
    2009. The options will become exercisable on February 10,
    2012 and expire on February 8, 2019. The RSUs will vest on
    February 9, 2012, upon which, the holder, if still employed
    by the Company on such date, will receive one share of the
    Company s Common Stock for each RSU.

Non-Equity
    Incentive Plan Awards:   

The Compensation Committee has approved the following non-equity
    incentive plan awards in recognition of performance during 2008
    under the Company s Certificate of
     Long-Term 
    Compensation ( CLC ) program (formerly known as the
    Certificate of Extra Compensation program). Awards are not paid
    out until retirement or other termination of employment. As of
    the end of fiscal year 2008, the CLC value per unit was $32.47.
    The CLC unit value will vary over time based on the performance
    of the Company. Awards of CLC units are not granted to every
    executive officer for every year.

Equity
    Compensation for Non-Employee Directors  

Each Non-Employee Director receives non-retainer equity
    compensation in the first quarter of each year under the LTI
    Plan in the form of shares of restricted Common Stock having a
    fair market value of $100,000 on the grant date. Accordingly,
    each Non-Employee Director was granted 1,714 shares of
    restricted Common Stock under the LTI Plan on February 9,
    2009 for service on the Board in 2008. The restricted shares
    will become freely transferable on February 9, 2012.

</EX-10.V>

<EX-10.W>
 8
 y74152exv10ww.htm
 EX-10.W: SEVERANCE ARRANGEMENT FOR ALEX GORSKY

EX-10.W 

Exhibit 10(w) 

KAYE FOSTER   CHEEK 
Executive Committee Member 
Vice President, Human Resources 

Johnson   Johnson 

One Johnson   Johnson Plaza 
New Brunswick, NJ 08550 

February 19, 2009

Mr. Alex Gorsky 
Worldwide Chairman, Surgical Care Group 
Executive Committee Member 
Johnson   Johnson 
One Johnson   Johnson Plaza 
New Brunswick, NJ 08933

Dear Alex:

The forgoing shall reconfirm the mutual understanding between you and Johnson   Johnson (the
 Company ) regarding the terms of your severance arrangement, originally agreed to in your offer
letter dated January 9, 2008.

If the Company terminates your employment, other than for cause, within two years from February 11,
2008, the date you rejoined the Company, you shall be offered, in return for your execution of a
general release, a severance payment in an amount determined in accordance with the Johnson  
Johnson Severance Pay Plan, which severance payment shall be, however, in a minimum amount equal to
one year of base salary. In addition, the Company will make a payment to you, upon execution of a
general release, equal to one year of base salary in the event that you resign upon the Company s
requirement that you relocate your employment outside the New Jersey-Eastern Pennsylvania area
within two years of February 11, 2008 without your consent. Any payment pursuant to this letter
agreement shall not be subject to mitigation or right of set-off, but shall be subject to
appropriate taxes and withholdings.

Upon your acceptance of this letter agreement, the foregoing will replace and supercede all
previous agreements, either written or oral, regarding the terms of your severance arrangement.
Please signify your acceptance of the terms of this letter agreement by signing one copy of this
letter agreement and returning it to me. If you have any questions concerning this letter
agreement, please feel free to give me a call.

Sincerely, 
 
/s/ Kaye Foster-Cheek 
  
KAYE FOSTER-CHEEK 
Executive Committee Member 
Vice President, Human Resources 

cc:

M. Ullmann 

L. Uthgenannt 

D. Ng 

Alex Gorsky 
February 19, 2009 
Page 2 of 2

Agreed   Accepted:

</EX-10.W>

<EX-12>
 9
 y74152exv12.htm
 EX-12: STATEMENT OF COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

EX-12 

EXHIBIT 12  

JOHNSON
      JOHNSON AND SUBSIDIARIES 

STATEMENT
    OF COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED
    CHARGES (1) 

(Dollars
    in Millions)  

(1)   

The ratio of earnings to fixed charges is computed by dividing
    the sum of earnings before provision for taxes on income and
    fixed charges by fixed charges. Fixed charges represent interest
    expense (before interest is capitalized), amortization of debt
    discount and an appropriate interest factor on operating leases.

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 10
 y74152exv13.htm
 EX-13: PAGES OF COMPANY'S ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS

EX-13 

Exhibit 13

Table of Contents 

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 

34 

Organization and Business Segments

34 

Results of Operations

35 

Analysis of Sales by Business Segments

37 

Analysis of Consolidated Earnings Before Provision for
Taxes on Income

40 

Liquidity and Capital Resources

41 

Other Information

43 

Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results

AUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

44 

Consolidated Balance Sheets

45 

Consolidated Statements of Earnings

46 

Consolidated Statements of Equity

47 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

48 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

69 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

69 

Management s Report on Internal Control over

Financial Reporting

70 

Summary of Operations and Statistical Data 1998-2008

71 

Shareholder Return Performance Graphs

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition 

Organization and Business Segments 

DESCRIPTION OF THE COMPANY AND BUSINESS SEGMENTS  

Johnson   Johnson and its subsidiaries (the  Company ) have approximately 118,700 employees
worldwide engaged in the research and development, manufacture and sale of a broad range of
products in the health care field. The Company conducts business in virtually all countries of the
world with the primary focus on products related to human health and well-being.

The Company is organized into three business segments: Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical
Devices and Diagnostics. The Consumer segment includes a broad range of products used in the baby
care, skin care, oral care, wound care and women s health care fields, as well as nutritional and
over-the-counter pharmaceutical products. These products are marketed to the general public and
sold both to distributors and directly to independent and chain retail outlets throughout the
world. The Pharmaceutical segment includes products in the following therapeutic areas:
anti-infective, antipsychotic, cardiovascular, contraceptive, dermatology, gastrointestinal,
hematology, immunology, neurology, oncology, pain management, urology and virology. These products
are distributed directly to retailers, wholesalers and health care professionals for prescription
use. The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment includes a broad range of products used
principally in the professional fields by physicians, nurses, therapists, hospitals, diagnostic
laboratories and clinics. These products include Cordis  circulatory disease management products;
DePuy s orthopaedic joint reconstruction, spinal care and sports medicine products; Ethicon s
surgical care and women s health products; Ethicon Endo-Surgery s minimally invasive surgical
products; LifeScan s blood glucose monitoring and insulin delivery products; Ortho-Clinical
Diagnostics  professional diagnostic products and Vistakon s disposable contact lenses.

The Company s structure is based upon the principle of decentralized management. The Executive
Committee of Johnson   Johnson is the principal management group responsible for the operations and
allocation of the resources of the Company. This Committee oversees and coordinates the activities
of the Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnostics business segments.

In all of its product lines, the Company competes with companies both local and global,
located throughout the world. Competition exists in all product lines without regard to the number
and size of the competing companies involved. Competition in research, involving the development
and the improvement of new and existing products and processes, is particularly significant. The
development of new and innovative products is important to the Company s success in all areas of
its business. This also includes protecting the Company s portfolio of intellectual property. The
competitive environment requires substantial investments in continuing research and in sales
forces. In addition, the development and maintenance of customer demand for the Company s consumer
products involves significant expenditures for advertising and promotion.

MANAGEMENT S OBJECTIVES 

A primary objective of the Company is to achieve superior levels of capital efficient profitable
growth. To accomplish this, the Company s management operates the business consistent with certain
strategic principles that have proven successful over time. To this end, the Company participates
in growth areas in human health care and is committed to attaining leadership positions in these
growth areas through the development of innovative products and services. New products introduced
within the past five years accounted for approximately 30% of 2008 sales. In 2008, $7.6 billion, or
11.9% of sales, was invested in research and development, consistent with 2007. This investment
reflects management s commitment to the importance of ongoing development of new and differentiated
products and services to sustain long-term growth.

With more than 250 operating companies located in 57 countries, the Company views its
principle of decentralized management as an asset and fundamental to the success of a broadly based
business. It also fosters an entrepreneurial spirit, combining the extensive resources of a large
organization with the ability to react quickly to local market changes and challenges.

The Company is committed to developing global business leaders who can drive growth
objectives. Businesses are managed for the long-term in order to sustain leadership positions and
achieve growth that provides an enduring source of value to our shareholders.

Unifying the management team and the Company s dedicated employees in achieving these
objectives is Our Credo. Our Credo provides a common set of values and serves as a constant
reminder of the Company s responsibilities to its customers, employees, communities and shareholders. The
Company believes that these basic principles, along with its overall mission of improving the
quality of life for people everywhere, will enable Johnson   Johnson to continue to be among the
leaders in the health care industry.

Results of Operations 

ANALYSIS OF CONSOLIDATED SALES  

In 2008, worldwide sales increased 4.3% to $63.7 billion, compared to increases of 14.6% in 2007
and 5.6% in 2006. These sales increases consisted of the following:

Sales by U.S. companies were $32.3 billion in 2008, $32.4 billion in 2007 and $29.8 billion in
2006. This represents a decrease of 0.4% in 2008 and increases of 9.0% and 4.9% in 2007 and 2006,
respectively. Sales by international companies were $31.4 billion in 2008, $28.7 billion in 2007
and $23.5 billion in 2006. This represents an increase of 9.7% in 2008, 21.7% in 2007 and 6.4% in
2006.

The five-year compound annual growth rates for worldwide, U.S. and international sales were
8.8%, 5.0% and 13.6%, respectively. The ten-year compound annual growth rates for worldwide, U.S.
and international sales were 10.3%, 9.6% and 11.2%, respectively.

All international geographic regions experienced sales growth during 2008, consisting of 7.3%
in Europe, 10.5% in the Western Hemisphere (excluding the U.S.) and 13.9% in the Asia-Pacific,
Africa regions. These sales increases include the impact of currency fluctuations between the U.S.
dollar and foreign currencies, which had positive impacts of 5.5% in Europe, 2.8% in the Western
Hemisphere (excluding the U.S.) and 5.5% in the Asia-Pacific, Africa region.

In 2008, 2007 and 2006, the Company did not have a customer that represented 10% or more of
total consolidated revenues.

Analysis of Sales by Business Segments 

CONSUMER SEGMENT  

Consumer segment sales in 2008 were $16.0 billion, an increase of 10.8% over 2007 with 8.3% of this
change due to operational growth and the remaining 2.5% due to positive currency fluctuations. U.S.
Consumer segment sales were $6.9 billion, an increase of 8.3%. International sales were $9.1
billion, an increase of 12.8%, with 8.3% as a result of operations and 4.5% due to currency
fluctuations over 2007.

The Over-the-Counter (OTC) Pharmaceuticals and Nutritionals franchise sales were $5.9 billion,
an increase of 14.6% from 2007. The primary contributor to the growth was the successful launch of
over-the-counter ZYRTEC    allergy product line in the U.S. In 2008, the Company announced a
voluntary labeling change on children s cough and cold medicines regarding usage for children under
the age of 4 years, to encourage the safe, effective use of these products. These actions did not
have a significant impact on sales for the OTC Pharmaceuticals and Nutritionals franchise.

The Skin Care franchise sales grew by 10.8% to $3.4 billion in 2008. The sales growth was
primarily due to the AVEENO   , CLEAN   CLEAR   , NEUTROGENA    and JOHNSON S    Adult product lines, as
well as new products related to the acquisition of Beijing Dabao Cosmetics Co. Ltd. The Baby Care
franchise sales grew by 11.7% to $2.2 billion in 2008. This growth was primarily in international
markets across all product lines. The Women s Health franchise sales grew by 5.8% to $1.9 billion
in 2008 primarily due to the successful launch of new products. The Oral Care franchise sales grew
by 9.1% to $1.6 billion in 2008. Sales growth was driven by the performance of the LISTERINE   
mouthwash product line.

Consumer segment sales in 2007 were $14.5 billion, an increase of 48.3% over 2006 with 44.2%
of this change due to operational growth and the remaining 4.1% due to positive currency
fluctuations. U.S. Consumer segment sales were $6.4 billion, an increase of 40.1%. International
sales were $8.1 billion, an increase of 55.5%, with 47.8% as a result of operations and 7.7% due to
currency fluctuations over 2006. The acquisition of Pfizer Inc. s Consumer Healthcare business, net
of the related divestitures, increased both total sales growth and operational growth for the total
Consumer segment by 40.3% in 2007.

Major Consumer Franchise Sales: 

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

35 

PHARMACEUTICAL SEGMENT 

Pharmaceutical segment sales in 2008 were $24.6 billion, a decrease of 1.2% over 2007, with an
operational decline of 3.1% and 1.9% increase due to the positive impact of currency fluctuations.
U.S. Pharmaceutical segment sales were $14.9 billion, a decrease of 4.9%. International
Pharmaceutical segment sales were $9.7 billion, an increase of 5.1%, which included 0.1% of
operational growth and 5.0% related to the positive impact of currency fluctuations.

REMICADE    (infliximab), a biologic approved for the treatment of Crohn s disease, ankylosing
spondylitis, psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, ulcerative colitis and use in the treatment of
rheumatoid arthritis, achieved sales of $3.7 billion in 2008, with growth of 12.7% over prior year.
Growth was driven by increased demand due to the introduction of new clinical data and overall
market growth. REMICADE    is competing in a market which is experiencing increased competition due
to new entrants and the expansion of indications for existing competitors.

TOPAMAX    (topiramate), which has been approved for adjunctive and monotherapy use in epilepsy,
as well as for the prophylactic treatment of migraines, achieved sales of $2.7 billion in 2008, an
increase of 11.3% over prior year. The growth was primarily due to increases in the migraine
category partially offset by generic competition in certain markets outside the U.S. The patent for
TOPAMAX    (topiramate) in the U.S. expired in September 2008. In July 2008, the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) granted pediatric exclusivity for TOPAMAX   , which extends market exclusivity
in the U.S. until March 2009. In 2008, U.S. sales of TOPAMAX    were $2.3 billion. The expiration of
the product patent or loss of market exclusivity is likely to result in a significant reduction in
sales.

PROCRIT    (Epoetin alfa) and EPREX    (Epoetin alfa) had combined sales of $2.5 billion in 2008,
a decline of 14.7% compared to prior year. The decline was primarily due to the declining markets
for Erythropoiesis Stimulating Agents (ESAs) in the U.S. The FDA issued an order requiring a
labeling supplement making specific revisions to the label for ESAs, including PROCRIT   . The label
for PROCRIT    was updated July 30, 2008, based on review of emerging safety data for the use of ESAs
in patients with cancer. Outside the U.S., new competition and the emerging safety data issues have
contributed to the lower sales results for EPREX   . Discussions with European regulators regarding
changes to the label for ESAs, including EPREX   , are nearing finalization.

RISPERDAL    (risperidone), a medication that treats the symptoms of schizophrenia, bipolar
mania and irritability associated with autistic behavior in indicated patients, experienced a sales
decline of 37.8% to $2.1 billion in 2008. Market exclusivity for RISPERDAL    oral in the U.S.
expired on June 29, 2008. Loss of market exclusivity for the RISPERDAL   

oral patent has resulted in
a significant reduction in sales in the U.S. In 2008, U.S. sales of RISPERDAL    oral were $1.3
billion. In the first half of the 2008 fiscal year U.S. sales of RISPERDAL    oral were $1.1 billion
and $0.2 billion in the second half.

RISPERDAL    CONSTA    (risperidone), a long-acting injectable for the treatment of schizophrenia,
achieved sales of $1.3 billion in 2008, representing an increase of 16.0% as compared to the prior
year. The growth was due to a positive shift from once per day therapies to longer-acting
RISPERDAL    CONSTA   .

CONCERTA    (methylphenidate HCl), a product for the treatment of attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), achieved sales of $1.2 billion in 2008, representing an increase of
21.3% over 2007. Sales results were favorably impacted by approximately $115 million related to a
change in the estimate of accrued sales reserves. An additional contributor to the sales growth was
market growth. Although the original CONCERTA    patent expired in 2004, the FDA has not approved any
generic version that is substitutable for CONCERTA   . Two parties have filed Abbreviated New Drug
Applications (ANDAs) for generic versions of CONCERTA   , which are pending and may be approved at
any time.

LEVAQUIN    (levofloxacin)/FLOXIN    (ofloxacin) and ACIPHEX   /PARIET    (rabeprazole sodium)
experienced sales declines of 3.3% and 14.7%, respectively, versus the prior year due to
competition in the category. DURAGESIC   /Fentanyl Transdermal (fentanyl transdermal system) sales
declined 11.0% versus the prior year due to generic competition.

In 2008, Other Pharmaceutical sales were $7.2 billion, representing a growth of 10.9% over
prior year. Contributors to the increase were sales of VELCADE    (bortezomib), a product for the
treatment of multiple myeloma, PREZISTA    (darunavir), for the treatment of HIV/AIDS patients and
INVEGA    (paliperidone), a once-daily atypical antipsychotic.

During 2008, the Company received regulatory approval in the U.S., Canada and European Union
for INTELENCE TM  (etravirine) for HIV combination therapy. STELARA TM
 (ustekinumab) was approved in Canada and the European Union for the treatment of moderate to
severe plaque psoriasis and is currently under review with the FDA. In addition, NUCYNTA TM
 (tapentadol) immediate-release tablets for the relief of
moderate to severe acute pain in adults 18 years of age or older was approved in the U.S.

The Company also received approvals expanding the indications for several key products,
including CONCERTA   , to treat ADHD in adults ages 18 to 65 in the U.S., VELCADE   , in combination
with melphalan and prednisone for the treatment of patients with previously untreated multiple
myeloma in the European Union

Major Pharmaceutical Product Revenues*: 

* Prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current presentation.  

and PREZISTA   , for once-daily dosing as part of HIV combination therapy in treatment-na ve adults
and traditional approval as a twice-daily dose for use in treatment-experienced adult patients in
the U.S. Outside the U.S., the European Commission granted full approval of PREZISTA    in
combination with ritonavir and other anti-retroviral medicinal products for the treatment of HIV-1
infection, and extended the indication to include all treatment-experienced adult patients.

The Company submitted applications for regulatory approval of four additional compounds in
2008. Golimumab, a monthly subcutaneous treatment for adults with active forms of rheumatoid
arthritis, psoriatic arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis, was filed in the U.S. and European
Union. In the U.S., filings were submitted for rivaroxaban, an oral, once-daily anticoagulant for
the prevention of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) in patients undergoing hip
or knee replacement surgery, carisbamate, for the adjunctive treatment of partial-onset seizures in
patients 16 years of age and older, and trabectedin, known as YONDELIS    outside the U.S.,
administered in combination with DOXIL    (doxorubicin HCl liposome injection) for the treatment of
women with relapsed ovarian cancer.

Pharmaceutical segment sales in 2007 were $24.9 billion, an increase of 6.9% over 2006, with
4.3% of this change due to operational growth and the remaining 2.6% increase related to the
positive impact of currency fluctuations. U.S. Pharmaceutical segment sales were $15.6 billion, an
increase of 3.4%. International Pharmaceutical segment sales were $9.3 billion, an increase of
13.3%, which included 5.9% of operational growth and 7.4% related to the positive impact of
currency fluctuations.

MEDICAL DEVICES AND DIAGNOSTICS SEGMENT 

The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment achieved sales of $23.1 billion in 2008, representing
an increase of 6.4% over the prior year, with operational growth of 3.5% and 2.9% due to a positive
impact from currency fluctuations. U.S. sales were $10.5 billion, an increase of 1.0%.
International sales were $12.6 billion, an increase of 11.3%, with 5.8% from operations and a
positive currency impact of 5.5%.

The DePuy franchise achieved sales of $5.0 billion in 2008, an 8.8% increase over prior year.
This growth was primarily due to DePuy s orthopaedic joint reconstruction products, including the
hip and knee product lines. Additionally, new product launches in the Mitek sports medicine product
line contributed to the growth.

The Ethicon Endo-Surgery franchise achieved sales of $4.3 billion in 2008, an 11.8% increase
over prior year. This growth was mainly driven by the HARMONIC    technology business due to the
success of newly launched products and the underlying strength of

the technology. Additional contributors to the growth were the REALIZE    Gastric Band in the U.S. and endoscopy products
outside the U.S.

The Ethicon franchise achieved sales of $3.8 billion in 2008, a 6.6% increase over prior year.
This was a result of growth in the hemostasis, meshes and biosurgical product lines.

Sales in the Cordis franchise were $3.1 billion, a decline of 8.5% over 2007. The decline
reflects lower sales of the CYPHER    Sirolimus-eluting Coronary Stent due to increased global
competition. The decline was partially offset by the performance of the Biosense Webster and
neurovascular businesses.

The Diabetes Care franchise achieved sales of $2.5 billion in 2008, a 6.8% increase over prior
year. This growth was driven by sales in the Animas business due to new product launches and sales
growth in the ULTRA    product lines outside the U.S.

The Vision Care franchise achieved sales of $2.5 billion in 2008, a 13.2% increase over prior
year. Sales of ACUVUE    OASYS , 1-DAY ACUVUE    MOIST , and ACUVUE    OASYS   for ASTIGMATISM  were the
major contributors to this growth.

The Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics franchise achieved sales of $1.8 billion in 2008, an 8.0%
increase over prior year resulting from growth in both immunohematology and immunodiagnostics
products.

The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment achieved sales of $21.7 billion in 2007,
representing an increase over prior year of 7.2%, with operational growth of 3.9% and 3.3% due to a
positive impact from currency fluctuations. U.S. sales were $10.4 billion, an increase of 3.2%.
International sales were $11.3 billion, an increase of 11.1%, with 4.6% from operations and a
positive currency impact of 6.5%.

Analysis of Consolidated Earnings Before Provision for Taxes on Income

Consolidated earnings before provision for taxes on income increased by $3.6 billion to $16.9
billion in 2008 as compared to the $13.3 billion earned in 2007. Contributing to the $3.6 billion increase in 2008
were lower in-process research and development charges of $0.6 billion, higher income from
divestitures of $0.5 billion and higher litigation gains of $0.5 billion versus restructuring
charges of $0.7 billion and the write-down of the NATRECOR    intangible asset of $0.7 billion
recorded in 2007. The decrease in 2007 of 8.9% over the $14.6 billion in 2006 was primarily due to
restructuring charges and the write-down of the NATRECOR    intangible asset in 2007. As a percent to
sales, consolidated earnings before provision for taxes on income in 2008 was 26.5% versus 21.7% in
2007. The sections that follow highlight the significant components of the changes in consolidated
earnings before provision for taxes on income.

Major Medical Devices and Diagnostics Franchise Sales*: 

* Prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current presentation.  

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

37 

Cost of Products Sold and Selling, Marketing and Administrative Expenses:  Cost of products sold and
selling, marketing and administrative expenses as a percent to sales were as follows:

In 2008, cost of products sold as a percent to sales remained flat to the prior year. The change in
the mix of businesses, with higher sales growth in the Consumer business and a slight sales decline
in the Pharmaceutical business continues to have a negative impact on the cost of products sold as
a percent to sales. In 2008, this was offset by manufacturing efficiencies and non-recurring
positive items in 2008 and negative items in 2007. There was an increase in the percent to sales of
selling, marketing and administrative expenses in 2008 primarily due to the change in the mix of
businesses, whereby

a greater proportion of sales were attributable to the Consumer segment, which
has higher selling, marketing and administrative spending. Additionally, in 2008 the Company
utilized the gain associated with the divestiture of the Professional Wound Care business of
Ethicon, Inc. to fund increased investment spending. This was partially offset by ongoing cost
containment efforts.

In 2007, there was an increase in the percent to sales of cost of products sold primarily due
to the impact of newly acquired consumer brands. There was an increase in the percent to sales of
selling, marketing and administrative expenses in 2007 primarily due to the impact of newly
acquired consumer brands partially offset by cost containment efforts.

In 2006, there was an increase in the percent to sales of cost of products sold. This was due
to unfavorable product mix and higher manufacturing costs in the Pharmaceutical and Consumer
segments. There was a decrease in the percent to sales of selling, marketing and administrative
expenses in 2006. This was a result of leveraging selling expenses and a reduction in advertising
and promotional spending.

Research and Development expense (excluding in-process research and development charges) by segment
of business was as follows:

Research and Development:  Research and development activities represent a significant part of the
Company s business. These expenditures relate to the development of new products, improvement of
existing products, technical support of products and compliance with governmental regulations for
the protection of consumers and patients.

In 2008, the reduction in the Pharmaceutical research and development spending was primarily
due to increased efficiencies in Pharmaceutical research and development activities.

Restructuring:  The Company has achieved approximately $1.6 billion in annual cost savings as
outlined in the restructuring program announced in 2007. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional details related to the restructuring.

In-Process Research and Development:  In 2008, the Company recorded a charge for in-process research
and development (IPR D) of $181 million before and after tax related to the acquisitions of Amic
AB, SurgRx, Inc., HealthMedia, Inc. and Omrix Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. HealthMedia, Inc, a
privately held company that creates web-based behavior change interventions, accounted for $7
million before tax of the IPR D charges and was included in the operating profit of the Consumer
segment. The IPR D charges for all of the following acquisitions were included in the operating
profit of the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment. Amic AB, a Swedish developer of in vitro
diagnostic technologies for use in point-of-care and near-patient settings (outside the physical
facilities of the clinical laboratory), accounted for $40 million before tax of the IPR D charges.
SurgRx, Inc., a privately held developer of the advanced bipolar tissue sealing system used in the
ENSEAL    family of devices, accounted for $7 million before tax of the IPR D charges. Omrix
Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.,

a fully integrated biopharmaceutical company that develops and markets
biosurgical and immunotherapy products, accounted for $127 million before tax of the IPR D charges.

In 2007, the Company recorded a charge for IPR D of $807 million before and after tax related
to the acquisition of Conor Medsystems, Inc. The IPR D charge was included in the operating profit
of the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment.

In 2006, the Company recorded IPR D charges of $559 million before tax related to the
acquisitions of the Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc., Vascular Control Systems, Inc.,
Ensure Medical, Inc., ColBar LifeScience Ltd., Hand Innovations LLC and Future Medical Systems S.A.
The charge related to the Consumer Healthcare business acquired from Pfizer Inc. accounted for
$320 million before tax of the IPR D charges and was included in the operating profit of the
Consumer segment. The IPR D charges for all of the following acquisitions were included in the
operating profit of the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment. Vascular Control Systems, Inc., a
privately held company focused on developing medical devices to treat fibroids and to control
bleeding in obstetric and gynecologic applications, accounted for $87 million before tax of the
IPR D charges. Ensure Medical, Inc., a privately held company that develops devices for
post-catheterization closure of the femoral artery, accounted for $66 million before tax of the
IPR D charges. ColBar LifeScience Ltd., a privately held company specializing in reconstructive
medicine and tissue engineering, accounted for $49 million before tax of the IPR D charges. Hand
Innovations LLC, a privately held manufacturer of fracture fixation products for the upper
extremities, accounted for $22 million before tax of the IPR D charges. Future Medical Systems
S.A., a privately held company that

primarily develops, manufactures and markets arthroscopic fluid management systems, accounted for
$15 million before tax of the IPR D charges.

Other (Income) Expense, Net:  Other (income) expense, net includes gains and losses related to the
sale and write-down of certain investments in equity securities held by Johnson   Johnson
Development Corporation, gains and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment,
currency gains and losses, minority interests, litigation settlements and liabilities and royalty
income. The favorable change of $1.5 billion in other (income) expense, net from 2008 to 2007 was
primarily due to an increase in income from net litigation settlements and awards of $0.5 billion,
a gain of $0.5 billion from the divestiture of the Professional Wound Care business of Ethicon,
Inc. in 2008 and the NATRECOR    intangible asset write-down of $0.7 billion in 2007.

In 2007, other (income) expense, net included a charge of $678 million before tax related to
the NATRECOR    intangible asset write-down. A gain of $622 million associated with the Guidant
acquisition agreement termination fee, less associated expenses, was included in 2006. In addition,
2006 also included expenses associated with the recording of additional product liability reserves
and the integration costs associated with the acquisition of the Consumer Healthcare business of
Pfizer Inc.

OPERATING PROFIT BY SEGMENT 

Operating profits by segment of business were as follows:

(1)   
      See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more details.  

(2)   
      Amounts not allocated to segments include interest (income) expense, minority
interest, and general corporate (income) expense.  

Consumer Segment:  In 2008, Consumer segment operating profit increased 17.4% from 2007. As a
percent to sales, 2008 operating profit increased to 16.7%. Cost synergies, lower integration costs
in 2008 related to the acquisition of the Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc., and other
cost containment initiatives contributed to the increased operating profit. In 2007, Consumer
segment operating profit increased 65.7% from 2006 due to the acquisition costs associated with the
Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc. in 2006. As a percent to sales, 2007 operating profit
increased to 15.7%. IPR D expenses of $320 million as well as expenses associated with

the Consumer
Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc. integration were recorded during 2006.

Pharmaceutical Segment:  In 2008, Pharmaceutical segment operating profit increased 16.3% from 2007.
As a percent to sales, 2008 operating profit increased to 31.0%. The primary driver of the improved
operating profit was due to the restructuring charges of $429 million and $678 million for the
NATRECOR    intangible asset write-down recorded in 2007. In 2007, Pharmaceutical segment operating
profit decreased 5.1% from 2006. As a percent to sales, 2007 operating profit decreased to 26.3%
resulting from $429 million of restructuring charges and $678 million for the NATRECOR    intangible
asset write-down in 2007.

Medical Devices and Diagnostics Segment:  In 2008, the operating profit in the Medical Devices and
Diagnostics segment increased
49.1% from 2007. As a percent to sales, 2008 operating profit increased to 31.2%. The improved
operating profit was the result of the $429 million gain from net litigation settlements, favorable
product mix,
manufacturing efficiencies and lower IPR D charges of $174 million in 2008 versus $807 million in
2007. Additionally, $301 million of restructuring charges were recorded in 2007. In 2007, the
operating profit in the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment decreased 20.9% from 2006. As a
percent to sales, 2007 operating profit decreased to 22.3%, resulting from $807 million of IPR D
charges and $301 million of restructuring charges in 2007, while 2006 included the gain associated
with the Guidant acquisition agreement termination fee, less associated expenses, of $622 million.

Interest (Income) Expense:  Interest income in 2008 decreased by $91 million due to lower rates of
interest earned despite higher average cash balances. The cash balance, including marketable
securities, was $12.8 billion at the end of 2008, and averaged $12.2 billion as compared to the
$6.6 billion average cash balance in 2007. The increase in the average cash balance was primarily
due to cash generated from operating activities.

Interest expense in 2008 increased by $139 million due to a higher debt balance. In the second
half of 2007 the Company converted some of its short-term debt to fixed long-term debt at higher
interest rates. The net debt balance at the end of 2008 was $11.9 billion as compared to $9.5
billion at the end of 2007. The higher debt balance in 2008 was primarily due to the purchase of
the Company s common stock under the ongoing Common Stock repurchase program announced on July 9,
2007 and to fund acquisitions.

Interest income in 2007 decreased by $377 million due to lower average cash balances. The
decline in the average cash balance was primarily due to the acquisition of the Consumer Healthcare
business of Pfizer Inc. on December 20, 2006.

Interest expense in 2007 increased by $233 million as compared to prior year due to a higher
average debt balance. The net debt balance at the end of 2007 was $9.5 billion as compared to $6.6
billion at the end of 2006. The higher debt balance in 2007 was due to the debt associated with the
acquisition of the Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc. and the Common Stock repurchase
program announced in 2007.

Interest income in 2006 increased by $342 million due primarily to higher rates of interest,
as well as a higher average cash balance, despite the $5.0 billion Common Stock repurchase program
and an increase in acquisition activity as compared to prior year.

Interest expense in 2006 increased slightly as compared to 2005 due to a higher average debt
balance, from $2.6 billion in 2005 to $3.1 billion in 2006. This was partially offset by a decrease
in interest rates.

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

39 

Provision for Taxes on Income:  The worldwide effective income tax rate was 23.5% in 2008, 20.4% in
2007 and 24.2% in 2006. The 2008 tax rate increased as compared to 2007 due to increases in taxable
income in higher tax jurisdictions relative to taxable income in lower jurisdictions. In addition,
the 2007 tax rate benefited from a one-time gain of $267 million related to a business
restructuring of certain international subsidiaries, as well as increases in taxable income in
lower tax jurisdictions relative to taxable income in higher tax jurisdictions and lower
international tax rates in certain countries as compared to the prior year.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

LIQUIDITY   CASH FLOWS 

Cash and cash equivalents were $10.8 billion at the end of 2008 as compared with $7.8 billion at
the end of 2007. The primary sources of cash that contributed to the $3.0 billion increase versus
prior year were $15.0 billion of cash generated from operating activities and $2.7 billion net
proceeds from long and short-term debt. The major uses of cash were capital spending of $3.1
billion, acquisitions of $1.2 billion, dividends to shareholders of $5.0 billion and the repurchase
of common stock, net of proceeds from the exercise of options, of $5.2 billion.

Cash flow from operations of $15.0 billion is the result of $12.9 billion of net earnings and
$3.5 billion of non-cash charges related to depreciation and amortization, stock based
compensation, and $0.2 billion of IPR D offset by increased working capital of $0.8 billion and a
net use related to changes in assets and liabilities net of effects from acquisitions of $0.8
billion.

In 2008, the Company continued to have access to liquidity through the commercial paper
market. For additional details on borrowings, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Company anticipates that operating cash flows, existing credit facilities and access to
the commercial paper markets will provide sufficient resources to fund operating needs in 2009.

FINANCING AND MARKET RISK 

The Company uses financial instruments to manage the impact of foreign exchange rate changes on
cash flows. Accordingly, the Company enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to protect the
value of certain foreign currency assets and liabilities and to hedge future foreign currency
products costs. Gains or losses on these contracts are offset by the gains or losses on the
underlying transactions. A 10% appreciation of the U.S. Dollar from the December 28, 2008 market
rates would increase the unrealized value of the Company s forward contracts by $226 million.
Conversely, a 10% depreciation of the U.S. Dollar from the December 28, 2008 market rates would
decrease the unrealized value of the Company s forward contracts by $276 million. In either
scenario, the gain or loss on the forward contract would be offset by the gain or loss on the
underlying transaction and, therefore, would have no impact on future earnings and cash flows.

The Company hedges the exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, and the effect on
certain assets and liabilities in foreign currency, by entering into currency swap contracts. A 1%
change in the spread between U.S. and foreign interest rates on the Company s interest rate
sensitive financial instruments would either increase or decrease the unrealized value of the
Company s swap contracts by approximately $97 million. In either scenario, at maturity, the gain or
loss on the swap contract would be offset by the gain or loss on the underlying transaction and
therefore would have no impact on future cash flows.

The Company does not enter into financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Further, the Company has a policy of only entering into contracts with parties that have at least
an  A  (or equivalent) credit rating. The counterparties to these contracts are major financial
institutions and there is no significant concentration of exposure with any one counterparty.
Management believes the risk of loss is remote.

The Company has access to substantial sources of funds at numerous banks worldwide. In
September 2008, the Company secured a new 364-day and 5-year Credit Facility. Total credit
available to the Company approximates $7.7 billion, of which $6.3 billion expires September 24,
2009, and $1.4 billion expires September 25, 2013. Interest charged on borrowings under the credit
line agreements is based on either bids provided by banks, the prime rate or London Interbank
Offered Rates (LIBOR), plus applicable margins. Commitment fees under the agreement are not
material.

Total borrowings at the end of 2008 and 2007 were $11.9 billion and $9.5 billion,
respectively. The increase in borrowings between 2008 and 2007 was a result of financing general
corporate purposes and the continuation of the Common Stock repurchase program announced in 2007.
In 2008, net cash (cash and
current marketable securities, net of debt) was $1.0 billion compared to net debt of $0.2
billion in 2007. Total debt represented 21.8% of total capital (shareholders  equity and total
debt) in 2008 and 18.0% of total capital in 2007. Shareholders  equity per share at the end of 2008
was $15.35 compared with $15.25 at year-end 2007, an increase of 0.7%.

Johnson   Johnson continues to be one of a few industrial companies with a Triple A credit
rating and to have access to credit at commercially favorable terms. A summary of borrowings can be
found in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS 

The Company has contractual obligations, primarily lease, debt and unfunded retirement plans, with
no other significant obligations. To satisfy these obligations, the Company will use cash from
operations. The following table summarizes the Company s contractual obligations and their
aggregate maturities as of December 28, 2008 (see Notes 4, 6 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further details):

(1)   
      Amounts do not include interest expense.  

For tax matters, see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

SHARE REPURCHASE AND DIVIDENDS 

On July 9, 2007, the Company announced that its Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase
program, authorizing the Company to buy back up to $10.0 billion of the Company s Common Stock. The
repurchase program has no time limit and may be suspended for periods or discontinued at any time.
Any shares acquired will be available for general corporate purposes. The Company funds the share
repurchase program through a combination of available cash and debt. As of December 28, 2008, the
Company repurchased an aggregate of 124.9 million shares of Johnson   Johnson common stock under
the current repurchase program at a cost of $8.1 billion. In addition, the Company has an annual
program to repurchase shares for use in employee stock and incentive plans.

The Company increased its dividend in 2008 for the 46th consecutive year. Cash dividends paid
were $1.795 per share in 2008, compared with dividends of $1.620 per share in 2007 and $1.455 per
share in 2006. The dividends were distributed as follows:

On January 5, 2009, the Board of Directors declared a regular cash dividend of $0.460 per share,
payable on March 10, 2009, to shareholders of record as of February 24, 2009. The Company expects
to continue the practice of paying regular cash dividends.

Other Information 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 

Management s discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition are based on
the Company s consolidated financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The preparation of these financial statements
requires that management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for
revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and other related disclosures. Actual results may or may
not differ from these estimates. The Company believes that the understanding of certain key
accounting policies and estimates are essential in achieving more insight into the Company s
operating results and financial condition. These key accounting policies include revenue
recognition, income taxes, legal and self-insurance contingencies, valuation of long-lived assets,
assumptions used to determine the amounts recorded for pensions and other employee benefit plans
and accounting for stock options.

Revenue Recognition:  The Company recognizes revenue from product
sales when goods are shipped or delivered, and title and risk of loss pass to the customer.
Provisions for certain rebates, sales incentives, trade promotions, coupons, product returns and
discounts to customers are accounted for as reductions in sales in the same period the related
sales are recorded.

Product discounts granted are based on the terms of arrangements with direct, indirect and
other market participants, as well as market conditions, including prices charged by competitors.
Rebates, the largest being the Medicaid rebate provision, are estimated based on contractual terms,
historical experience, trend analysis and projected market conditions in the various markets
served. The Company evaluates market conditions for products or groups of products primarily
through the analysis of wholesaler and other third-party sell-through and market research data, as
well as internally generated information.

Sales returns are generally estimated and recorded based on historical sales and returns
information. Products that exhibit unusual sales or return patterns due to dating, competition or
other marketing matters are specifically investigated and analyzed as part of the accounting for
sales return accruals.

Sales returns allowances represent a reserve for products that may be returned due to
expiration, destruction in the field, or in specific areas, product recall. The returns reserve is
based on historical return trends by product and by market as a percent to gross sales.

Promotional programs, such as product listing allowances and cooperative advertising
arrangements, are recorded in the year incurred. Continuing promotional programs include coupons
and volume-based sales incentive programs. The redemption cost of consumer coupons is based on
historical redemption
experience by product and value. Volume-based incentive programs are based on estimated sales
volumes for the incentive period and are recorded as products are sold. The Company also earns
service revenue for co-promotion of certain products and includes it in sales to customers.
Promotional arrangements are evaluated to determine the appropriate amounts to be deferred.

In addition, the Company enters into collaboration arrangements, which contain multiple
revenue generating activities. The revenue for these arrangements is recognized as each activity is
performed or delivered, based on the relative fair value. Upfront fees received as part of these
arrangements are deferred and recognized as revenue earned over the obligation period.

Reasonably likely changes to assumptions used to calculate the accruals for rebates, returns
and promotions are not anticipated to have a material effect on the financial statements. The
Company currently discloses the impact of changes to assumptions in the quarterly or annual filing
in which there is a material financial statement impact.

Below are tables which show the progression of accrued rebates, returns, promotions, reserve
for doubtful accounts and reserve for cash discounts by segment of business for the fiscal years
ended December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007.

CONSUMER SEGMENT 

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

41 

PHARMACEUTICAL SEGMENT 

MEDICAL DEVICES AND DIAGNOSTICS SEGMENT 

The Company also earns service revenue for co-promotion of certain products. For all years
presented, service revenues were less than 2% of total revenues and are included in sales to
customers.

Income Taxes:  Income taxes are recorded based on amounts refundable or payable for the
current year and include the results of any difference between GAAP accounting and tax reporting,
recorded as deferred tax assets or liabilities. The Company estimates deferred tax assets and
liabilities based on current tax regulations and rates. Changes in tax laws and rates may affect
recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities in the future. Management believes that changes in
these estimates would not have a material

effect on the Company s results of operations, cash flows
or financial position.

In 2007, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation 48 (FIN48),  Accounting for Uncertainty in
Income Taxes   an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109.  This interpretation prescribes a
recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and
measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The interpretation
also provides guidance on derecognition, classification and other matters. See Note 8 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding income taxes.

At December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007, the cumulative amounts of undistributed
international earnings were approximately $27.7 billion and $23.7 billion, respectively. The
Company intends to continue to reinvest its undistributed international earnings to expand its
international operations; therefore, no U.S. tax expense has been recorded with respect to the
undistributed portion not intended for repatriation.

Legal and Self Insurance Contingencies:  The Company records accruals for various contingencies
including legal proceedings and product liability cases as these arise in the normal course of
business. The accruals are based on management s judgment as to the probability of losses and,
where applicable, actuarially determined estimates. Additionally, the Company records insurance
receivable amounts from third-party insurers when recovery is probable. As appropriate, reserves
against these receivables are recorded for estimated amounts that may not be collected from
third-party insurers.

Long-Lived and Intangible Assets:  The Company assesses changes in economic conditions and makes
assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows in evaluating the value of the Company s
property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets. As these assumptions and estimates
may change over time, it may or may not be necessary for the Company to record impairment charges.

Employee Benefit Plans:  The Company sponsors various retirement and pension plans, including
defined benefit, defined contribution and termination indemnity plans, which cover most employees
worldwide. These plans are based on assumptions for the discount rate, expected return on plan
assets, expected salary increases and health care cost trend rates. See Note 13 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for further details on these rates and the effect a rate change would have on
the Company s results of operations.

Stock Options:  During the fiscal first quarter of 2006, the
Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123(R),  Share Based Payment. 
The Company has applied the modified retrospective transition method to implement SFAS No. 123(R).
Previously reported financial statements have been restated in accordance with the provisions of
SFAS No. 123(R). See Note 10 for further information regarding stock options.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS  
Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for recently adopted accounting
pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of December 28,
2008.

ECONOMIC AND MARKET FACTORS 

The Company is aware that its products are used in an environment where, for more than a decade,
policymakers, consumers and businesses have expressed concerns about the rising cost of health
care. In response to these concerns, the Company has a long-standing policy of pricing products
responsibly. For the period 1998-2008, in the United States, the weighted average compound annual
growth rate of the Company s net price increases for health care products (prescription and
over-the-counter drugs, hospital and professional products) was below the U.S. Consumer Price Index
(CPI).

Inflation rates continue to have an effect on worldwide economies and, consequently, on the
way companies operate. In the face of increasing costs, the Company strives to maintain its profit
margins through cost reduction programs, productivity improvements and periodic price increases.

The Company is exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. A 1% change in the value of
the U.S. dollar as compared to all foreign currencies in which the Company had sales, income or
expense in 2008 would have increased or decreased the translation of foreign sales by $300 million
and income by $50 million.

The Company faces various worldwide health care changes that may continue to result in pricing
pressures that include health care cost containment and government legislation relating to sales,
promotions and reimbursement.

Changes in the behavior and spending patterns of purchasers of health care products and
services, including delaying medical procedures, rationing prescription medications, reducing the
frequency of physician visits and foregoing health care insurance coverage, as a result of the
current global economic downturn will continue to impact the Company s businesses.

The Company also operates in an environment which has become increasingly hostile to
intellectual property rights. Generic drug firms have filed Abbreviated New Drug Applications
(ANDAs) seeking to market generic forms of most of the Company s key pharmaceutical products, prior
to expiration of the applicable patents covering those products. In the event the Company is not
successful in defending the patent claims challenged in ANDA filings, the generic firms will then
introduce generic versions of the product at issue, resulting in the potential for substantial
market share and revenue losses for that product. For further information see the discussion on
 Litigation Against Filers of Abbreviated New Drug Applications  in Note 18 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

The Company is involved in numerous product liability cases in the United States, many of which
concern alleged adverse reactions to drugs and medical devices. The damages claimed are
substantial, and while the Company is confident of the adequacy of the warnings and instructions
for use which accompany such products, it is not feasible to predict the ultimate outcome of
litigation. However, the Company believes that if any liability results from such cases, it will be
substantially covered by existing amounts accrued in the Company s balance sheet under its
self-insurance program and by third-party product liability insurance.

The Company is also involved in a number of patent, trademark and other lawsuits, as well as
investigations, incidental to its business. The ultimate legal and financial liability of the
Company in respect to all claims, lawsuits and proceedings referred to above cannot be estimated
with any certainty. However, in the Company s opinion, based on its examination of these matters,
its experience to date and discussions with counsel, the ultimate outcome of legal proceedings, net
of liabilities already accrued in the Company s balance sheet, is not expected to have a material
adverse effect on the Company s financial condition, although the resolution in any

reporting
period of one or more of these matters could have a significant impact on the Company s results of
operations and cash flows for that period.

See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding legal
proceedings.

COMMON STOCK MARKET PRICES 

The Company s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol JNJ. The
composite market price ranges for Johnson   Johnson common stock during 2008 and 2007 were:

Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results 

This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements do not relate
strictly to historical or current facts and anticipate results based on management s plans that are
subject to uncertainty. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of words such as
 plans,   expects,   will,   anticipates,   estimates  and other words of similar meaning in
conjunction with, among other things, discussions of future operations, financial performance, the
Company s strategy for growth, product development, regulatory approval, market position and
expenditures.

Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations of future events. The Company
cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be accurate, although the Company believes
that it has been reasonable in its expectations and assumptions. Investors should realize that if
underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or that unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, actual
results could vary materially from the Company s expectations and projections. Investors are
therefore cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. The Company does
not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future
events or developments.

Risks and uncertainties include general industry conditions and competition; economic
conditions, such as interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations; technological advances,
new products and patents attained by competitors; challenges inherent in new product development,
including obtaining regulatory approvals; challenges to patents; U.S. and foreign health care
reforms and governmental laws and regulations; trends toward health care cost containment;
increased scrutiny of the health care industry by government agencies; product efficacy or safety
concerns resulting in product recalls or regulatory action.

The Company s report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 28, 2008 includes, in Exhibit
99, a discussion of additional factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations.
The Company notes these factors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995.

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

43 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

45 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

See
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

47 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  
  PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION 

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Johnson   Johnson and subsidiaries
(the  Company ). Inter-company accounts and transactions are eliminated.

DESCRIPTION OF THE COMPANY AND BUSINESS SEGMENTS 

The Company has approximately 118,700 employees worldwide engaged in the research and development,
manufacture and sale of a broad range of products in the health care field. The Company conducts
business in virtually all countries of the world and its primary focus is on products related to
human health and well-being.

The Company is organized into three business segments: Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical
Devices and Diagnostics. The Consumer segment manufactures and markets a broad range of products
used in the baby care, skin care, oral care, wound care and women s health care fields, as well as
nutritional and over-the-counter pharmaceutical products. These products are marketed to the
general public and sold both to distributors and directly to independent and chain retail outlets
throughout the world. The Pharmaceutical segment includes products in the following therapeutic
areas: anti-infective, antipsychotic, cardiovascular, contraceptive, dermatology, gastrointestinal,
hematology, immunology, neurology, oncology, pain management, urology and virology. These products
are distributed directly to retailers, wholesalers and health care professionals for prescription
use. The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment includes a broad range of products used
principally in the professional fields by physicians, nurses, therapists, hospitals, diagnostic
laboratories and clinics. These products include Cordis  circulatory disease management products;
DePuy s orthopaedic joint reconstruction, spinal care and sports medicine products; Ethicon s
surgical care and women s health products; Ethicon Endo-Surgery s minimally invasive surgical
products; LifeScan s blood glucose monitoring and insulin delivery products; Ortho-Clinical
Diagnostics  professional diagnostic products and Vistakon s disposable contact lenses.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS  
 RECENTLY ADOPTED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 

In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements. 
This statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally
accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The
statement was effective in the fiscal first quarter of 2008 except for non-financial assets and
liabilities recognized or disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis, for which the effective
date is for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The Company adopted SFAS No. 157 in the
fiscal first quarter of 2008, the impact of which is discussed in Note 23.

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,  Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and
Financial Liabilities , which permits an entity to measure certain financial assets and financial
liabilities at fair value. SFAS No. 159 was effective for fiscal year 2008 and the Company adopted
it in the fiscal first quarter of 2008. The adoption of SFAS No. 159 did not have a material effect
on the Company s results of operations, cash flows or financial position.

EITF Issue 07-03:  Accounting for Nonrefundable Advance Payments for Goods or Services Received
for Use in Future Research and Development Activities.  This issue is effective for financial
statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007 and was adopted by the Company
in the fiscal first quarter of 2008. This issue requires nonrefundable advance payments for
research and development to be capitalized and recognized as an expense as related goods are
delivered or services are performed. The adoption of EITF 07-03 did not have a significant impact
on the Company s results of operations, cash flows or financial position.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS,  
 NOT ADOPTED AS OF DECEMBER 28, 2008 

In December 2007, FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R),  Business Combinations , and No. 160,  Noncontrolling
Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements . These statements aim to improve, simplify and
converge internationally the accounting for business combinations and the reporting of
noncontrolling interests in
consolidated financial statements. These statements are effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2008. SFAS No. 141(R) will have a significant impact on the manner in which the
Company accounts for future acquisitions beginning in the fiscal year 2009. Significant changes
include the capitalization of in-process research and development (IPR D), expensing of acquisition
related restructuring actions and transaction related costs and the recognition of contingent
purchase price consideration at fair value at the acquisition date. In addition, changes in
accounting for deferred tax asset valuation allowances and acquired income tax uncertainties after
the measurement period will be recognized in earnings rather than as an adjustment to the cost of
acquisition. This accounting treatment for taxes is applicable to acquisitions that occurred both
prior and subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 141(R). The Company believes that the adoption of
SFAS No. 141(R) and SFAS No. 160 will not have a material effect on its results of operations, cash
flows or financial position.

In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS Statement No. 161,
 Disclosures About Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,  an amendment of FASB Statement No.
133, to enhance the disclosure regarding the Company s derivative and hedging activities, to
improve the transparency of financial reporting. This statement is effective for fiscal years
beginning after November 15, 2008. The adoption of SFAS No. 161 will have no impact on the
Company s results of operations, cash flows or financial position.

EITF Issue 07-01:  Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements Related to the Development and
Commercialization of Intellectual Property . This issue is effective for financial statements issued
for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. This issue addresses the income statement
classification of payments made between parties in a collaborative arrangement. The adoption of
EITF 07-01 is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company s results of operations,
cash flows or financial position.

EITF Issue 08-07:  Accounting for Defensive Intangible Assets. 
This issue applies to acquired intangible assets in situations in which an entity does not intend
to actively use the asset, but intends to hold the asset to prevent others from obtaining access to
the asset, except for intangible assets that are used in research and development activities. This
issue is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. The adoption of EITF 08-07
is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company s results of operations, cash flows or
financial position.

CASH EQUIVALENTS 

The Company considers securities with maturities of three months or less, when purchased, to be
cash equivalents.

INVESTMENTS 

Short-term marketable securities are carried at cost, which approximates fair value. Investments
classified as available-for-sale are carried at estimated fair value with unrealized gains and
losses recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Long-term debt securities
that the Company has the ability and intent to hold until maturity are carried at amortized cost,
which also approximates fair value. Management determines the appropriate classification of its
investment in debt and equity securities at the time of purchase and re-evaluates such
determination at each balance sheet date. The Company periodically reviews its investments in
equity securities for impairment and adjusts these investments to their fair value when a decline
in market value is deemed to be other than temporary.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND DEPRECIATION 

Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. The Company utilizes the straight-line method of
depreciation over the estimated useful lives of the assets:

The Company capitalizes certain computer software and development costs, included in machinery and
equipment, when incurred in connection with developing or obtaining computer software for internal
use. Capitalized software costs are amortized over the estimated useful lives of the software,
which generally range from 3 to 5 years.

The Company reviews long-lived assets to assess recoverability using undiscounted cash flows.
When necessary, charges for impairments of long-lived assets are recorded for the amount by which
the present value of future cash flows is less than the carrying value of these assets.

REVENUE RECOGNITION 

The Company recognizes revenue from product sales when the goods are shipped or delivered and title
and risk of loss pass to the customer. Provisions for certain rebates, sales incentives, trade
promotions, coupons, product returns and discounts to customers are accounted for as reductions in
sales in the same period the related sales are recorded.

Product discounts granted are based on the terms of arrangements with direct, indirect and
other market participants, as well as market conditions, including prices charged by competitors.
Rebates, the largest being the Medicaid rebate provision, are estimated based on contractual terms,
historical experience, trend analysis and projected market conditions in the various markets
served. The Company evaluates market conditions for products or groups of products primarily
through the analysis of wholesaler and other third-party sell-through and market research data, as
well as internally generated information.

Sales returns are generally estimated and recorded based on historical sales and returns
information. Products that exhibit unusual sales or return patterns due to dating, competition or
other marketing matters are specifically investigated and analyzed as part of the accounting for
sales return accruals. Sales returns allowances represent a reserve for products that may be
returned due to expiration, destruction in the field, or in specific areas, product recall.

The returns reserve is based on historical return trends by product and by market as a percent to
gross sales.

Promotional programs, such as product listing allowances and cooperative advertising
arrangements, are recorded in the year incurred. Continuing promotional programs include coupons
and volume-based sales incentive programs. The redemption cost of consumer coupons is based on
historical redemption experience by product and value. Volume-based incentive programs are based on
the estimated sales volumes for the incentive period and are recorded as products are sold. The
Company also earns service revenue for co-promotion of certain products and includes it in sales to
customers. Promotional arrangements are evaluated to determine the appropriate amounts to be
deferred.

In addition, the Company enters into collaboration arrangements, which contain multiple
revenue generating activities. The revenue for these arrangements is recognized as each activity is
performed or delivered, based on the relative fair value. Upfront fees received as part of these
arrangements are deferred and recognized as revenue earned over the obligation period.

SHIPPING AND HANDLING 

Shipping and handling costs incurred were $1,017 million, $934 million and $693 million in 2008,
2007 and 2006, respectively, and are included in selling, marketing and administrative expense. The
amount of revenue received for shipping and handling is less than 0.5% of sales to customers for
all periods presented.

INVENTORIES 

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market determined by the first-in, first-out method.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL 

SFAS No. 142 requires that goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets be assessed annually for
impairment. The Company completed the annual impairment test for 2008 in the fiscal fourth quarter
and no impairment was determined. Future impairment tests will be performed annually in the fiscal
fourth quarter, or sooner if a triggering event occurs.

Intangible assets that have finite useful lives continue to be amortized over their useful
lives, and are reviewed for impairment when warranted by economic conditions. See Note 7 for
further details on Intangible Assets.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 

The Company follows the provisions of SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities,  as amended. SFAS No. 133 requires that all derivative instruments be recorded
on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded each
period in current earnings or other comprehensive income, depending on whether the derivative is
designated as part of a hedge transaction, and if so, the type of hedge transaction.

The Company uses forward exchange contracts to manage its exposure to the variability of cash
flows, primarily related to the foreign exchange rate changes of future intercompany product and
third-party purchases of raw materials denominated in foreign currency. The Company also uses
currency swaps to manage currency risk primarily related to borrowings. Both of these types of
derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges. Additionally, the Company uses forward exchange
contracts to offset its exposure to certain foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities.
These forward exchange contracts are not designated as hedges and therefore, changes in the fair
values of these derivatives are recognized currently in earnings, thereby offsetting the current
earnings effect of the related foreign currency assets and liabilities.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

49 

The designation as a cash flow hedge is made at the entrance date into the derivative
contract. At inception, all derivatives are expected to be highly effective. Changes in the fair
value of a derivative that is designated as a cash flow hedge and is highly effective are recorded
in accumulated other comprehensive income until the underlying transaction affects earnings, and
are then reclassified to earnings in the same account as the hedged transaction. The fair value of
a derivative instrument (i.e., forward foreign exchange contract, currency swap) is the
aggregation, by currency, of all future cash flows discounted to its present value at prevailing
market interest rates and subsequently converted to the U.S. Dollar at the current spot foreign
exchange rate.

On an ongoing basis, the Company assesses whether each derivative continues to be highly
effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows of hedged items. If, and when, a derivative is no
longer expected to be highly effective, hedge accounting is discontinued. Hedge ineffectiveness, if
any, is included in current period earnings, and was insignificant in 2008, 2007 and 2006.

The Company documents all relationships between hedged items and derivatives. The overall risk
management strategy includes reasons for undertaking hedge transactions and entering into
derivatives. The objectives of this strategy are: (1) minimize foreign currency exposure s impact
on the Company s financial performance; (2) protect the Company s cash flow from adverse movements
in foreign exchange rates; (3) ensure the appropriateness of financial instruments; and (4) manage
the enterprise risk associated with financial institutions.

PRODUCT LIABILITY 

Accruals for product liability claims are recorded, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable
that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated
based on existing information. The accruals are adjusted periodically as additional information
becomes available. As a result of cost and availability factors, effective November 1, 2005, the
Company ceased purchasing third-party product liability insurance. Based on the availability of
prior coverage, receivables for insurance recoveries related to product liability claims are
recorded on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a recovery will be realized.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 

Research and development expenses are expensed as incurred. Upfront and milestone payments made to
third-parties in connection with research and development collaborations are expensed as incurred
up to the point of regulatory approval. Payments made to third-parties subsequent to regulatory
approval are capitalized and amortized over the remaining useful life of the related product.
Amounts capitalized for such payments are included in other intangibles, net of accumulated
amortization.

ADVERTISING 

Costs associated with advertising are expensed in the year incurred and are included in the
selling, marketing and administrative expenses. Advertising expenses worldwide, which are comprised
of television, radio, print media and Internet advertising, were $2.9 billion in 2008, $2.7 billion
in 2007 and $1.9 billion in 2006.

INCOME TAXES 

The Company intends to continue to reinvest its undistributed international earnings to expand its
international operations; therefore, no U.S. tax expense has been recorded with respect to the
undistributed portion not intended for repatriation. At December 28,
2008 and December 30, 2007, the cumulative amount of undistributed international earnings were
approximately $27.7 billion and $23.7 billion, respectively.

Deferred income taxes are recognized for tax consequences of temporary differences by applying
enacted statutory tax rates, applicable to future years, to differences between the financial
reporting and the tax basis of existing assets and liabilities.

NET EARNINGS PER SHARE 

Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net earnings available to common shareholders by
the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share
reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities were exercised or converted into
common stock using the treasury stock method.

USE OF ESTIMATES 

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the amounts reported. Estimates are used when accounting for sales discounts, rebates, allowances
and incentives, product liabilities, income taxes, depreciation, amortization, employee benefits,
contingencies and intangible asset and liability valuations. For instance, in determining annual
pension and post-employment benefit costs, the Company estimates the rate of return on plan assets,
and the cost of future health care benefits. Actual results may or may not differ from those
estimates.

ANNUAL CLOSING DATE 

The Company follows the concept of a fiscal year, which ends on the Sunday nearest to the end of
the month of December. Normally each fiscal year consists of 52 weeks, but every five or six years,
as will be the case in 2009, the fiscal year consists of 53 weeks.

RECLASSIFICATION 

Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.

2. Inventories 

At the end of 2008 and 2007, inventories were comprised of:

3. Property, Plant and Equipment 

At the end of 2008 and 2007, property, plant and equipment at cost and accumulated depreciation
were:

The Company capitalizes interest expense as part of the cost of construction of facilities and
equipment. Interest expense capitalized in 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $147 million, $130 million and
$118 million, respectively.

Depreciation expense, including the amortization of capitalized interest in 2008, 2007 and
2006, was $2.0 billion, $1.9 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively.

Upon retirement or other disposal of property, plant and equipment, the costs and related
amounts of accumulated depreciation or amortization are eliminated from the asset and accumulated
depreciation accounts, respectively. The difference, if any, between the net asset value and the
proceeds are recorded in earnings.

4. Rental Expense and Lease Commitments 

Rentals of space, vehicles, manufacturing equipment and office and data processing equipment under
operating leases were approximately $309 million in 2008, $302 million in 2007 and $285 million in
2006.

The approximate minimum rental payments required under operating leases that have initial or
remaining non-cancelable lease terms in excess of one year at December 28, 2008 are:

Commitments under capital leases are not significant.

5. Employee Related Obligations 

At the end of 2008 and 2007, employee related obligations were:

Prepaid employee related obligations of $136 million and $481 million for 2008 and 2007,
respectively, are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheet.

6. Borrowings 

The components of long-term debt are as follows:

The Company has access to substantial sources of funds at numerous banks worldwide. In September
2008, the Company secured a new 364-day and 5-year Credit Facility. Total credit available to the
Company approximates $7.7 billion of which $6.3 billion expires September 24, 2009, and $1.4
billion expires September 25,
2013. Interest charged on borrowings under the credit line agreements is based on either bids
provided by banks, the prime rate or London Interbank Offered Rates (LIBOR), plus applicable
margins. Commitment fees under the agreements are not material.

The Company filed a shelf registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission that became
effective March 11, 2008 which enables the Company to issue an unlimited aggregate principal amount
in debt securities and warrants to purchase debt securities. The Company issued bonds in June 2008
for a total of $1.6 billion for general corporate purposes.

On July 28, 2000, ALZA Corporation, a subsidiary of the Company, completed a private offering
of the 3% Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated Debentures, which were issued at a price of $551.26
per $1,000 principal amount at maturity. Under the terms of the 3% Debentures, holders are entitled
to convert their debentures into approximately 15.0 million shares of Johnson   Johnson stock at a
price of $40.102 per
share. Approximately 11.4 million shares have been issued as of December 28, 2008, due to
voluntary conversions by note holders. At the option of the holder, the 3% Debentures may be
repurchased by the Company on July 28, 2013, at a purchase price equal to the issue price plus
accreted original issue discount to such purchase date. The Company, at its option, may also redeem
any or all of the 3% Debentures after July 28, 2003 at the issue price plus accreted original issue
discount.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

51 

Throughout 2008 the Company continued to have access to liquidity through the commercial paper
market. Short-term borrowings and the current portion of long-term debt amounted to approximately
$3.7 billion at the end of 2008, of which $3.1 billion was raised under the Commercial Paper
Program. The remainder represents principally local borrowing by international subsidiaries.

Aggregate maturities of long-term obligations commencing in 2008 are:

7. Intangible Assets and Goodwill 

At the end of 2008 and 2007, the gross and net amounts of
intangible assets and goodwill were:

Goodwill as of December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007, as
allocated by segment of business is as follows:

The weighted average amortization periods for patents and trademarks and other intangible assets
are 16 years and 28 years, respectively. The amortization expense of amortizable assets for the
fiscal years ended December 28, 2008, December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006 was $788 million,
$844 million and $594 million before tax, respectively. Certain patents and intangible assets were
written down to fair value during fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, with the resulting charge
included in amortization expense.

The estimated amortization expense for the five succeeding years approximates $814 million before
tax, per year. Substantially all of the amortization expense is included in cost of products sold.

8. Income Taxes 

The provision for taxes on income consists of:

A comparison of income tax expense at the U.S. statutory rate of
35% in 2008, 2007 and 2006, to the Company s effective tax rate
is as follows:

The Company has subsidiaries manufacturing in Ireland under an incentive tax rate. In addition, the
Company has subsidiaries operating in Puerto Rico under various tax incentive grants. The increase
in the 2008 tax rate was mainly attributed to increases in taxable income in higher tax
jurisdictions relative to taxable income in lower jurisdictions. The decrease in the 2007 tax rate
was mainly attributed to a business restructuring of certain international subsidiaries, resulting
in a one-time benefit of $267 million, which reduced the effective tax rate by 2%.

Temporary differences and carry forwards for 2008 and 2007 are as follows:

The difference between the net deferred tax on income per the balance sheet and the net deferred
tax above is included in taxes on income on the balance sheet. The 2008 deferred tax Miscellaneous
U.S. includes current year tax receivables.

The Company adopted FIN No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  effective January
1, 2007. The Company had $1.7 billion of gross unrecognized tax benefits, as of December 30, 2007.
The Company classifies liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits and related interest and penalties
as long-term liabilities. Interest expense and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are
classified as income tax expense. During the fiscal year ended December 28, 2008, the Company
recognized $106 million of interest expense with an after-tax impact of $69 million. For the year
ended December 30, 2007, the Company recognized $58 million of interest expense and $42 million of
interest income with an after-tax impact of $10 million expense. The total amount of accrued
interest was $227 million and $187 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively.

The following table summarizes the activity related to unrecognized tax benefits:

All of the unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $2.0 billion at December 28, 2008, if
recognized, would affect the Company s annual effective tax rate. The Company conducts business and
files tax returns in numerous countries and currently has tax audits in progress with a number of
tax authorities. The U.S.
Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed its audit for the tax years through 2002. In other
major jurisdictions where the Company conducts business, the years remain open generally back to
the year 2002 with some jurisdictions remaining open as far back as 1995. The Company does not
expect that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits will significantly change over the next
twelve months. The Company does not expect a significant payment within the next twelve months, and
is not able to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of any future tax payments
relating to uncertain tax positions.

9. International Currency Translation 

For translation of its subsidiaries operating in non-U.S. Dollar currencies, the Company has
determined that the local currencies of its international subsidiaries are the functional
currencies except those in highly inflationary economies, which are defined as those which have had
compound cumulative rates of inflation of 100% or more during the past three years, or where a
substantial portion of its cash flows are not in the local currency.

In consolidating international subsidiaries, balance sheet currency effects are recorded as a
component of accumulated other comprehensive income. This equity account includes the results of
translating all balance sheet assets and liabilities at current exchange rates, except for those
located in highly inflationary economies. The translation of balance sheet accounts for highly
inflationary economies are reflected in the operating results.

An analysis of the changes during 2008, 2007 and 2006 for foreign currency translation
adjustments is included in Note 12.

Net currency transaction and translation gains and losses included in other (income) expense
were losses of $31 million, $23 million and $18 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

10. Common Stock, Stock Option Plans and  
Stock Compensation Agreements 

STOCK OPTIONS 

At December 28, 2008, the Company had 14 stock-based compensation plans. The shares outstanding are
for contracts under the Company s 1995 and 2000 Stock Option Plans, the 2005 Long-Term Incentive
Plan, the 1997 Non-Employee Director s Plan and the Centocor, Innovasive Devices, ALZA, Inverness,
and Scios Stock Option Plans. During 2008, no options or restricted shares were granted under any
of these plans except under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan.

The compensation cost recorded under SFAS No. 123(R) that has been charged against income for
these plans was $627 million for 2008, $698 million for 2007 and $659 million for 2006. The total
income tax benefit recognized in the income statement for share-based compensation costs was $210
million for 2008, $238 million for 2007 and $228 million for 2006. Share-based compensation costs
capitalized as part of inventory were insignificant in all periods.

Stock options expire 10 years from the date of grant and vest over service periods that range
from six months to five years. All options are granted at the average of the high and low prices of
the Company s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the date of grant. Under the 2005
Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Company may issue up to 260 million shares of common stock. Shares
available for future grants under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan were 167.6 million at the end
of 2008.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

53 

The Company settles employee stock option exercises with treasury shares. Treasury shares are
replenished throughout the year for the number of shares used to settle employee stock option
exercises.

The fair value of each option award was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option valuation model that uses the assumptions noted in the following table. Expected volatility
represents a blended rate of 4-year daily historical average volatility rate, and a 5-week average
implied volatility rate based on at-the-money traded Johnson   Johnson options with a life of 2
years. Historical data is used to determine the expected life of the option. The risk-free rate was
based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.

The average fair value of options granted was $7.66, $11.67 and
$12.22 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The fair value was estimated based on the weighted
average assumptions of:

A summary of option activity under the Plan as of December 28, 2008, December 30, 2007 and December
31, 2006 and changes during the years ending on those dates is presented below:

The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $506 million, $625 million and $542 million in
2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The total unrecognized compensation cost was $632 million as of
December 28, 2008, $652 million as of December 30, 2007 and $649 million as of December 31, 2006.
The weighted average period for this cost to be recognized was 1.06 years, 1.01 years and
0.99 years for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

The following table summarizes stock options outstanding and exercisable at December 28, 2008:

(1)   
      Average contractual life remaining in years.  

Stock options exercisable at December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006 were 137,310 at an average
price of $52.33 and an average life of 5.6 years and 131,077 at an average price of $50.23 and an
average life of 5.9 years, respectively.

RESTRICTED SHARE UNITS 

The Company grants restricted share units with a vesting period of three years. The Company settles
employee stock issuance with treasury shares. Treasury shares are replenished throughout the year
for the number of shares used for employee stock issuances.

A summary of share activity under the Plan as of December 28, 2008:

The average fair value of the restricted share units granted was $56.70, $60.86 and $54.17 in 2008,
2007 and 2006, respectively, using the fair market value at the date of grant. The fair value of
restricted share units was discounted for dividends, which are not paid on the restricted share
units during the vesting period. The fair value of restricted share units settled was $2.5 million,
$1.8 million and $1.7 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

11. Segments of Business (1)  and Geographic Areas 

(1)   
      See Note 1 for a description of the segments in which the Company operates.  

(2)   
      Export sales are not significant. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, the Company did not have a
customer that represented 10% of total revenues.  

(3)   
      Amounts not allocated to segments
include interest (income) expense, minority interest and general corporate (income) expense.  

(4)   
      General corporate includes cash and marketable securities.  

(5)   
      Includes $7 million and $174 million of In-Process Research and Development (IPR D)
for the Consumer and Medical Devices and Diagnostics segments, respectively. Includes $379 million
of fourth quarter net litigation gain, comprised of a $50 million expense in the Consumer segment
and a gain of $429 million in the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment. The Medical Devices and
Diagnostics segment also includes $536 million gain on the divestiture of the Professional Wound
Care business of Ethicon, Inc.  

(6)   
      Includes $745 million of restructuring expense, comprised of $15 million, $429
million, and $301 million for the Consumer, Pharmaceutical, and Medical Devices and Diagnostics
segments, respectively. The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment includes $807 million of IPR D.
The Pharmaceutical segment also includes $678 million for the write-down of the NATRECOR   
intangible asset.  

(7)   
      Includes $320 million and $239 million of IPR D for the Consumer and Medical Devices
and Diagnostics segments, respectively. The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment also includes
the Guidant acquisition agreement termination fee, less associated expenses, of $622 million.  

(8)   
      Long-lived assets include property, plant and equipment, net for 2008, 2007 and 2006
of $14,365, $14,185 and $13,044, respectively, and intangible assets and goodwill, net for 2008,
2007 and 2006 of $27,695, $28,763 and $28,688, respectively.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

55 

12. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 

Components of other comprehensive income/(loss) consist of the following:

Total comprehensive income for 2008 includes reclassification adjustment gains of $41 million
realized from the sale of equity securities and the associated tax expense of $14 million.

Total comprehensive income for 2007 includes reclassification adjustment gains of $7 million
realized from the sale of equity securities and the associated tax expense of $2 million.

Total other comprehensive income for 2006 includes reclassification adjustment gains of $13
million realized from the sale of equity securities and the associated tax expense of $4 million.

The tax effect on the unrealized gains/(losses) on the equity securities was an expense of $14
million, $46 million and $33 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The tax effect related
to employee benefit plans was $1,090 million, $349 million and $891 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. The tax effect on the gains/(losses) on derivatives and hedges are losses of $70
million in 2008, gains of $24 million in 2007, and losses of $4 million in 2006. See Note 15 for
additional information relating to derivatives and
hedging.

The currency translation adjustments are not currently adjusted for income taxes as they
relate to permanent investments in international subsidiaries.

13. Pensions and Other Benefit Plans 

The Company sponsors various retirement and pension plans, including defined benefit, defined
contribution and termination indemnity plans, which cover most employees worldwide. The Company
also provides postretirement benefits, primarily health care, to all U.S. retired employees and
their dependents.

Many international employees are covered by government-sponsored programs and the cost to the
Company is not significant.

Retirement plan benefits are primarily based on the employee s compensation during the last
three to five years before retirement and the number of years of service. International
subsidiaries have plans under which funds are deposited with trustees, annuities are purchased
under group contracts, or reserves are provided.

The Company does not fund retiree health care benefits in advance and has the right to modify
these plans in the future.

The Company uses the date of its consolidated financial statements (December 28, 2008 and
December 30, 2007, respectively) as the measurement date for all U.S. and international retirement
and other benefit plans.

In September 2006, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 158,  Employers 
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  was issued and amends further
the disclosure requirements for pensions and other postretirement benefits. This Statement was an
amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R). The incremental effect of applying FASB
No. 158 was a $1.7 billion reduction in Shareholder Equity, net of deferred taxes.

Net periodic benefit costs for the Company s defined benefit retirement plans and other
benefit plans for 2008, 2007 and 2006 include the following components:

The net periodic benefit cost attributable to U.S. retirement plans was $220 million, $379 million
and $423 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Amounts expected to be recognized in net periodic benefit cost in the coming year for the
Company s defined benefit retirement plans and other postretirement plans:

(Dollars in Millions)

Amortization of net transition obligation

$ 
     1 

Amortization of net actuarial losses

236 

Amortization of prior service cost

5 

Unrecognized gains and losses for the U.S. pension plans are amortized over the average remaining
future service for each plan. For plans with no active employees, they are amortized over the
average

life expectancy. The amortization of gains and losses for the other U.S. benefit plans is
determined by using a 10% corridor of the greater of the market value of assets or the projected
benefit obligation. Total unamortized gains and losses in excess of the corridor are amortized over
the average remaining future service.

Prior service costs/benefits for the U.S. pension plans are amortized over the remaining
future service of plan participants at the time of the plan amendment. Prior service cost/benefit
for the other U.S. benefit plans is amortized over the average remaining service to full
eligibility age of plan participants at the time of the plan amendment.

The weighted-average assumptions in the following table represent the rates used to develop
the actuarial present value of projected benefit obligation for the year listed and also the net
periodic benefit cost for the following year.

The Company s discount rates are determined by considering current yield curves representing high
quality,
long-term fixed income instruments. The resulting discount rates are consistent with the duration
of plan liabilities.

The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption is determined using a building
block approach, considering historical averages and real returns of each asset class. In certain
countries, where historical returns are not meaningful, consideration is given to local market
expectations of long-term returns.

The following table displays the assumed health care cost trend rates, for all individuals:

A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend
rates would have the following effect:

One-Percentage- 

One-Percentage- 

(Dollars in Millions)

Point Increase 

Point Decrease 

Health Care Plans 

Total interest and service cost

$  34 

$  (28 
     ) 

Postretirement benefit obligation

320 

(258 
     ) 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

57 

The following table sets forth information related to the benefit obligation and the fair value of
plan assets at year-end 2008 and 2007 for the Company s defined benefit retirement plans and other
postretirement plans:

*  
      The Company does not fund certain plans, as funding is not required. $1.2 billion of the
projected benefit obligation, $1.2 billion of the underfunded status, and $0.9 billion of the
accumulated benefit obligation for the fiscal years 2008 and 2007 relates to these unfunded
pension plans.  

Plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets consist of the following:

Strategic asset allocations are determined by country, based on the nature of the liabilities and
considering the demographic composition of the plan participants (average age, years of service and
active versus retiree status). The Company s plans are considered

non-mature plans and the
long-term strategic asset allocations are consistent with these types of plans. Emphasis is placed
on diversifying equities on a broad basis combined with currency matching of the fixed income
assets.

The following table displays the projected future benefit payments from the Company s retirement
and other benefit plans:

In 2008, the Company contributed $399 million and $579 million to its U.S. and international
pension plans, respectively. In addition, the Company funded $450 million to its U.S. plans in the
first two months of 2009.

In 2006, Congress passed the Pension Protection Act of 2006. The Act amended the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) for plan years beginning after 2007 and established new
minimum funding standards for U.S. employer defined benefit plans. The Company plans to continue to
fund its U.S. defined benefit plans to comply with the Act.

International plans are funded in accordance with local regulations. Additional discretionary
contributions are made when deemed appropriate to meet the long-term obligations of the plans. For
certain plans, funding is not a common practice, as funding provides no economic benefit.
Consequently the Company has several pension plans that are not funded.

The following table displays the projected future minimum contributions to the Company s U.S.
and international unfunded retirement plans. These amounts do not include any discretionary
contributions that the Company may elect to make in the future.

The Company s retirement plan asset allocation at the end of 2008 and 2007 and target allocations
for 2009 are as follows:

The Company s other benefit plans are unfunded except for U.S. life insurance contract assets of
$17 million and $29 million at December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007, respectively.

The fair value of Johnson   Johnson common stock directly held in plan assets was $416 million
(5.4% of total plan assets) at December 28, 2008 and $462 million (4.4% of total plan assets) at
December 30, 2007.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

59      

14. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities 

As of December 28, 2008, current marketable securities consist of $1,663 million, $342 million and
$36 million of government securities and obligations, corporate debt securities and time deposits,
respectively.

As of December 30, 2007, current marketable securities consist of $251 million and $1,294
million of government securities and obligations and corporate debt, respectively.

CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK 

The Company invests its excess cash in both deposits with major banks throughout the world and
other high-quality money market instruments. The Company has a policy of making investments only
with commercial institutions that have at least an A (or equivalent) credit rating.

15. Financial Instruments 

All derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. See Note 23 for
additional details.

As of December 28, 2008, the balance of deferred net gains on derivatives included in
accumulated other comprehensive income was $121 million after-tax. For additional information, see
Note 12. The Company expects that substantially all of this amount will be reclassified into
earnings over the next 12 months as a result of transactions that are expected to occur over that
period. The maximum length of time over which the Company is hedging transaction exposure is 18
months. The amount ultimately realized in earnings will differ as foreign exchange rates change.
Realized gains and losses are ultimately determined by actual exchange rates at maturity of the
derivative. Derivative gains/(losses), initially reported as a component of other comprehensive
income, are reclassified to earnings in the period when the forecasted transactions affect
earnings.

For the fiscal years ended December 28, 2008, December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006, the net
impact of hedge ineffectiveness, transactions not qualifying for hedge accounting and
discontinuance of hedges, to the Company s financial statements, was insignificant.

Refer to Note 12 for disclosures of movements in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income.

16. Savings Plan 

The Company has voluntary 401 (k) savings plans designed to enhance the existing retirement
programs covering eligible employees. The Company matches a percentage of each employee s
contributions
consistent with the provisions of the plan for which

he/she is eligible. Total Company matching
contributions to the plans were $166 million in 2008, $169 million in 2007 and $158 million in
2006.

17. Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures 

Certain businesses were acquired for $1,214 million in cash and $114 million of liabilities assumed
during 2008. These acquisitions were accounted for by the purchase method and, accordingly, results
of operations have been included in the financial statements from their respective dates of
acquisition.

The 2008 acquisitions included: Amic AB, a privately held Swedish developer of in vitro
diagnostic technologies for use in point-of-care and near-patient settings; Beijing Dabao Cosmetics
Co., Ltd., a company that sells personal care brands in China; SurgRx, Inc., a privately held
developer of the advanced bipolar tissue sealing system used in the ENSEAL    family of devices;
HealthMedia, Inc., a privately held company that creates web-based behavior change interventions;
LGE Performance Systems, Inc., a privately held company known as Human Performance Institute ,
which develops science-based training programs to improve employee engagement and productivity and
Omrix Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., a fully integrated biopharmaceutical company that develops and
markets biosurgical and immunotherapy products.

The excess of purchase price over the estimated fair value of tangible assets acquired
amounted to $891 million and has been assigned to identifiable intangible assets, with any residual
recorded to goodwill. Approximately $181 million has been identified as the value of IPR D
associated with the acquisitions of Omrix Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., Amic AB, SurgRx, Inc. and
HealthMedia, Inc.

The IPR D charge related to the acquisition of Omrix Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. was $127 million
and is associated with stand-alone and combination biosurgical technologies used to achieve
hemostasis. The value of the IPR D was calculated using cash flow projections discounted for the
risk inherent in such projects. Probability of success factors ranging from 60   90% were used to
reflect inherent clinical and regulatory risk. The discount rate applied was 14%. As of the end of
the 2008 fiscal year, 97.8% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock of Omrix Biopharmaceuticals,
Inc. had been tendered by stockholders. Excluding shares that were tendered subject to guaranteed
delivery procedures, 90.2% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock had been tendered. On December
30, 2008 the Company completed the acquisition of Omrix Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.

The IPR D charge related to the acquisition of Amic AB was $40 million and is associated with
point-of-care device and 4CAST Chip technologies. The value of the IPR D was calculated using cash
flow projections discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. The discount rate applied was
20%.

The IPR D charge related to the acquisition of SurgRx, Inc. was $7 million and is associated
with vessel cutting and sealing surgical devices. The value of the IPR D was calculated using cash
flow projections discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. Probability of success factors
ranging from 90   95% were used to reflect inherent clinical and regulatory risk. The discount
rate applied was 18%.

The IPR D charge related to the acquisition of HealthMedia, Inc. was $7 million and is
associated primarily with process enhancements to software technology. The value of the IPR D was
calculated using cash flow projections discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. A
probability of success factor of 90% was used to reflect inherent risk. The discount rate applied
was 14%.

Certain businesses were acquired for $1,388 million in cash and $232 million of liabilities
assumed during 2007. These acquisitions were accounted for by the purchase method and, accordingly,
results of operations have been included in the financial statements from their respective dates of
acquisition.

The 2007 acquisitions included: Conor Medsystems, Inc., a cardiovascular device company, with
new drug delivery technology; Robert Reid, Inc., a Japanese orthopedic product distributor; and
Maya s Mom, Inc., a social media company.

The excess of purchase price over the estimated fair value of tangible assets acquired
amounted to $636 million and has been assigned to identifiable intangible assets, with any residual
recorded to goodwill. Approximately $807 million has been identified as the value of IPR D
associated with the acquisition of Conor Medsystems, Inc.

The
IPR D charge related to the acquisition of Conor Medsystems, Inc. was $807 million and is associated with research related to the discovery and
application of the stent technology. The value of the IPR D was calculated using cash flow
projections discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. The discount rate applied was 19%.

Certain businesses were acquired for $18.0 billion in cash and $1.3 billion of liabilities
assumed during 2006. These acquisitions were accounted for by the purchase method and, accordingly,
results of operations have been included in the financial statements from their respective dates of
acquisition except as noted below.

On December 20, 2006, the Company completed the acquisition of the Consumer Healthcare
business of Pfizer Inc. for a purchase price of $16.6 billion in cash. The operating results of the
Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc. were reported in the Company s financial statements
beginning in 2007, as 2006 results subsequent to the acquisition date were not significant.

In order to obtain regulatory approval of the transaction, the Company agreed to divest
certain overlapping businesses. The Company completed the divestiture of the ZANTAC    product on
December 20, 2006 and the divestitures of KAOPECTATE   , UNISOM   , CORTIZONE   , BALMEX    and ACT   
products on January 2, 2007.

The following table provides pro forma results of operations for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2006, as if the Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc. had been acquired as of
the beginning of the period presented. The pro forma results include the effect of divestitures and
certain purchase accounting adjustments such as the estimated changes in depreciation and
amortization expense on the acquired tangible and intangible assets. However, pro forma results do
not include any anticipated cost savings or other effects of the planned integration of the
Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc. Accordingly, such amounts are not necessarily
indicative of the results if the acquisition had occurred on the dates indicated or which may occur
in the future.

The IPR D charge related to the acquisition of the Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc. was
$320 million on a pre-tax basis and $217 million on an after-tax basis and is primarily associated
with rights obtained to the switch of ZYRTEC    from U.S. prescription to over-the-counter status.
The switch was
approved by the FDA effective November 2007. The value of the IPR D was calculated using cash flow
projections discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. A probability of success factor of
95% was used to reflect inherent regulatory risk as of the acquisition date and the discount rate
applied was 11%.

The Company completed the analysis of integration plans, pursuant to which the Company is
incurring costs primarily related to the elimination of certain duplicate selling, general and
administrative functions between the two companies in areas such as global business services,
corporate staff and go-to-market support, as well as excess manufacturing capacity.

In addition to the acquisition of the Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc., 2006
acquisitions included: Animas Corporation, a leading maker of insulin infusion pumps and related
products; Hand Innovations LLC, a privately held manufacturer of fracture fixation products for the
upper extremities; Future Medical Systems S.A., a privately held company that primarily develops,
manufactures and markets arthroscopic fluid management systems; Vascular Control Systems, Inc., a
privately held company focused on developing medical devices to treat fibroids and to control
bleeding in obstetric and gynecologic applications; Groupe Vend me S.A., a privately held French
marketer of adult and baby skin care products; ColBar LifeScience Ltd., a privately held company
specializing in reconstructive medicine and tissue engineering and Ensure Medical, Inc., a
privately held company that develops devices for post-catheterization closure of the femoral
artery.

Excluding the acquisition of the Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc., the excess of
purchase price over the estimated fair value of tangible assets acquired in 2006 amounted to $1,209
million and has been assigned to identifiable intangible assets, with any residual recorded to
goodwill. Approximately $239 million has been identified as the value of IPR D primarily associated
with the acquisitions of Hand Innovations LLC, Future Medical Systems S.A., Vascular Control
Systems, Inc., ColBar LifeScience Ltd. and Ensure Medical, Inc.

The IPR D charge related to the acquisition of Hand Innovations LLC was $22 million and is
associated with fracture repair technologies. The value of the IPR D was calculated using cash flow
projections discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. Probability of success factors
ranging from 38   95% were used to reflect inherent clinical and regulatory risk and the discount
rate applied was 17%.

The IPR D charge related to the acquisition of Future Medical Systems S.A. was $15 million and
is associated with the NEXTRA and DUO PUMP product technologies. The value of the IPR D was
calculated using cash flow projections discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. A
probability of success factor of 90% for both technologies was used to reflect inherent clinical
and regulatory risk and the discount rate applied was 22%.

The IPR D charge related to the acquisition of Vascular Control Systems, Inc. was $87 million
and is associated with the FLOSTAT system technology. The value of the IPR D was calculated using
cash flow projections discounted for the risk inherent in such projects.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

61 

A probability of success factor of 75% was used to reflect inherent clinical and regulatory risk
and the discount rate applied was 21%.

The IPR D charge related to the acquisition of ColBar LifeScience Ltd. was $49 million and is
associated with the EVOLENCE    family of products, which are biodegradable dermal fillers. The value
of the IPR D was calculated using cash flow projections discounted for the risk inherent in such
projects. Probability of success factors ranging from 70   80% were used to reflect inherent
clinical and regulatory risk and the discount rate applied was 21%.

The IPR D charge related to the acquisition of Ensure Medical, Inc. was $66 million and is
associated with the femoral artery closure device. The value of the IPR D was calculated using cash
flow projections discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. A probability of success factor
of 75% was used to reflect inherent clinical and regulatory risk and the discount rate applied was
22%.

With the exception of the Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc., supplemental pro forma
information for 2008, 2007 and 2006 per SFAS No. 141,
 Business Combinations,  and SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,  is not provided, as the impact of the aforementioned
acquisitions did not have a material effect on the Company s results of operations, cash flows or
financial position.

With the exception of the divestiture of the Professional Wound Care business of Ethicon,
Inc., which resulted in a gain of $536 million before tax, and is recorded in other (income)
expense, net, in 2008, divestitures in 2008, 2007 and 2006 did not have a material effect on the
Company s results of operations, cash flows or financial position.

18. Legal Proceedings 

PRODUCT LIABILITY 

The Company s subsidiaries are involved in numerous product liability cases in the United States,
many of which concern alleged adverse reactions to drugs and medical devices. The damages claimed
are substantial, and while the Company is confident of the adequacy of the warnings and
instructions for use that accompany such products, it is not feasible to predict the ultimate
outcome of litigation. However, the Company believes that if any product liability results from
such cases, it will be substantially covered by existing amounts accrued in the Company s balance
sheet and, where available, by third-party product liability insurance.

Multiple products of Johnson   Johnson subsidiaries are subject to numerous product liability
claims and lawsuits, including ORTHO EVRA   , RISPERDAL   , DURAGESIC   , CYPHER    Stent and the CHARIT  
Artificial Disc. There are approximately 900 claimants who have pending lawsuits or claims
regarding injuries allegedly due to ORTHO EVRA   , 507 with respect to RISPERDAL   , 267 with respect
to CHARIT  , 85 with respect to CYPHER    and 65 with respect to DURAGESIC   . These claimants seek
substantial compensatory and, where available, punitive damages.

With respect to RISPERDAL   , the Attorneys General of eight states and the Office of General
Counsel of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania have filed actions seeking reimbursement of Medicaid or
other public funds for RISPERDAL    prescriptions written for off-label use, compensation for
treating their citizens for alleged adverse reactions to RISPERDAL   , civil fines or penalties,
punitive damages, or other relief. The Attorney General of Texas has joined a qui tam action in
that state seeking similar relief. Certain of these actions also seek injunctive relief relating to
the promotion of RISPERDAL   . The Attorneys General of more than 40 other states have indicated a
potential interest in pursuing similar litigation against the Company s Janssen subsidiary (now
Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc.) (OMJPI), and have obtained a tolling agreement staying
the running of the statute of limitations while they inquire into the issues. In addition, there
are six cases filed by union health plans seeking damages for

alleged overpayments for RISPERDAL   ,
several of which seek certification as class actions. In the case brought by the Attorney General
of West Virginia, based on claims for alleged consumer fraud as to DURAGESIC    as well as
RISPERDAL   , Janssen was found liable on motion, and damages are likely to be assessed at less than
$20 million. Janssen intends to seek to appeal.

Numerous claims and lawsuits in the United States relating to the drug PROPULSID   , withdrawn
from general sale by the Company s Janssen subsidiary in 2000, have been resolved or are currently
enrolled in settlement programs with an aggregate cap below $100 million. Litigation concerning
PROPULSID    is pending in Canada, where a class action of persons alleging adverse reactions to the
drug has been certified.

AFFIRMATIVE STENT PATENT LITIGATION 

In patent infringement actions tried in Delaware Federal District Court in late 2000, Cordis
Corporation (Cordis), a subsidiary of Johnson   Johnson, obtained verdicts of infringement and
patent validity, and damage awards against Boston Scientific Corporation (Boston Scientific) and
Medtronic AVE, Inc. (Medtronic) based on a number of Cordis vascular stent patents. In December
2000, the jury in the damage action against Boston Scientific returned a verdict of $324 million
and the jury in the Medtronic action returned a verdict of $271 million. The Court of Appeals for
the Federal Circuit has upheld liability in these cases, and on September 30, 2008, the district
court entered judgments, including interest, in the amounts of $702 million and $521 million
against Boston Scientific and Medtronic, respectively. Medtronic paid $472 million in October 2008,
representing the judgment, net of amounts exchanged in settlement of a number of other litigations
between the companies. The net settlement of $472 million was recorded as a credit to other
(income) expense, net in the 2008 consolidated statement of earnings. The $702 million judgment
against Boston Scientific is not reflected in the 2008 financial statements as Boston Scientific
has appealed the judgments, and no amounts have been received.

Cordis also has two arbitrations against Medtronic seeking royalties for the sale of stent
products introduced by Medtronic subsequent to December 2000 pursuant to a 1997 cross-license
agreement between Cordis and Medtronic. The hearing on the first of these arbitrations will take
place in March 2009.

In January 2003, Cordis filed a patent infringement action against Boston Scientific in
Delaware Federal District Court accusing its Express2 , Taxus    and Liberte    stents of infringing
the Palmaz patent that expired in November 2005. The Liberte    stent was also accused of infringing
Cordis  Gray patent that expires in 2016. In June 2005, a jury found that the Express2 , Taxus    and Liberte    stents infringed the
Palmaz patent and that the Liberte    stent also infringed the Gray patent. Boston Scientific has
appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.

Cordis has filed several lawsuits in New Jersey Federal District Court against Guidant
Corporation (Guidant), Abbott Laboratories, Inc. (Abbott), Boston Scientific and Medtronic alleging
that the Xience V  (Abbott), Promus  (Boston Scientific) and Endeavor    (Medtronic) drug eluting
stents infringe several patents owned by or licensed to Cordis. In October 2008, Cordis filed suit
against Boston Scientific in Delaware Federal Court accusing the Taxus Liberte    stent of infringing
the Gray patent.

PATENT LITIGATION AGAINST VARIOUS JOHNSON   JOHNSON SUBSIDIARIES 

The products of various Johnson   Johnson subsidiaries are the subject of various patent lawsuits,
the outcomes of which could potentially adversely affect the ability of those subsidiaries to

sell those products, or require the payment of past damages and future royalties.

In July 2005, a jury in Federal District Court in Delaware found that the Cordis CYPHER    Stent
infringed Boston Scientific s Ding  536 patent and that the Cordis CYPHER    and BX VELOCITY    Stents
also infringed Boston Scientific s Jang  021 patent. The jury also found both of those patents
valid. Boston Scientific seeks substantial damages and an injunction in those actions. Cordis
appealed. On January 15, 2009, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit held the Ding patent
invalid. It is expected that Boston Scientific will move for reconsideration. The appeal of the
Jang patent case is still pending and if the judgment is upheld it will be remanded for a trial on
the issues of damages and injunctive relief.

In Germany, Boston Scientific has several actions based on its Ding patents pending against
the Cordis CYPHER    Stent. Cordis was successful in these actions at the trial level, but Boston
Scientific has appealed. Boston Scientific has brought actions in Belgium, the Netherlands,
Germany, France and Italy under its Kastenhofer patent, which purports to cover two-layer catheters
such as those used to deliver the CYPHER    Stent, to enjoin the manufacture and sale of allegedly
infringing catheters in those countries, and to recover damages. A decision by the lower court in
the Netherlands in Boston Scientific s favor was reversed on appeal in April 2007. Boston
Scientific has filed an

appeal to the Dutch Supreme Court. In October 2007, Boston Scientific
prevailed in the nullity action challenging the validity of the Kastenhofer patent filed by Cordis
in Germany. Cordis has appealed. No substantive hearings have been scheduled in the French or
Italian actions.

Trial in Boston Scientific s U.S. case based on the Kastenhofer patent in Federal District
Court in California concluded in October 2007 with a jury finding that the patent was invalid. The
jury also found for Cordis on its counterclaim that sale by Boston Scientific of its balloon
catheters and stent delivery systems infringe Cordis  Fontirroche patent. The Court has denied
Boston Scientific s post trial motions and is considering the appropriate remedy for future
infringement.

In May 2008, Centocor, Inc. (now COBI) filed a lawsuit against Genentech, Inc. (Genentech) in
U.S. District Court for the Central District of California seeking to invalidate the Cabilly II
patent. Prior to filing suit, Centocor had a sublicense under this patent from Celltech (who was
licensed by Genentech) for REMICADE    and had been paying royalties to Celltech. Centocor has
terminated that sublicense and stopped paying royalties. Genentech has filed a counterclaim
alleging that REMICADE    infringes its Cabilly II patents and that the manufacture of REMICADE   ,
ustekinumab, golimumab and ReoPro infringe various of its patents relating to the purification of
antibodies made through recombinant DNA techniques.

The following chart summarizes various patent lawsuits concerning products of Johnson  
Johnson subsidiaries that have yet to proceed to trial:

J J Product

Company 
       
     Patents 
       
     Plaintiff/ Patent Holder 
       
     Court 
       
     Trial Date 
       
     Date Filed 

Two-layer Catheters

Cordis

Kastenhofer

Boston Scientific Corp.

Multiple European

*

09/07 

Contact Lenses

Vision Care

Nicolson

CIBA Vision

M.D. FL

03/09

09/03 

CYPHER    Stent

Cordis

Wall

Wall

E.D. TX

04/11

11/07 

CYPHER    Stent

Cordis

Bonutti

MarcTec

S.D. IL

05/09

11/07 

CYPHER    Stent

Cordis

Saffran

Saffran

E.D. TX

01/11

10/07 

Stent/Catheter Delivery Systems

Cordis/Ethicon

Schock

Cardio Access LLC

E.D. TX

*

06/08 

LISTERINE    Tooth Whitening  
Strips

McNeil-PPC

Sagel

Procter   Gamble

W.D. WI

*

05/08 

Blood Glucose Meters and Strips

Lifescan

Wilsey

Roche Diagnostics

D. DE

*

11/07 

REMICADE   , ustekinumab,  
golimumab, ReoPro

Centocor

Cabilly II

Genentech

C.D. CA

*

05/08 

* Trial date to be scheduled. 

LITIGATION AGAINST FILERS OF ABBREVIATED NEW DRUG APPLICATIONS (ANDAs) 

The following chart indicates lawsuits pending against generic firms that filed Abbreviated New
Drug Applications (ANDAs) seeking to market generic forms of products sold by various subsidiaries
of the Company prior to expiration of the applicable patents covering those products. These ANDAs
typically include allegations of

non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability of these
patents. In the event the
subsidiary of the Company involved is not successful in these actions, or the statutory 30-month
stay expires before a ruling from the district court is obtained, the firms involved will have the
ability, upon FDA approval, to introduce generic versions of the product at issue resulting in very
substantial market share and revenue losses for the product of the Company s subsidiary.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

63 

As noted in the following chart, 30-month stays expired during 2006, 2007 and 2008, and will
expire in 2009, 2010 and 2011 with respect to ANDA challenges regarding various products:

* Trial date to be scheduled. 

In the action against Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Barr) regarding ORTHO TRI-CYCLEN    LO, on January
22, 2008, the Company s subsidiary Ortho Women s Health   Urology, a Division of
Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Barr agreed to a non-binding term sheet to settle
the litigation, which settlement discussions are still underway. The trial court postponed the
January 22, 2008 trial without setting a new trial date.

On October 16, 2008, the Company s subsidiary Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
(OMJPI) filed suit in Federal District Court in New Jersey against Watson Laboratories, Inc.
(Watson) in response to Watson s ANDA regarding ORTHO TRI-CYCLEN    LO.

In the action against Barr and AlphaPharm with respect to their ANDA challenges to the
RAZADYNE    patent that Janssen licenses from Synaptech, Inc. (Synaptech), a four-day non-jury trial
was held in the Federal District Court in Delaware in May 2007. On August 27, 2008, the court held
that the patent was invalid because it was not enabled. Janssen and Synaptech have appealed the
decision. Since the court s decision, three generic companies have received final approvals for
their products and have launched  at risk  pending appeal. Additional generic approvals and
launches could occur at any time.

In the action by McNEIL-PPC, Inc. against Andrx Corporation (Andrx) with respect to its ANDA
challenge to the CONCERTA    patents, a five-day non-jury trial was held in the Federal District
Court in Delaware in December 2007. The Court has yet to issue its ruling in that action.

In the RAZADYNE    ER cases, a lawsuit was filed against Barr on the RAZADYNE    use patent that
Janssen licenses from Synaptech in June 2006 and on the RAZADYNE    ER formulation patent in March
2007. Lawsuits (each for different dosages) were filed against KV Pharmaceutical Company (KV) on
the RAZADYNE    ER formulation patent in December 2007 and June 2008. Suit was filed against Sandoz
on the RAZADYNE    use patent that Janssen licenses from Synaptech in May 2007 and on the RAZADYNE   
ER formulation patent in June 2008. In September 2008, the above-discussed Delaware decision
invalidating the RAZADYNE    use patent resulted in entry of judgment for Barr on that patent, and
the case against Sandoz on that patent has been

stayed pending appeal of the Delaware decision.
Litigation against Barr, KV and Sandoz as to the RAZADYNE    ER formulation patent is proceeding.
Barr has received FDA approval of its product and has launched  at risk. 

In the action against
Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Lupin) regarding its ANDA concerning LEVAQUIN   , Lupin contends that
the United States Patent and Trademark Office improperly granted a patent term extension to the
patent that Ortho-McNeil (now Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) (OMJPI) licenses from
Daiichi Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Daiichi). Lupin alleges that the active ingredient in LEVAQUIN    was
the subject of prior marketing, and therefore was not eligible for the patent term extension. Lupin
concedes validity and that its product would violate the patent if marketed prior to the expiration
of the original patent term.

In the ULTRAM    ER actions, Ortho-McNeil (now OMJPI), filed lawsuits (each for different
dosages) against Par Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Par Pharmaceuticals Companies, Inc. (Par) in May,
June and October 2007 on two Tramadol ER formulation patents owned by Purdue Pharma Products L.P.
(Purdue) and Napp Pharmaceutical Group Ltd. (Napp). OMJPI also filed lawsuits (each for different
dosages) against Impax Laboratories, Inc. (Impax) on a Tramadol ER formulation patent owned by
Purdue and Napp in August and November 2008. Purdue, Napp and Biovail Laboratories International
SRL (Biovail)(the NDA holder) joined as co-plaintiffs in the lawsuits against Par and Impax.

AVERAGE WHOLESALE PRICE (AWP) LITIGATION 

Johnson   Johnson and several of its pharmaceutical subsidiaries, along with numerous other
pharmaceutical companies, are defendants in a series of lawsuits in state and federal courts
involving allegations that the pricing and marketing of certain pharmaceutical products amounted to
fraudulent and otherwise actionable conduct because, among other things, the companies allegedly
reported an inflated Average Wholesale Price (AWP) for the drugs at issue. Many of these cases,
both federal actions and state actions removed to federal court, have been consolidated for
pre-trial purposes in a Multi-District Litigation (MDL) in Federal District Court in Boston,
Massachusetts. The plaintiffs in these cases include classes of private persons or entities that
paid for any portion of the

purchase of the drugs at issue based on AWP, and state government entities that made Medicaid
payments for the drugs at issue based on AWP.

The MDL Court identified classes of Massachusetts-only private insurers providing  Medi-gap 
insurance coverage and private payers for physician-administered drugs where payments were based on
AWP ( Class 2  and  Class 3 ), and a national class of individuals who made co-payments for
physician-administered drugs covered by Medicare ( Class 1 ). A trial of the two Massachusetts-only
class actions concluded before the MDL Court in December 2006. In June 2007, the MDL Court issued
post-trial rulings, dismissing the Johnson   Johnson defendants from the case regarding all claims
of Classes 2 and 3, and subsequently of Class 1 as well. The ruling is the subject of a pending
appeal. AWP cases brought by various Attorneys General have proceeded to trial against other
manufacturers. Cases including Johnson   Johnson subsidiaries are expected to be set for trial in
2009 and thereafter.

OTHER 

In July 2003, Centocor (now COBI), a Johnson   Johnson subsidiary, received a request that it
voluntarily provide documents and information to the criminal division of the U.S. Attorney s
Office, District of New Jersey, in connection with its investigation into various Centocor
marketing practices. Subsequent requests for documents have been received from the U.S. Attorney s
Office. Both the Company and Centocor have responded to these requests for documents and
information.

In December 2003, Ortho-McNeil (now OMJPI) received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney s Office
in Boston, Massachusetts seeking documents relating to the marketing, including alleged off-label
marketing, of the drug TOPAMAX    (topiramate). Additional subpoenas for documents have been
received, and current and former employees have testified before a grand jury. Discussions are
underway in an effort to resolve this matter, but whether agreement can be reached and on what
terms is uncertain.

In January 2004, Janssen (now OMJPI) received a subpoena from the Office of the Inspector
General of the U.S. Office of Personnel Management seeking documents concerning sales and marketing
of, any and all payments to physicians in connection with sales and marketing of, and clinical
trials for, RISPERDAL    (risperidone) from 1997 to 2002. Documents subsequent to 2002 have also been
requested. An additional subpoena seeking information about marketing of and adverse reactions to
RISPERDAL    was received from the U.S. Attorney s Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania in
November 2005. Subpoenas seeking testimony from various witnesses before a grand jury have also
been received. Janssen is cooperating in responding to these subpoenas.

In September 2004, Ortho Biotech Inc. (now COBI), received a subpoena from the U.S. Office of
Inspector General s Denver, Colorado field office seeking documents directed to the sales and
marketing of PROCRIT    (Epoetin alfa) from 1997 to the present, as well as to dealings with U.S.
Oncology Inc., a healthcare services network for oncologists. Ortho Biotech (now COBI) has
responded to the subpoena.

In September 2004, plaintiffs in an employment discrimination litigation initiated against the
Company in 2001 in Federal District Court in New Jersey moved to certify a class of all African
American and Hispanic salaried employees of the Company and its affiliates in the U.S., who were
employed at any time from November 1997 to the present. Plaintiffs seek monetary damages for the
period 1997 through the present (including punitive damages) and equitable relief. The Court denied
plaintiffs  class certification motion in December 2006 and their motion for reconsideration in
April 2007. Plaintiffs sought to appeal these decisions and, in April 2008, the

Court of Appeals ruled that plaintiffs  appeal of the denial of class certification was untimely.
Plaintiffs are now engaged in further discovery of individual plaintiffs  claims.

In March 2005, DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. (DePuy), a Johnson   Johnson subsidiary, received a
subpoena from the U.S. Attorney s Office, District of New Jersey, seeking records concerning
contractual relationships between DePuy and surgeons or surgeons-in-training involved in hip and
knee replacement and reconstructive surgery. This investigation was resolved by DePuy and the four
other leading suppliers of hip and knee implants in late September 2007 by agreements with the U.S.
Attorney s Office for the District of New Jersey. The settlements include an 18-month Deferred
Prosecution Agreement (DPA), acceptance by each company of a monitor to assure compliance with the
DPA and, with respect to four of the five companies, payment of settlement monies and entry into
five year Corporate Integrity Agreements. DePuy paid $85 million as its settlement. In November
2007, the Attorney General of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts issued a civil investigative demand
to DePuy seeking information regarding financial relationships between a number of
Massachusetts-based orthopedic surgeons and providers and DePuy, which relationships had been
publicly disclosed by DePuy pursuant to the DPA. In February 2008, DePuy received a written request
for information from the U.S. Senate Special Committee on Aging, as a follow-up
to earlier inquiries, concerning a number of aspects of the DPA.

In July 2005, Scios Inc. (Scios), a Johnson   Johnson subsidiary, received a subpoena from the
U.S. Attorney s Office, District of Massachusetts, seeking documents related to the sales and
marketing of NATRECOR   . Scios is responding to the subpoena. In early August 2005, Scios was
advised that the investigation would be handled by the U.S. Attorney s Office for the Northern
District of California in San Francisco. Additional requests for documents have been received and
responded to and former and current Scios employees have testified before a grand jury in San
Francisco.

In September 2005, Johnson   Johnson received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney s Office,
District of Massachusetts, seeking documents related to sales and marketing of eight drugs to
Omni-care, Inc., a manager of pharmaceutical benefits for long-term care facilities. The Johnson  
Johnson subsidiaries involved responded to the subpoena. Several employees of the Company s
pharmaceutical subsidiaries have been subpoenaed to testify before a grand jury in connection with
this investigation.

In November 2005, Amgen filed suit against Hoffmann-LaRoche, Inc. (Roche) in the U.S. District
Court for the District of Massachusetts seeking a declaration that the Roche product CERA, which
Roche has indicated it would seek to introduce into the United States, infringes a number of Amgen
patents concerning EPO. Amgen licenses EPO for sale in the United States to Ortho Biotech (now
COBI) for non-dialysis indications. Trial in this action concluded in October 2007 with a verdict
in Amgen s favor, finding the patents valid and infringed. The judge issued a preliminary
injunction blocking the CERA launch, but said he was considering modifying that injunction to grant
Roche a compulsory license that would allow it to launch in the U.S. if it paid a 22.5 percent
royalty. In a subsequent decision, the district judge indicated he would not grant Roche a
compulsory license.

In February 2006, Johnson   Johnson received a subpoena from the U.S. Securities   Exchange
Commission (SEC) requesting documents relating to the participation by several Johnson   Johnson
subsidiaries in the United Nations Iraq Oil for Food Program. The subsidiaries are cooperating with
the SEC and U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) in producing responsive documents.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

65 

In September 2006, Janssen (now OMJPI) received a subpoena from the Attorney General of the
State of California seeking documents regarding sales and marketing and side-effects of RISPERDAL   ,
as well as interactions with State officials regarding the State s formulary for
Medicaid-reimbursed drugs. Janssen (now OMJPI) has responded to the subpoena.

In February 2007, Johnson   Johnson voluntarily disclosed to the DOJ and the SEC that
subsidiaries outside the United States are believed to have made improper payments in connection
with the sale of medical devices in two small-market countries, which payments may fall within the
jurisdiction of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). In the course of continuing dialogues
with the agencies, other issues potentially rising to the level of FCPA violations in additional
markets have been brought to the attention of the agencies by the Company. The Company has provided
and will continue to provide additional information to DOJ and SEC, and will cooperate with the
agencies  reviews of these matters. Law enforcement agencies of a number of other countries are
also pursuing investigations of matters voluntarily disclosed by the Company to DOJ and SEC.
Discussions are underway in an effort to resolve these matters, and the Iraq Oil for Food matter
referenced above, but whether agreement can be reached and on what terms is uncertain.

In March 2007, the Company received separate subpoenas from the U.S. Attorney s Office in
Philadelphia, the U.S. Attorney s Office in Boston and the U.S. Attorney s Office in San Francisco.
The subpoenas relate to investigations by these three offices referenced above concerning,
respectively, sales and marketing of RISPERDAL    by Janssen (now OMJPI), TOPAMAX    by Ortho-McNeil
(now OMJPI) and NATRECOR    by Scios. The subpoenas request information regarding the Company s
corporate supervision and oversight of these three subsidiaries, including their sales and
marketing of these drugs. The Company responded to these requests. In addition, the U.S. Attorney s
office in Boston has issued subpoenas for grand jury testimony to several employees of Johnson  
Johnson.

In May 2007, the New York State Attorney General issued a subpoena seeking information
relating to the marketing and safety of PROCRIT   . The Company is responding to these requests.

In April 2007, the Company received two subpoenas from the Office of the Attorney General of
the State of Delaware. The subpoenas seek documents and information relating to nominal pricing
agreements. For purposes of the subpoenas, nominal pricing agreements are defined as agreements
under which the Company agreed to provide a pharmaceutical product for less than ten percent of the
Average Manufacturer Price for the product. The Company responded to these requests.

In January 2008, the European Commission ( EC ) began an industry-wide antitrust inquiry
concerning competitive conditions within the pharmaceutical sector. Because this is a sector
inquiry, it is not based on any specific allegation that the Company has violated EC competition
law. The inquiry began with unannounced raids of a substantial number of pharmaceutical companies
throughout Europe, including Johnson   Johnson affiliates. In March 2008, the EC issued detailed
questionnaires to approximately 100 companies, including Johnson   Johnson affiliates. In November
2008, the EC issued a preliminary report summarizing its findings. The final report is expected in
June or July of 2009.

In March 2008, the Company received a letter request from the Attorney General of the State of
Michigan. The request seeks documents and information relating to nominal price transactions. The
Company is responding to the request and will cooperate with the inquiry.

In June 2008, Johnson   Johnson received a subpoena from the United States Attorneys Office
for the District of Massachusetts relating to the marketing of biliary stents by the Company s
Cordis subsidiary. Cordis is cooperating in responding to the subpoena.

In September 2008, Multilan AG, an indirect subsidiary of Schering-Plough Corporation,
commenced arbitration against Janssen Pharmaceutica NV for an alleged wrongful termination of an
agreement relating to payments in connection with termination of certain marketing rights. Multilan
seeks declaratory relief, specific performance and damages. Multilan alleges that damages exceed
   700 million. The parties are in the process of selecting an arbitral tribunal.

In recent years the Company has received numerous requests from a variety of United States
Congressional Committees to produce information relevant to ongoing congressional inquiries. It is
the Company s policy to cooperate with these inquiries by producing the requested information.

With respect to all the above matters, the Company and its subsidiaries are vigorously
contesting the allegations asserted against them and otherwise pursuing defenses to maximize the
prospect of success. The Company and its subsidiaries involved in these matters continually
evaluate their strategies in managing these matters and, where appropriate, pursue settlements and
other resolutions where those are in the best interest of the Company.

The Company is also involved in a number of other patent, trademark and other lawsuits
incidental to its business. The ultimate legal and financial liability of the Company in respect to
all claims, lawsuits and proceedings referred to above cannot be estimated with any certainty.
However, in the Company s opinion, based on its examination of these matters, its experience to
date and discussions with counsel, the ultimate outcome of legal proceedings, net of liabilities
accrued in the Company s balance sheet, is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the
Company s financial condition, although the resolution in any reporting period of one or more of
these matters could have a significant impact on the Company s results of operations and cash flows
for that period.

19. Earnings Per Share 

The following is a reconciliation of basic net earnings per share to diluted net earnings per share
for the fiscal years ended December 28, 2008, December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006:

The diluted net earnings per share calculation includes the dilutive effect of convertible debt
that is offset by the related reduction in interest expense of $4 million after tax for years 2008,
2007 and 2006.

Diluted net earnings per share excludes 59 million, 64 million and 43 million shares
underlying stock options for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, as the exercise price of these
options was greater than their average market value, which would result in an anti-dilutive effect
on diluted earnings per share.

20. Capital and Treasury Stock 

Changes in treasury stock were:

Aggregate shares of Common Stock issued were approximately 3,120 million shares at the end of 2008,
2007 and 2006.

Cash dividends paid were $1.795 per share in 2008, compared with dividends of $1.620 per share
in 2007 and $1.455 per share in 2006.

21. Selected Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited) 

Selected unaudited quarterly financial data for the years 2008 and 2007 are summarized below:

(1)   
      The second quarter of 2008 includes an after-tax charge of $40 million for IPR D.  

(2)   
      The fourth quarter of 2008 includes an after-tax charge of $141 million for IPR D,
$229 million after-tax of income from net litigation and $331 million after-tax gain on the
divestiture of the Professional Wound Care business of Ethicon, Inc. The gain from the divestiture
of the Professional Wound Care business of Ethicon, Inc. was reinvested in the business.  

(3)   
      The first quarter of 2007 includes an after-tax charge of $807 million for IPR D.  

(4)   
      The third quarter of 2007 includes an after-tax charge of $528 million for
restructuring.  

(5)   
      The fourth quarter of 2007 includes an after-tax charge of $441 million for the
NATRECOR   
intangible asset write-down and a one-time tax gain of $267 million for restructuring.
The lower tax rate is due to increases in taxable income in lower tax jurisdictions relative to
taxable income in higher tax jurisdictions.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
               67 

22. Restructuring 

In the third quarter of 2007, the Company announced restructuring initiatives in an effort to
improve its overall cost structure. This action was taken to offset the anticipated negative
impacts associated with generic competition in the Pharmaceutical segment and challenges in the
drug-eluting stent market. The Company s Pharmaceuticals segment has reduced its cost base by
consolidating certain operations, while continuing to invest in recently launched products and its
late-stage pipeline of new products. The Cordis franchise has moved to a more integrated business
model to address the market changes underway with drug-eluting stents and to better serve the broad
spectrum of its patients  cardiovascular needs, while reducing its cost base. This program allowed
the Company to accelerate steps to standardize and streamline certain aspects of its
enterprise-wide functions such as human resources, finance and information technology to support
growth across the business, while also leveraging its scale more effectively in areas such as
procurement to benefit its operating companies. Additionally, as part of this program the Company
plans to eliminate approximately 4,400 positions of which approximately 3,500 have been eliminated
since the restructuring initiative was announced in 2007.

During the fiscal third quarter of 2007, the Company recorded $745 million in related pre-tax
charges, of which, approximately $500 million of the pre-tax restructuring charges are expected to
require cash payments. The $745 million of restructuring charges consists of severance costs of
$450 million, asset write-offs of $272 million and $23 million related to leasehold obligations.
The $272 million of asset write-offs relate to property, plant and equipment of $166 million,
intangible assets of $48 million and other assets of $58 million.

The following table summarizes the severance charges and the associated spending:

*  
      Remaining reserve balance for severance is expected to be paid in accordance with the
Company s plans and local laws.  

For additional information on the restructuring as it relates to the segments, see Note 11.

23. Fair Value Measurements 

During the fiscal first quarter of 2008, the Company adopted SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements 
except for non-financial assets and liabilities recognized or disclosed at fair value on a
non-recurring basis, for which the effective date is fiscal years beginning after November 15,
2008. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and
expands disclosures about fair value measurements.

During the fiscal first quarter of 2008, the Company adopted SFAS No. 159,  Fair Value Option
for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.  SFAS No. 159 permits the Company to measure certain
financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value. The Company assessed the fair value
option made available upon adopting SFAS No. 159, and has elected not to apply the fair value
option to any financial instruments that were not already recognized at fair value.

SFAS No. 157 defines fair value as the exit price that would be received to sell an asset or
paid to transfer a liability. Fair value is a market-based measurement that should be determined
using assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability. The
statement establishes a three-level hierarchy to prioritize the inputs used in measuring fair
value. The levels within the hierarchy are described in the table below with level 1 having the
highest priority and level 3 having the lowest.

The following table provides a summary of the significant assets and liabilities that are
measured at fair value as of December 28, 2008.

The Company uses forward exchange contracts to manage its exposure to the variability of cash
flows, primarily related to the foreign exchange rate changes on future intercompany and
third-party purchases of raw materials denominated in foreign currency. The Company also uses
currency swaps to manage currency risk primarily related to borrowings. The fair value of
derivative instruments is the aggregation, by currency, of all future cash flows discounted to
present value at prevailing market interest rates, and subsequently converted to the United States
dollar at the current spot foreign exchange rate. The Company does not believe that fair values of
these derivative instruments materially differ from the amounts that could be realized upon
settlement or maturity, or that the changes in fair value will have a material effect on the
Company s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. The Company did not have any
other significant financial assets or liabilities, which would require revised valuations under
SFAS No. 157 that are recognized at fair value.

24. Subsequent Events 

On January 23, 2009, the Company completed the acquisition of Mentor Corporation for a net purchase
price of $1.1 billion. Mentor Corporation is a leading supplier of medical products for the global
aesthetic market.

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Johnson   Johnson:

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated
statements of earnings, statements of equity, and statements of cash flows present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Johnson   Johnson and its subsidiaries ( the Company )
at December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 28, 2008 in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the
Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting
as of December 28, 2008, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The
Company s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective
internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying,  Management s Report on Internal
Control over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial
statements and on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated
audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over

financial reporting included
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a
material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately
and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and
directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have
a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent
or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

New York, New York 
February 17, 2009

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, management is required to assess the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each
fiscal year and report, based on that assessment, whether the Company s internal control over
financial reporting is effective.

Management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over financial reporting. The Company s internal control over financial reporting is designed
to provide reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the Company s financial reporting and the
preparation of external financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.

Internal controls over financial reporting, no matter how well designed, have inherent
limitations. Therefore, internal control over financial reporting determined to be effective can
provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and may not
prevent or detect all misstatements. Moreover, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The Company s management has assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 28, 2008. In making this assessment, the Company

used the
criteria established by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO)
in  Internal Control-Integrated Framework.  These criteria are in the areas of control environment,
risk assessment, control activities, information and communication, and monitoring. The Company s
assessment included extensive documenting, evaluating and testing the design and operating
effectiveness of its internal controls over financial reporting.

Based on the Company s processes and assessment, as described above, management has concluded
that, as of December 28, 2008, the Company s internal control over financial reporting was
effective.

The effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December
28, 2008 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
accounting firm, as stated in their report, which appears herein.

William C. Weldon

Dominic J. Caruso 

Chairman, Board of Directors,
and Chief Executive Officer

Vice President, Finance,
and Chief Financial Officer 

(1)   
      Net of interest and other income.  

(2)   
      Also included in cost of materials and services category.  

(3)   
      Includes taxes on income, payroll, property and other business taxes.  

(4)   
      2008 includes a $536 million before tax gain from the divestiture of the
Professional Wound Care business of Ethicon, Inc. and a $379 million before tax net fourth quarter
litigation gain.  
2007 includes a $678 million before tax write-down related to the NATRECOR    intangible asset.  

70  
       
      SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS AND STATISTICAL DATA

Shareholder Return Performance Graphs 

Set forth below are line graphs comparing the cumulative total shareholder return on the Company s
Common Stock for periods of five years and ten years ending December 31, 2008, against the
cumulative total return of the Standard   Poor s 500 Stock Index, the Standard   Poor s
Pharmaceutical Index and the Standard   Poor s Health Care Equipment Index. The graphs and tables
assume that $100 was invested on December 31, 2003 and December 31, 1998 in each of the Company s
Common Stock, the Standard   Poor s 500 Stock Index, the Standard   Poor s Pharmaceutical Index and
the Standard   Poor s Health Care Equipment Index and that all dividends were reinvested.

SHAREHOLDER RETURN PERFORMANCE GRAPHS

71 

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 11
 y74152exv21.htm
 EX-21: SUBSIDIARIES

EX-21 

EXHIBIT 21  

SUBSIDIARIES  

Johnson   Johnson, a New Jersey corporation, had the
    domestic and international subsidiaries shown below as of
    December 28, 2008. Certain U.S. subsidiaries and
    international subsidiaries are not named because they were not
    significant in the aggregate. Johnson   Johnson has no
    parent.

Jurisdiction of 

Name of Subsidiary 

Organization 

U.S. Subsidiaries:

Advanced Sterilization Products Services Inc. 

New Jersey

Advanced Technologies and Regenerative Medicine, LLC

Delaware

ALZA Corporation

Delaware

ALZA Development Corporation

California

ALZA Land Management, Inc. 

Delaware

Animas Corporation

Delaware

Biosense Webster, Inc. 

California

Centocor Biologics, LLC

Pennsylvania

Centocor, Inc. 

Pennsylvania

Centocor Ortho Biotech Services LLC

New Jersey

Centocor Research   Development, Inc. 

Pennsylvania

Closure Medical Corporation

Delaware

CNA Development LLC

Delaware

Codman   Shurtleff, Inc. 

New Jersey

Conor Medsystems, LLC

Delaware

Cordis Corporation

Florida

Cordis Development Corporation

Florida

Cordis International Corporation

Delaware

Cordis LLC

Delaware

Cordis Neurovascular, Inc. 

Florida

Crescendo Pharmaceuticals Corporation

Delaware

DePuy, Inc. 

Delaware

DePuy Mitek, Inc. 

Massachusetts

DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. 

Indiana

DePuy Products, Inc. 

Indiana

DePuy Spine, Inc. 

Ohio

DePuy Spine Sales Limited Partnership

Massachusetts

Diabetes Diagnostics, Inc. 

Delaware

Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. 

Ohio

Ethicon Endo-Surgery, LLC

Delaware

Ethicon Endo-Surgery Services, L.P. 

Texas

Ethicon, Inc. 

New Jersey

Ethicon LLC

Delaware

Global Biologics Supply Chain, LLC

Pennsylvania

GUH Corporation

Delaware

GynoPharma Inc. 

Delaware

Hand Innovations LLC

Delaware

HealthMedia, Inc. 

Michigan

Innovational Holdings, LLC

Delaware

ISO Holding Corp. 

Delaware

Jurisdiction of 

Name of Subsidiary 

Organization 

J J Holdings (Nevada), Inc. 

Nevada

Janssen Ortho LLC

Delaware

JJHC, LLC

Delaware

JNJ International Investment LLC

Delaware

Johnson   Johnson Baby Products, Inc. 

Delaware

Johnson   Johnson Consumer Companies, Inc. 

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Development Corporation

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Finance Corporation

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Health Care Systems Inc. 

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson International

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Japan Inc. 

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson   Merck Consumer
    Pharmaceuticals Co. 

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson (Middle East) Inc. 

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Pharmaceutical Research  
    Development, L.L.C. 

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Pharmaceutical Services, LLC

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Professional Co. (P.R.) Inc. 

Delaware

Johnson   Johnson Sales and Logistics Company, LLC

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Services, Inc. 

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Urban Renewal Associates

New Jersey

Johnson   Johnson Vision Care, Inc. 

Florida

Joint Medical Products Corporation

Delaware

LGE Performance Systems, Inc.

Florida

LifeScan, Inc. 

California

LifeScan LLC

Delaware

LifeScan Products, LLC

Delaware

LuMend, Inc. 

Delaware

McNeil Consumer Healthcare Latin America LLC

Delaware

McNeil Healthcare LLC

Delaware

McNeil LA LLC

Delaware

McNeil Nutritionals, LLC

Delaware

McNEIL-PPC, Inc. 

New Jersey

Middlesex Assurance Company Limited

Vermont

Neutrogena Corporation

Delaware

Nitinol Development Corporation

California

Noramco, Inc. 

Georgia

OMJ Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 

Delaware

Omrix Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. 

Delaware

OraPharma, Inc. 

Delaware

Ortho Biologics LLC

Delaware

Ortho Biotech Holding Corp. 

Delaware

Ortho Biotech Inc. 

New Jersey

Ortho Biotech Products, L.P. 

New Jersey

Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc. 

New York

Ortho-McNeil Finance Co. 

Florida

Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 

Pennsylvania

Patriot Pharmaceuticals, LLC

Pennsylvania

Rutan Realty LLC

New Jersey

Scios Inc. 

Delaware

Jurisdiction of 

Name of Subsidiary 

Organization 

SurgRx, Inc. 

Delaware

TERAMed Corporation

Delaware

Therapeutic Discovery Corporation

Delaware

The Tylenol Company

New Jersey

TransForm Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 

Delaware

Veridex, LLC

Delaware

International Subsidiaries:

Alza Ireland Limited

Ireland

Amic AB

Sweden

Apsis S.A.S. 

France

Beijing Dabao Cosmetics Co., Ltd. 

China

Biosense Webster (Israel) Ltd. 

Israel

Carlo Erba OTC S.r.l. 

Italy

Centocor Biologics (Ireland)

Ireland

Centocor B.V. 

Netherlands

Cilag Advanced Technologies GmbH

Switzerland

Cilag AG

Switzerland

Cilag de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico

Cilag GmbH International

Switzerland

Cilag Holding AG

Switzerland

Cilag Pharmaceuticals GmbH

Switzerland

Codman Sarl

Switzerland

ColBar LifeScience Ltd. 

Israel

Cordis Cashel

Ireland

Cordis de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico

Cordis Europa N.V. 

Netherlands

Cordis Medizinische Apparate GmbH

Germany

Cordis S.A.S. 

France

DePuy Ace Sarl

Switzerland

DePuy International Limited

United Kingdom

DePuy International (Holdings) Limited

United Kingdom

DePuy (Ireland)

Ireland

DePuy Mitek Sarl

Switzerland

DePuy Orthopadie GmbH

Germany

DePuy Spine Sarl

Switzerland

DePuy UK Holdings Limited

United Kingdom

EES Holdings de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C. V. 

Mexico

EES, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico

Ethicon Ireland

Ireland

Ethicon Sarl

Switzerland

Ethicon SAS

France

Ethicon Women s Health   Urology Sarl

Switzerland

Ethnor Del Istmo S.A. 

Panama

Ethnor Farmaceutica, S.A. 

Venezuela

FMS Future Medical System SA

Switzerland

GMED Health Care Limited

Ireland

Group Vend me SAS

France

High Wycombe Property Management Limited

United Kingdom

Jurisdiction of 

Name of Subsidiary 

Organization 

Janssen-Cilag AB

Sweden

Janssen-Cilag A/S

Denmark

Janssen-Cilag AG

Switzerland

Janssen-Cilag B.V. 

Netherlands

Janssen-Cilag Farmaceutica, Lda. 

Portugal

Janssen-Cilag Farmaceutica Ltda. 

Brazil

Janssen-Cilag GmbH

Germany

Janssen-Cilag Ltd. 

Thailand

Janssen-Cilag Limited

United Kingdom

Janssen-Cilag NV

Belgium

Janssen-Cilag OY

Finland

Janssen-Cilag Pharmaceutical S.A.C.I. 

Greece

Janssen-Cilag Pharma GmbH

Austria

Janssen-Cilag Polska, Sp. z o.o. 

Poland

Janssen-Cilag Pty. Ltd. 

Australia

Janssen-Cilag, S.A. 

Spain

Janssen-Cilag, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico

Janssen-Cilag S.A.S. 

France

Janssen-Cilag S.p.A. 

Italy

Janssen Korea Ltd. 

Korea

Janssen-Ortho Inc. 

Canada

Janssen Pharmaceutica NV

Belgium

Janssen Pharmaceutica (Pty) Limited

South Africa

Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K. 

Japan

Janssen Pharmaceutical

Ireland

J.C. General Services CVBA

Belgium

J-C Healthcare Ltd. 

Israel

JHC Nederland B.V. 

Netherlands

Johnson   Johnson AB

Sweden

Johnson   Johnson AG

Switzerland

Johnson   Johnson (China) Investment Co., Ltd. 

China

Johnson   Johnson (China) Ltd. 

China

Johnson   Johnson Consumer France SAS

France

Johnson   Johnson Consumer Healthcare S.r.l. 

Italy

Johnson   Johnson Consumer (Hong Kong) Limited

Hong Kong

Johnson   Johnson Consumer Services EAME Ltd. 

United Kingdom

Johnson   Johnson de Argentina S.A.C.e I. 

Argentina

Johnson   Johnson de Colombia S.A. 

Colombia

Johnson   Johnson de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico

Johnson   Johnson de Venezuela, S.A. 

Venezuela

Johnson   Johnson del Peru S.A. 

Peru

Johnson   Johnson do Brasil Industria E Comercio de
    Produtos Para Saude Ltda. 

Brazil

Johnson   Johnson European Treasury Company

Ireland

Johnson   Johnson (Egypt) S.A.E. 

Egypt

Johnson   Johnson Finance Limited

United Kingdom

Johnson   Johnson Financial Services GmbH

Germany

Johnson   Johnson Gesellschaft m.b.H. 

Austria

Johnson   Johnson GmbH

Germany

Jurisdiction of 

Name of Subsidiary 

Organization 

Johnson   Johnson Group Holdings G.m.b.H

Germany

Johnson   Johnson Hellas S.A. 

Greece

Johnson   Johnson Hemisferica S.A. 

Puerto Rico

Johnson   Johnson Holding GmbH

Germany

Johnson   Johnson (Hong Kong) Limited

Hong Kong

Johnson   Johnson Inc. 

Canada

Johnson   Johnson Industrial Ltda. 

Brazil

Johnson   Johnson International Financial Services
    Company

Ireland

Johnson   Johnson Kft. 

Hungary

Johnson   Johnson K. K. 

Japan

Johnson   Johnson Korea, Ltd. 

Korea

Johnson   Johnson Limitada

Portugal

Johnson   Johnson Limited

India

Johnson   Johnson Limited

United Kingdom

Johnson   Johnson LLC

Russia

Johnson   Johnson Luxembourg Finance Company Sarl

Luxembourg

Johnson   Johnson Management Limited

United Kingdom

Johnson   Johnson Medical B.V. 

Netherlands

Johnson   Johnson Medical (China) Ltd. 

China

Johnson   Johnson Medical GmbH

Germany

Johnson   Johnson Medical Holding S.p.A. 

Italy

Johnson   Johnson Medical Korea Limited

Korea

Johnson   Johnson Medical Limited

United Kingdom

Johnson   Johnson Medical Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico

Johnson   Johnson Medical NV

Belgium

Johnson   Johnson Medical Products GmbH

Austria

Johnson   Johnson Medical (Pty) Limited

South Africa

Johnson   Johnson Medical Pty Ltd. 

Australia

Johnson   Johnson Medical (Shanghai) Ltd. 

China

Johnson   Johnson Medical S.p.A. 

Italy

Johnson   Johnson Medical (Suzhou) Ltd. 

China

Johnson   Johnson (New Zealand) Limited

New Zealand

Johnson   Johnson Nordic AB

Sweden

Johnson   Johnson Pacific Pty. Limited

Australia

Johnson   Johnson Pakistan (Private) Limited

Pakistan

Johnson   Johnson (Philippines), Inc. 

Philippines

Johnson   Johnson Poland Sp. z o.o

Poland

Johnson   Johnson, Prodaja medicinskih in
    farmacevtskih izdelkov, d.o.o. 

Slovenia

Johnson   Johnson (Proprietary) Limited

South Africa

Johnson   Johnson Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore

Johnson   Johnson Pty. Limited

Australia

Johnson   Johnson S.A. 

Spain

Johnson   Johnson SDN. BHD. 

Malaysia

Johnson   Johnson S.p.A

Italy

Johnson   Johnson, s.r.o. 

Czech Republic

Johnson   Johnson, s.r.o. 

Slovakia

Johnson   Johnson Swiss Finance Company Limited

United Kingdom

Johnson   Johnson Taiwan Ltd. 

Taiwan

Jurisdiction of 

Name of Subsidiary 

Organization 

Johnson   Johnson (Thailand) Ltd. 

Thailand

Johnson   Johnson Vision Care (Ireland) Limited

Ireland

Johnson   Johnson Vision Care (Shanghai) Ltd. 

China

Laboratoires Polive S.N.C. 

France

Laboratoires Vendome, SAS

France

Latam International Investment Company

Ireland

Latam Properties Holdings

Ireland

Lifescan Canada Ltd. 

Canada

Lifescan Scotland Limited

United Kingdom

McNeil AB

Sweden

McNeil Comm. VA

Belgium

McNeil Consumer Healthcare GmbH

Germany

McNeil Consumer Healthcare, S.L.U. 

Spain

McNeil Denmark ApS

Denmark

McNeil Esbjerg ApS

Denmark

McNeil GmbH   Co. oHG

Germany

McNeil Healthcare (UK) Limited

United Kingdom

McNeil Iberica S.L.U. 

Spain

McNeil Limited

United Kingdom

McNeil Manufacturing Pty Ltd

Australia

McNeil Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico

McNeil Products Limited

United Kingdom

McNeil Sante Grand Public

France

McNeil SAS

France

McNeil Sweden AB

Sweden

Medos International Sarl

Switzerland

Medos Sarl

Switzerland

OBTECH Medical Sarl

Switzerland

OMJ Ireland

Ireland

OMJ Manufacturing

Ireland

Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics

United Kingdom

Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics GmbH

Germany

Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics K.K. 

Japan

Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics NV

Belgium

Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics S.A.S. 

France

P.T. Johnson   Johnson Indonesia

Indonesia

Shanghai Johnson   Johnson Pharmaceuticals, Ltd. 

China

Tasmanian Alkaloids Pty. Ltd. 

Australia

Tibotec Pharmaceuticals

Ireland

Tibotec-Virco Comm. VA

Belgium

Tibotec-Virco Virology BVBA

Belgium

Turnbuckle Investment Company

Ireland

Vania Expansion, S.N.C. 

France

Xian-Janssen Pharmaceutical Ltd. 

China

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 12
 y74152exv23.htm
 EX-23: CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

EX-23 

EXHIBIT
    23  

CONSENT
    OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the
    Registration Statements on Form
     S-8 
     (No. 333-129542, 
     333-124785, 
     333-106007, 
     333-104828, 
     333-96541, 
     333-87736, 
     333-67370, 
     333-59380, 
     333-39238, 
     333-94367, 
     333-86611, 
     333-40681, 
     333-38055, 
     333-26979, 
     333-00391, 
     33-59009, 
     33-57583, 
     33-52252, 
     33-40295, 
     33-40294, 
     33-32875) 
    and
     Form S-3 
     (No. 333-149632, 
     333-138649, 
     333-104821, 
     333-67020, 
     333-91349) 
    of Johnson   Johnson of our report dated February 17,
    2009 relating to the financial statements and the effectiveness
    of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in
    the Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated in this
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report
    dated February 17, 2009 relating to the financial statement
    schedule, which appears in this
     Form 10-K. 

/s/   PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP 

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

New York, New York

February 19, 2009

</EX-23>

<EX-31.A>
 13
 y74152exv31wa.htm
 EX-31.A: CERTIFICATION

EX-31.A 

EXHIBIT
    31(a)  

CERTIFICATION
    OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
    PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT  

I, William C. Weldon, certify that:

1.  I have reviewed this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2008 (the
     report ) of Johnson   Johnson (the
     Company 

2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not
    contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state
    a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light
    of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements,
    and other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of, and
    for, the periods presented in this report;

4.  The Company s other certifying officer(s) and
    I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
    defined in Exchange Act Rules
     13a-15(f) 
    and 15d-15(f)) for the Company and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the Company, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared;

b) Designed such internal control  over financial
    reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
    reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
    external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles;

c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the Company s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and

d) Disclosed in this report any change in the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the Company s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the Company s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control
    over financial reporting; and

5.  The Company s other certifying officer(s) and
    I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
    internal control over financial reporting, to the Company s
    auditors and the audit committee of the Company s board of
    directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    Company s ability to record, process, summarize and report
    financial information; and

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/   William
    C. Weldon 

William C. Weldon

Chief Executive Officer 

Date: February 10, 2009

</EX-31.A>

<EX-31.B>
 14
 y74152exv31wb.htm
 EX-31.B: CERTIFICATION

EX-31.B 

EXHIBIT
    31(b)  

CERTIFICATION
    OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER  

PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT 

I, Dominic J. Caruso, certify that:

1.  I have reviewed this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2008 (the
     report ) of Johnson   Johnson (the
     Company 

2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not
    contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state
    a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light
    of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements,
    and other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of, and
    for, the periods presented in this report;

4.  The Company s other certifying officer(s) and
    I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
    defined in Exchange Act Rules
     13a-15(f) 
    and 15d-15(f)) for the Company and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the Company, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared;

b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting,
    or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the Company s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and

d) Disclosed in this report any change in the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the Company s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the Company s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control
    over financial reporting; and

5.  The Company s other certifying officer(s) and
    I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
    internal control over financial reporting, to the Company s
    auditors and the audit committee of the Company s board of
    directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    Company s ability to record, process, summarize and report
    financial information; and

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/   Dominic
    J. Caruso 

Dominic J. Caruso

Chief Financial Officer 

Date: February 10, 2009

</EX-31.B>

<EX-32.A>
 15
 y74152exv32wa.htm
 EX-32.A: CERTIFICATION

EX-32.A 

EXHIBIT
    32(a)  

CERTIFICATION
    OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
    PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT  

The undersigned, William C. Weldon, the Chief Executive Officer
    of Johnson   Johnson, a New Jersey corporation (the
     Company ), pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as
    adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
    of 2002, hereby certifies that, to the best of my knowledge:

(1) the Company s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2008 (the
     Report ) fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) the information contained in the Report fairly
    presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
    results of operations of the Company.

/s/   William
    C. Weldon 

William C. Weldon

Chief Executive Officer 

Dated: February 10, 2009

This certification is being furnished to the SEC with this
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
    and shall not, except to the extent required by such Act, be
    deemed filed by the Company for purposes of Section 18 of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise
    subject to the liability of that section.

</EX-32.A>

<EX-32.B>
 16
 y74152exv32wb.htm
 EX-32.B: CERTIFICATION

EX-32.B 

EXHIBIT
    32(b)  

CERTIFICATION
    OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
    PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT  

The undersigned, Dominic J. Caruso, the Chief Financial Officer
    of Johnson   Johnson, a New Jersey corporation (the
     Company ), pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as
    adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
    of 2002, hereby certifies that, to the best of my knowledge:

(1) the Company s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2008 (the
     Report ) fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) the information contained in the Report fairly
    presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
    results of operations of the Company.

/s/   Dominic
    J. Caruso 

Dominic J. Caruso

Chief Financial Officer 

Dated: February 10, 2009

This certification is being furnished to the SEC with this
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
    and shall not, except to the extent required by such Act, be
    deemed filed by the Company for purposes of Section 18 of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise
    subject to the liability of that section.

</EX-32.B>

<EX-99>
 17
 y74152exv99.htm
 EX-99: CAUTIONARY STATEMENT

EX-99 

EXHIBIT
    99  

CAUTIONARY
    STATEMENT PURSUANT TO PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM 
    ACT OF 1995    SAFE HARBOR  FOR
    FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  

The Company may from time to time make certain forward-looking
    statements in publicly-released materials, both written and
    oral. Forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to
    historical or current facts and anticipate results based on
    management s plans that are subject to uncertainty.
    Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of words
    such as  plans,   expects, 
     will,   anticipates,   estimates 
    and other words of similar meaning in conjunction with, among
    other things, discussions of future operations, financial
    performance, the Company s strategy for growth, product
    development, regulatory approvals, market position and
    expenditures.

Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations of
    future events. The Company cannot guarantee that any
    forward-looking statement will be accurate, although the Company
    believes that it has been reasonable in its expectations and
    assumptions. Investors should realize that if underlying
    assumptions prove inaccurate or unknown risks or uncertainties
    materialize, actual results could vary materially from the
    Company s expectations and projections. Investors are
    therefore cautioned not to place undue reliance on any
    forward-looking statements. Furthermore, the Company does not
    undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result
    of new information or future events or developments.

Some important factors that could cause the Company s
    actual results to differ from the Company s expectations in
    any forward-looking statements are as follows:

Economic factors, including inflation and fluctuations in
    interest rates and currency exchange rates and the potential
    effect of such fluctuations on revenues, expenses and resulting
    margins;

Competitive factors, including technological advances achieved
    and patents attained by competitors as well as new products
    introduced by competitors;

Challenges to the Company s patents by competitors or
    allegations that the Company s products infringe the
    patents of third parties, which could potentially affect the
    Company s competitive position and ability to sell the
    products in question and require the payment of past damages and
    future royalties. In particular, generic drug firms have filed
    Abbreviated New Drug Applications seeking to market generic
    forms of most of the Company s key pharmaceutical products,
    prior to expiration of the applicable patents covering those
    products. In the event that the Company is not successful in
    defending the resulting lawsuits, generic versions of the
    product at issue will be introduced, resulting in very
    substantial market share and revenue losses;

Financial distress and bankruptcies experienced by significant
    customers and suppliers that could impair their ability, as the
    case may be, to purchase the Company s products, pay for
    products previously purchased or meet their obligations to the
    Company under supply arrangements;

Changes in the behavior and spending patterns of purchasers of
    health care products and services, including delaying medical
    procedures, rationing prescription medications, reducing the
    frequency of physician visits and foregoing health care
    insurance coverage, as a result of a prolonged global economic
    downturn.

The impact on political and economic conditions due to terrorist
    attacks in the U.S. and other parts of the world or U.S.
    military action overseas, as well as instability in the
    financial markets which could result from such terrorism or
    military actions;

Interruptions of computer and communication systems, including
    computer viruses, that could impair the Company s ability
    to conduct business and communicate internally and with its
    customers;

Health care changes in the U.S. and other countries resulting in
    pricing pressures, including the continued consolidation among
    health care providers, trends toward managed care and health
    care cost containment, the shift towards governments becoming
    the primary payers of health care expenses and government laws
    and regulations relating to sales and promotion, reimbursement
    and pricing generally;

Government laws and regulations, affecting U.S. and foreign
    operations, including those relating to securities laws
    compliance, trade, monetary and fiscal policies, taxes, price
    controls, regulatory approval of new products, licensing and
    patent rights, and possible drug reimportation legislation;

Competition in research, involving the development and the
    improvement of new and existing products and processes, is
    particularly significant and results from time to time in
    product and process obsolescence. The development of new and
    improved products is important to the Company s success in
    all areas of its business;

Challenges and difficulties inherent in product development,
    including the potential inability to successfully continue
    technological innovation, complete clinical trials, obtain
    regulatory approvals in the United States and abroad, gain and
    maintain market approval of products and the possibility of
    encountering infringement claims by competitors with respect to
    patent or other intellectual property rights which can preclude
    or delay commercialization of a product;

Significant litigation adverse to the Company including product
    liability claims, patent infringement claims and antitrust
    claims;

The health care industry has come under increased scrutiny by
    government agencies and state attorneys general and resulting
    investigations and prosecutions carry the risk of significant
    civil and criminal penalties, including debarment from
    government business;

Product efficacy or safety concerns, whether or not based on
    scientific evidence, resulting in product withdrawals, recalls,
    regulatory action on the part of the FDA (or foreign
    counterparts) or declining sales;

The impact of business combinations, including acquisitions and
    divestitures, both internally for the Company and externally in
    the pharmaceutical, medical device and health care industries;
    and

Issuance of new or revised accounting standards by the Financial
    Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange
    Commission.

The foregoing list sets forth many, but not all, of the factors
    that could impact upon the Company s ability to achieve
    results described in any forward-looking statements. Investors
    should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify
    all such factors and should not consider this list to be a
    complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. The
    Company has identified the factors on this list as permitted by
    the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

</EX-99>

